Speaker ' s statement I can now announce the arrangement for the election of the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I declare the Chair vacant yesterday . nomination will close at noon on Tuesday 28 November . nomination form will be available from the Vote Office , Table Office and Public Bill Office . only Members from the conservative party — [ interruption . ] be member go to listen ? some people might want to put their name in . [ interruption . ] only Members from the conservative party may be candidate in this election . if there be more than one candidate , the ballot will take place on Wednesday 29 November between 11 am and 2 . 30 pm in the Aye Lobby . a briefing note with more information will be available from the Vote Office . I also remind member that the private Members ' Bills ballot book be open today in the No Lobby until 6 pm , at which point it will be take to the Public Bill Office and remain open for signature until the rise of the House . the ballot draw will be hold at 9 am tomorrow in Committee Room 15 . oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — Online Fraud what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle online fraud . tackle fraud be a priority for this Government . the Online Safety Act 2023 require regulate company to mitigate the risk pose by fraud and scam on their service . in addition , Ofcom will publish code of practice recommend step for company to take . what will company actually have to do under the term of the Act ? all company in scope of the Act will need to take action to tackle fraud where it be facilitate through user - generate content or via search result . they must take measure to prevent fraudulent content from appear on their platform , and swiftly remove it if it do so . additionally , there will be a duty on the large social medium platform and search engine that will require they to tackle fraudulent advert on their service . I welcome new member to the Front Bench . I thank the Minister for that response . I have hear from numerous constituent who have be victim of online scam where perpetrator ask for bank detail over the phone . what step can the Minister take to make people , especially elderly people — they be the one who come to I — more aware of what to look out for in term of online scam , to ensure that the money that they have earn over their lifetime be not steal ? as I say , there will be a duty on the large social medium platform that will require they to tackle fraudulent advert . that will have a significant impact in prevent a range of online fraud , include romance scam and scam ad . I will also talk to the Economic Secretary to the Treasury on the hon . member ' s behalf , because the Government have a fraud strategy . Telecoms Network Replacement what recent discussion she have have with ( a ) Ofcom and ( b ) telecommunications provider on the plan replacement of the copper wire network . we have regular meeting with Ofcom and telecommunication provider to discuss the migration from analogue to digital , and in due course the retirement of the copper network . Ofcom have set out high - level condition for the gradual deregulation of BT Group ' s copper - base network in the future , but it be too early to determine the process that will trigger the complete deregulation . Ofcom will consider that in the next regulatory review period . last year , some of my constituent in Shetland be without electricity for six day . move to voice over internet , they will have a resilience of one hour . what assurance can the Minister give I that my constituent will not be leave cut off without communication after the copper network be withdraw ? the decision to migrate from the public switch telephone network to voice over internet be one for the industry , but nevertheless we be follow this very carefully . Ofcom have regular discussion , and I , too , have be meet Ofcom . the right hon . Gentleman be right that we need to make it certain that vulnerable consumer be protect . Ofcom will ensure that provider give they back - up in the event of a power outage , and it will be their duty to ensure that that be sufficient . I be all in favour of new infrastructure being roll out , and the replacement of old technology with new one . what discussion have the Minister have with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on how we can ensure that telecom provider use any exist ducting , rather than put up telegraph pole unnecessarily ? I have a great deal of sympathy with my right hon . friend ' s question , as I know that this matter be cause concern for a number of member . we be very keen that unnecessary infrastructure should not be build where existing duct can be use . we have set out regulation on that , and Ofcom oversee it . local authority will be able to make report to Ofcom if existing duct be not be sufficiently use and it be feel that the infrastructure be not necessary . AI - generate Content : Social Media what step her Department be take to tackle harmful AI - generate content on social medium . what step her Department be take to tackle harmful AI - generate content on social medium . the Online Safety Act 2023 , which recently receive Royal Assent , have be design to keep pace with emerge technology . the Act will regulate AI - generate content in much the same way that it do content create by human . it cover AI - generate content share by user with other user , search result generate by AI and AI - generate pornography . in addition , the Act will criminalise the sharing of deepfake intimate image abuse , include when that be ai - generate . may I take this opportunity to welcome the Minister to the Dispatch Box ? I will not embarrass he by call he a friend , but I wish he the good of luck . as the world transition into the new age of AI , the Tories be leave the people of Scotland at risk from harmful AI - generate content and social medium . will the Minister outline why the Scottish Government be block from participate in one of the first major AI safety summit ? I thank the hon . member — I will embarrass she and say that we be friend . however , I respectfully disagree , because the scottish people be represent by the UK Government . Meta , have recognise the threat that unrestricted use of AI could represent in election and democracy , have ban the use of generative AI in its political advert . why do a private company seem to be do more to curb the spread of electoral misinformation than this government ? the Government take the integrity and security of our democratic process very seriously . we will continue to safeguard against future risk , strengthen our resilience and ensure that the regulatory framework be as effective as possible . DSIT support wide cross - Government effort to protect UK democratic process , include through the defend democracy taskforce and election cell , and will be work closely with social medium platform to ensure that the right system be in place to identify and remove harmful material , include deepfake , where it breach platform term of service . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I warmly congratulate my hon . friend on his appointment and welcome he to the Dispatch Box . GCHQ this week say that it expect hostile disruption of the next election through deepfake use AI . be my hon . friend absolutely confident that the Electoral Commission have all the power it need to prevent that , and why be the Government not implement their suggestion in the White Paper to introduce the legislation to empower regulator ? I thank my right hon . friend for his kind remark . as I say , the Government will take this issue incredibly seriously , and I be confident that , through the defend democracy taskforce and election cell , we will be able to do the utmost to protect ourselves from election interference . I offer to meet he to discuss this far and see what else can be do . I too welcome my hon . friend to his role . what discussion have he or his Department have about raise public awareness of the impact that AI will have on society , and increase understanding that not all content , harmful or otherwise , might be what it seem ? I thank my hon . friend for his remark . we have just have a global , lead AI safety summit , which have immense coverage on that and also focus on frontier risk . we have always be clear that we will take a pragmatic , proportionate and contextual approach . with the 28 country plus the European Union who have agree to the Bletchley declaration , there be a great opportunity to use AI for our benefit , but we should also be wary of the risk involve . AI Regulation what step the Government be take to regulate AI . the AI regulation White Paper set out how we will regulate AI through a flexible framework . we have take step to implement our approach , include establish a central AI risk function and the AI Safety Institute . we be engage closely with regulator and their sponsor Government Departments to understand their readiness to regulate AI effectively . this weekend I be disturb by news of a deepfake audio of Sadiq Khan circulate online , clearly manufacture to whip up hate and disinformation . that be cause for grave concern for elect representative . as the National Cyber Security Centre warn yesterday , advance in artificial intelligence will be exploit by " malicious actor " seek to spread disinformation and undermine our democracy , and the technology be already fall into the wrong hand . with election next year , do the Minister recognise the urgent need for bind , not voluntary , regulation of frontier AI ? I share those concern and have be follow the news . it be not just the video at the weekend ; there have be another one , which be about the Leader of the Opposition — that be incredibly concerning . we be work with media organisation and online platform , and look at this closely with the defend democracy taskforce . this week , the Science and Technology Committee have be in Brussels listen to how the EU be progress with its regulation of AI . despite the commitment to introduce legislation in the White Paper , it be not include in the King ' s Speech . why not ? the Government have be clear that we will take a contextual and proportionate response . the key be to understand the risk involve . the Government be not say that there will not be any legislation in the future ; we be say that we need first to understand the risk and then to adapt accordingly . the Secretary of State be in the United States at the moment . what be clear from the Bletchley declaration , and from the conversation that I have with she yesterday , be that we be see as a global leader in this field , and other country be look to we to lead the way . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the Minister of State , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , to his role , and I congratulate the Under - Secretary of State , the hon . member for Meriden ( Saqib Bhatti ) , on his appointment and on the birth of his child . I hope that he be get some sleep in these busy day . AI have potential benefit across the public sector — I have see that in hospital , where it be already deliver huge benefit to patient — but the new safety institute , which will gather together world - class talent , be not be task with find new use to improve our public service . why not ? I thank the hon . member for his question and his kind remark — I can assure he that I be get some sleep . the AI Safety Institute will look at the risk involve . we will be work with the private sector , and we have always be clear that AI bring many benefit and we will ensure that we have a regulatory framework that encourage innovation and growth in the private and public sector . Rural Connectivity what step her Department be take to improve rural connectivity . we have already announce 12 project Gigabit contract to extend gigabit - capable network in rural and hard - to - reach area of the UK . More contract be set to be announce shortly , from the extensive pipeline of procurement . through the share rural network programme , we be also jointly invest over £ 1 billion with the industry to encourage 4 g mobile coverage to 95 % of the UK landmass by the end of 2025 . my Sedgefield constituency have face many trial and tribulation in try to get rural broadband , particularly in Killerby , Summerhouse and Mordon . when I last meet the leader of Building Digital UK , I be encourage about progress . can the Minister reassure I that he also believe that progress be be make ? my hon . friend have be a fantastic champion in campaign for improved connectivity for his constituent . in the north - east as a whole , we have see fast growth of gigabit broadband coverage than in any other region of the UK . none the less , I be encourage to hear of his discussion with BDUK . I hope that a contract will be sign shortly to improve coverage still far , include in the town that he mention . I be happy to keep he update as soon as we be in a position to make further announcement . Northleigh be like many other village in rural Devon in that it have be wait eight year for superfast broadband . there be 51 house in Northleigh that be still wait to be connect . resident and small business be subject to constant email say , " use your voucher , " but they can not because contractor be unaccountable . do the Minister agree with my constituent that the voucher scheme be ineffective and should be scrap ? I do not agree with that . the voucher scheme have deliver gigabit broadband to thousand of constituent up and down the country . at the same time , we be roll out the procurement contract . I know that there be particular challenge in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , but we have already extend gigabit coverage to 78 % of the United Kingdom . I be happy to ask BDUK to discuss with he any specific challenge in his constituency . Net Zero Technologies : University Research what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support university with research and development on net zero technology . I thank my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , for the outstanding contribution he have make to british science and technology . the Government be invest around £ 4 . 2 billion in net zero research and innovation over the current spending review period , include through UK Research and Innovation and other Government Departments . I thank the Minister for that answer . I be incredibly proud of the lead role that Cranfield University in my constituency be play , not just in pioneer research around net zero but in commercialisation of that technology . can the Minister outline what far support we can offer company such as Cranfield Aerospace Solutions in my constituency , to make sure we capture that economic benefit locally in the future ? I share the hon . member ' s pride in the wonderful work do by Cranfield University and Cranfield Aerospace Solutions . we be provide £ 1 . 6 billion of funding for the UK ' s nine catapult , include the High Value Manufacturing Catapult , some of which will go to the Cranfield Digital Aviation Research and Technology Centre . I hope to join the hon . member in visit that wonderful institution . the Minister be new to his task , and a very wide portfolio it be . in the wall - to - wall briefing he be currently get , will he particularly ask for briefing on british science in the Arctic and the Antarctic ? we have 78 university that be lead in that field — we be the fourth large polar scientific research nation . we be a leader in that area , and the Minister need to know all about it . I know that my hon . friend do fantastic work highlight polar research through the all - party parliamentary group for the polar region . I will be happy to champion that work , and to meet he regard that important domain for science . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister to his role . I hope he will share his predecessor ' s enthusiasm for , and commitment to , science . climate change present huge challenge and huge opportunity . labour would champion university cluster and spin - out as engine of sustainable regional growth , but right now great green job - create business such as Low Carbon Materials , a Durham University spin - out , and Airex , an award - win retrofit start - up , be bogge down by tory red tape , with some new product subject to 11 different regulator . will the Minister adopt Labour ' s proposal for a regulatory innovation office to unblock the system , end damaging uncertainty and drive much - need growth ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and look forward to work collaboratively with she . I absolutely share my predecessor ' s determination to drive forward british science , include the all - important work on net zero . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this week , the Secretary of State be build on the momentum from the artificial intelligence summit by meet with key partner and policymaker in the United States , champion Britain ' s lead global role in AI , space , tech , online safety , quantum and other area . it be only two week ago that Britain convene 28 country and the European Union at Bletchley Park to sign the world ' s first agreement on tackle the risk of frontier AI . this follow the historic passage of the Online Safety Act 2023 , which have be view across the world as the gold standard of online child safety legislation . the Secretary of State will be consolidate and accelerate Britain ' s global advantage in these priority area , ensure that the special relationship grow even strong when it come to science and technology , and that the collaboration between our two country — I call Priti Patel . my right hon . friend will know that the plan retirement of the public switch telephone network in 2025 will bring very significant concern across rural community , particularly in Essex — he will be familiar with that . can he provide some assurance about the work that be under way between the Government and telecommunication provider to help improve service in Essex , particularly where we have poor broadband connectivity ? as I suggest early , the retirement of the PSTN land network be a decision for the industry , but the Government have a key role to play in ensure vulnerable consumer be protect through the transition . I have regular meeting with communication provider and Ofcom to discuss progress on that . with regard to Essex , I share my right hon . friend ' s concern — my constituency be the neighbour constituency to her — about the need to ensure that vulnerable constituent be protect . I can assure she that I will continue — order . we have only about seven minute , so the Minister really have to be a bit more cautious in how much time he be use . I call the shadow Minister . the Prime Minister have say that terrorist group could use artificial intelligence to build chemical or biological weapon , but he have still fail to act decisively to regulate AI , even though the US and the EU be both take action . will the Minister tell the House whether the Secretary of State be use her current trip to the US to learn from the Biden Administration , or will our country have to put up with yet more dither and delay ? the Government have always be clear that we will have a contextual and proportionate response to AI . I speak to the Secretary of State yesterday , and it be very clear that the US see we as global leader and will be work with we . Teesside be build on steel and now , thank to Ben Houchen , British Steel be bring steelmaking back to Teesside . green steel will be forge thank to a new £ 1 . 25 billion arc furnace , lead the way in decarbonise our industry and bring highly skilled job . do my hon . friend agree that any business look to invest in green tech and energy in the UK should look to teesside first ? teesside be a wonderful net zero powerhouse , and I commend the green steel project . that be one reason why Teesside be choose to pilot the Innovate UK programme of launchpad , each of which will receive up to £ 7 . 5 million . I call the SNP spokesperson . I welcome the new Front - Bench team to their position . since November 2020 , £ 1 . 1 billion of taxpayer ' money have be invest in the Rosalind Franklin Institute as a mega - lab to defend Britain against future pandemic . can one of the new team explain why the mega - lab have be put up for sale ? the Government be invest record amount in innovation and research in technology , include across the life science sector . I will happily meet the hon . Lady to discuss this matter in more detail . what impact do the Minister think the passage of the Online Safety Act 2023 into law will have on child and family in Warrington South and across the country ? as a father , this issue concern I greatly . the Online Safety Act be the most powerful child protection law in a generation . all in - scope company will need to take robust step to protect child from illegal content and activity on their service . those safety measure will need to protect child from harmful and age - inappropriate content and activity , such as bullying and content that promote eat disorder and self - harm . will the Minister help to co - ordinate a comprehensive analysis of the most successful enterprise zone across the UK and the way in which zone that have not be as successful can maximise the opportunity such zone provide , such as in Coleraine in my constituency ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to flag up the value that successful enterprise zone can bring to local community . I want to see DSIT sector benefit as well , and I be happy to co - ordinate far with colleague in other Departments to explore those opportunity . give the revolution in AI , what step be my hon . friend take to ensure that young people in Carshalton and Wallington have access to the skill they need for the future ? the Government be commit to ensure that the UK have talent that support research and innovation and drive growth . that be why we be invest million in the bright researcher through scholarship , phd placement and fellowship in technology such as artificial intelligence and quantum . what be minister do to ensure that member of this House be not include in disinformation report compile by the counter - disinformation unit in their Department simply for be critical of the Government ? their own Back Benchers be particularly interested to know . I can tell the right hon . Gentleman that the counter - disinformation unit be there to flag up to platform potentially mislead information , but it have no power to have it remove . I can give he an assurance that it do not identify any member of this House or professional journalist . research and development tax credit have be remarkably successful in promote investment by small and medium - sized enterprise . however , the Suffolk chamber of commerce have highlight that the system have grind to a halt due to the sledgehammer approach of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to tackle fraud . will my hon . friend liaise with HMRC and the Treasury to ensure that a more pragmatic approach be adopt ? my hon . friend be a champion of his constituency , and I be happy to speak to the Financial Secretary to the Treasury on that important matter on his behalf . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 15 November . at the start of the year , I make halve inflation my no . 1 priority . today , we have deliver on that commitment . there remain more to do , but this be a strong step forward . also this morning , the Supreme Court give a judgment on the Rwanda plan . it confirm that the principle of remove asylum seeker to a safe third country be lawful . there be further element that it want additional certainty on , and it note that change can be deliver in the future to address those issue . the Government have be work already on a new treaty with Rwanda , and we will finalise that in the light of today ' s judgment . furthermore , if necessary I be prepared to revisit our domestic legal framework . let I assure the House that my commitment to stop the boat be unwavering and my right hon . friend the Home Secretary will be make an oral statement shortly to the House . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , and I shall have further such meeting later today . when the Prime Minister take office , he promise to lead a government mark by " integrity , professionalism and accountability at every level . " what be it about the judgment of David Cameron and his relationship with Lex Greensill , or his lobbying for chinese state interest , that make the Prime Minister consider he a suitable candidate to be Foreign Secretary ? I be delighted that the former Prime Minister have rejoin the Government as Foreign Secretary . he bring unrivalled experience and relationship across the world , and will do a fantastic job champion british interest everywhere he go . tackle illegal immigration be a crucial issue for my constituent , many of whom will be extremely disappointed by this morning ' s judgment from the Supreme Court . be the Prime Minister able to update the House on what that decision mean for the Government ' s plan to tackle illegal immigration ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I know he have champion this issue , and that it matter to his constituent . as I say , the judgment confirm that the principle of remove asylum seeker to a safe third country be lawful . the Government have already be work in advance on a new treaty with Rwanda , which we will finalise in the light of today ' s judgment to address the challenge that be raise . I say again that if it become clear that our domestic legal framework or international convention be still frustrating plan at that point , I be prepared to change our law and revisit those international relationship . the british people expect we to do whatever it take to stop the boat , and that be precisely what this Government will deliver . I call the Leader of the Opposition . the Prime Minister obviously think so little of his own mps that he have have to peel David Cameron away from his seven - year exile in a shepherd ' s hut and make he Foreign Secretary . a few month ago , the Intelligence and Security Committee say that the now Foreign Secretary ' s role in a chinese investment fund may have be — these be its word — " engineer by the chinese state " . I hardly need to remind the Prime Minister of the threat pose by the Chinese Communist party or the intimidation of member of this House . when will he instruct the Foreign Secretary to give full public disclosure of his work for chinese interest ? as I say , I be delighted that the former Prime Minister have rejoin the Government as Foreign Secretary . as an individual with unrivalled experience , he will help Britain to navigate an uncertain world in challenge time . of course , like every other Minister , he will go through the normal process with the independent adviser . the Government ' s position on China be clear : China represent an epoch - define challenge . that be why we have take strong and robust step to protect ourselves against the risk that it pose . we will take no lesson from the Labour party on protect our national security . it have take almost £ 700 , 000 from an alleged chinese agent . [ interruption . ] order . those on the Front Bench just need to calm down . for someone who have spend the last few week complain about recycle bin , it be ironic that the Prime Minister ' s late reset involve recycle the architect of 13 year of Tory failure . this be the Prime Minister who reanimate the career of the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) in order to resuscitate his own , just day after she be sack for a national security breach . be he ashamed that he be so desperate to become Tory leader and so scared to face a vote that he put someone so totally unfit for office in charge of Britain ' s national security ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman mention 13 year , but we should remember what happen at the beginning of those 13 year . it be this party that restore the country ' s financial security after the Labour party leave no money behind . it be a bit rich to take lecture on security from a man who want to make the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) Prime Minister of our country . the right hon . member for Islington North be not even a Labour MP any more . it be a change party with strong leadership . [ interruption . ] order . we have a lot of very important business today with some important vote . I want to get through this speedily . for 13 year , our security have be undermine by this Tory Government , and now we have the most ridiculous , pathetic spectacle of all : the Prime Minister ' s Rwanda scheme , cook up with his national security threat former Home Secretary , have blow up . he be tell over and over again that this would happen , that it would not work and that it be just the late Tory gimmick , but he bet everything on it and now he be totally expose . the central pillar of his Government have crumble beneath he . do he want to apologise to the country for waste £ 140 million of taxpayer ' cash and waste his entire time in office ? obviously the right hon . and learn Gentleman do not hear what I say about our approach to Rwanda . when it come to stop the boat , Rwanda be one part of our plan , which have already deliver a reduction in the number of small boat this year by a third . he talk about apologise and he talk about the right hon . member for Islington North not be a Labour MP now . yes , he be not a Labour MP when he decline 15 different time to say that Hamas be a terrorist organisation this week , which be shameful , but he be a Labour MP — indeed , the right hon . and learn Gentleman serve with he . he tell the country that the right hon . member for Islington North would make " a great Prime Minister " . at that point , the right hon . member for Islington North describe Hamas as friend . do he want to apologise for that now ? [ interruption . ] order . be we serious ? [ hon . member : " yes . " ] oh , I would not challenge . I have to say that our constituent be watch this . they be very concerned about the affair of today and the vote later . a lot of Members wish to speak . those who do not want that to happen , please , go outside and have a conversation there . if you want to bawl and shout , do it elsewhere , but it will not be happen in here today . I be so glad that the Prime Minister agree that this be a change Labour party . while he be waste his time on this gimmick , the asylum backlog have swell to 175 , 000 people . taxpayer be pay £ 8 million a day on hotel bill , and 615 people arrive by small boat last Sunday alone . Plan A have fail . after this session , whether he like it or not , he will have to go back to his office , back to the drawing board and start from scratch . can he assure the british public that he will drop what his former Home Secretary call his " magical thinking " and start treat small boat crossing with the seriousness they deserve ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about a change Labour party — perhaps we will see that this evening . he can not even make his party do the right thing when it come to stand by Israel in the vote later today . he talk about take small boat crossing seriously . he have oppose every single measure that we have take . let I update he on what we have do this year . the number of illegal albanian arrival be down by 90 % . some 20 , 000 people have be return this year . the number of crossing be down by a third . he mention hotel . we be close 50 of they , with money be save for taxpayer . all those measure , by the way , be oppose by the Opposition . what be his plan ? ah , yes , there we have it : a cosy deal with the European Union that would see the UK accept 100 , 000 illegal migrant . he do not want to stop the boat ; he want to welcome more of they . it be very straightforward : the Prime Minister promise that he would stop the boat this year . today be 15 November . he have waste all his time on a gimmick , and now he be absolutely nowhere . will he level with the british public and finally admit that he have fail to deliver on his promise ? this Government have do more to tackle illegal migration than any in the past . let we review : the right hon . and learn Gentleman have be on the wrong side of this issue his entire career . this be a man who describe all immigration law as racist . he say it be a mistake to control immigration , and he have never once in this place vote for strict asylum rule . it be clear that while he might want to listen to the open - border activist , I be side with the british people . if the Prime Minister be confident about his promise , he would have give an answer say that he stand by it and will deliver it by the end of the year . the absence of that answer be absolutely amazing in the circumstance . he have have three reshuffle , a forgotten conference speech , an empty king ' s Speech — he even find time to fanboy Elon Musk — but not one of they have make the slight difference to the life of work people . if we have a pound for every time he have a reset , the cost of living crisis would have be over long ago . the Prime Minister like to think of himself as the man from silicon valley , the tech - savvy Californian , the country ' s first AI pm , and yet his big idea be to keep turn his government on and off at the wall and hope that we see sign of life . be he start to feel that , as somebody once say , he be the future once ? I slightly miss the end of that . I be glad to hear the right hon . and learn Gentleman finally bring up the cost of living — on that , he be right , as it be the no . 1 challenge face family up and down the country — and he talk about deliver on promise , but he fail to recognise that today be the day we deliver on the most important pledge I make : to halve inflation . we be deliver on that commitment and ease the burden for family up and down the country . everything we would see from the Labour party would jeopardise that progress — borrow £ 28 billion a year , undermine our energy security and give in to his union backer with inflation - bust pay rise . that be not a sensible plan ; it would push up mortgage rate , push up inflation and harm work family . all the while , we be go to continue deliver for the country . west midland : economic Growth what assessment he have make of recent trend in economic growth in the west midland . I be sure that my hon . friend will be delighted that the west midland now top regional ranking for foreign direct investment . the Government be invest significantly in the region , include through hundred of million of pound of level - up fund and town fund investment , and introduce a new pilot scheme to help business in the region become more energy efficient . I thank my right hon . friend for that encouraging answer . on behalf of my constituent in Lichfield , may I thank he for have the gut to stop hs2 ? may I ask that , for the area in the north of my constituency where construction be still go on , that happen swiftly , and that in area that will not have hs2 , compensation be give swiftly to those people who be expect it ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his consistent campaigning on this issue . I recall his last question at Prime Minister ' s question on this very topic . I reassure he that we be committed to fair treatment for people affect by the change , while protect taxpayer appropriately . wherever property have be acquire for hs2 , property owner have be fully compensate , and any outstanding case will be settle . we be develop a programme to sell the surplus land on HS2 phase 2 , ensure that it deliver value for money and do not disrupt local property market . I will ensure that the Rail Minister meet he swiftly so that he can speak on behalf of his constituent . I call the leader of the Scottish National party . in 2010 , the then Prime Minister and now Foreign Secretary , David Cameron , say : " People in Gaza be live under constant attack and pressure in an open - air prison . " do the current Prime Minister not agree that if there be not an immediate ceasefire , we all in this Chamber will be watch on as that open - air prison be turn into a graveyard ? no one can deny the suffering that the people in Gaza be undergo at the moment . I speak about this on Monday , and I speak about it consistently with Mahmoud Abbas , the President of the Palestinian Authority . we be do everything we can to get aid into the region and we have repeatedly and consistently call for humanitarian pause , to get aid in and get hostage and foreign national out as quickly as possible . we will continue , as will the Foreign Secretary , to make sure that happen . how much bad do it need to get ? in Gaza , 4 , 609 child be already dead . baby in the neonatal intensive care unit be die because they do not have access to oxygen . for member across the House , this be a question of value and of conscience . do the Prime Minister not agree that should there be a vote on an immediate ceasefire , member across the House should be afford a free vote ? our position as a Government be clear : it be right that Israel be able to defend itself . that be a principle that we support . it have suffer an appalling terrorist attack — Hamas be a terrorist organisation — and it be not just Israel ' s right but its duty to protect its citizen . at the same time , at the United Nations and bilaterally with all our partner we have consistently call for humanitarian pause to ensure that more aid can get in , and hostage and foreign national can get out . that be the right thing to do . we will continue to do everything we can to alleviate the suffering of the palestinian people . I be confident that our effort be already make a big difference on the ground . engagement Kirklees Council have close Dewsbury sport centre ; deliver just 14 % of education , health and care plan within the 20 - week target ; and be unable to deliver a five - year land supply . those be just three of its many failing . now it want to introduce extortionate car parking charge , punish hard - work family and destroy the high street in our town and village . do my right hon . friend agree that labour - run Kirklees Council be no long fit for purpose ? I share my hon . friend ' s disappointment with the labour - run council in Kirklees . just this week we see a Labour councillor suspend for antisemitism . as he say , it have also close Dewsbury sport centre and be propose to increase car parking charge , punish local business and shopper in the run - up to Christmas . clearly , the council be no long fit for purpose . local resident deserve well . last week , member from across the House hear testimony from a young israeli man who lose both his peace - campaign parent in the 7 October attack . this morning , we hear from Palestinians who have lose generation of family in the south of Gaza because of the military attack there . this be a question of humanity and morality . the Prime Minister have an opportunity to lead the call for peace , or to endorse death , violence and destruction . which will he choose ? I think that be an extremely naive and simplistic way of look at the problem . the hon . Member fail to mention the fact that a proscribe terrorist organisation perpetrate an awful attack on over 1 , 000 individual . Israel have every right to defend itself in those circumstance . People in that country would expect nothing less than for it to provide security for its citizen . of course , alongside that , it must abide by international law . we will do everything we can , as I have say , to ensure that aid flow in and alleviate the suffering of the people in Gaza . proposal for a new rail station at Edginswell have be look forward to for a decade , but a final funding gap exist . will some of the fund release by the decision to scrap further phase of HS2 be use to resolve that ? I can assure my hon . friend that our decision on HS2 mean that every region of the country will now receive more transport investment than it would have do before , include the south - west . I be pleased that there be fund to protect the vital rail link between Exeter and Plymouth , that there will be a £ 2 . 8 billion road resurfacing fund , and that his constituent in the south - west will continue to benefit from the £ 2 bus fare until the end of next year . we have previously provide almost £ 8 million to progress the station that he mention . I can reassure he that the Rail Minister will have hear his representation and will continue to update he on the progress be make . David Cameron be the well - pay public face of Lex Greensill . Greensill ' s company be face criminal investigation in Switzerland , Germany and here in the UK . David Cameron message Ministers and official 62 time over Greensill ' s covid loan guarantee . the Treasury Committee call that " a significant lack of judgement " . what do his appointment say about the Prime Minister ' s own judgment ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the Government commission Nigel Boardman to review all those issue and strengthen the system follow those recommendation . I be very confident that this nation will be well represent abroad by the former Prime Minister . he be a Prime Minister with unrivalled experience of foreign affair and will help Britain to navigate an uncertain world in challenge time . in contrast , the Labour party would offer to the country a shadow Foreign Secretary who back the Leader of the Opposition ' s predecessor to be leader , be pay to appear on russian television and even vote against Trident . do that sound like a man who should represent Britain ? the inflation number publish this morning be very welcome , but the tax burden continue to bite . will the Prime Minister agree in principle that the concept of high rate tax be never mean to drag in police sergeant , band 8 nurse , teacher with additional responsibility and other , and that a priority for his Treasury Ministers should be to return fairness to the tax threshold ? I agree with my hon . friend and be pleased that the vast majority of people will continue not to pay the high rate . I share his ambition to cut taxis for work people . right now , inflation be fall and we be stick to our plan , which be deliver a halving of it this year . that be the most effective tax cut we could have deliver for the british people this year , rather than make it bad , as the Labour party would do , by borrow money irresponsibly and in a way that would just drive up inflation and interest rate . but I want to reassure he that I absolutely share his ambition to cut taxis for work people . as we stabilise the economy , that be something both the Chancellor and I be keen to deliver . my son love football , and I understand that the Prime Minister be a big Southampton supporter . after his late Cabinet reshuffle , I wonder whether he can answer I this : since 2010 , have we see more Southampton manager sack or have we see more Housing Ministers come and go ? the answer might help to explain why the Government be fail so miserably on new home ownership . I be pleased that the last figure show that actually we have a record number of first - time buyer . we be deliver 1 million home over this Parliament , while at the same time the Labour party block our plan to unlock 100 , 000 home . when it come to Southampton , I be also pleased that we be on , I think , a seven or eight - game unbeaten run . if a two - state solution be to have a chance , Hamas must be defeat , but there will also first have to be a more enlightened policy of administration in the occupy west bank , mustn ' t there ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . the UK ' s long - stand position on the middle east peace process be very clear : we support a negotiate settlement , lead to a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state in Gaza and the west bank . I speak about this on Monday . both Israelis and Palestinians have a right to live in peace and security . the long - term governance of Gaza and security need to be look at in the round . it be something that I have discuss repeatedly with President Abbas . we agree with the United States that Gaza should ultimately be under the control of the Palestinian Authority . we will continue to support President Abbas and his people to get to that outcome . a new generation of drug , Orkambi , Symkevi and Kaftrio , be transform the life of patient with cystic fibrosis . People who would otherwise be wait for double lung transplant be now live happy , healthy life . however , the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be now say that we can not afford those drug . will the Prime Minister and his new Health Secretary get around the table with NICE and the drug company to ensure that the child who be be bear with cystic fibrosis today be give those life - save drug in the same way as the child who be currently live with cystic fibrosis ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise an important issue , and I will of course ask the Health Secretary to look into it . as she will understand , NICE operate independently of Government , but if there be a conversation that can be have , I will ensure that it take place . in view of the event of the last six week , can the Prime Minister tell the House why the Government have not proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? this Government continue to take strong action against Iran while people in the UK and around the world be under threat from the regime . we have sanction more than 350 iranian individual and entity , include the irgc in its entirety . the National Security Act 2023 implement new measure to protect the british public , include new offence for espionage and foreign interference . while the Government keep the list of proscribe organisation under review , it be , as member will be aware , a long - stand convention that we do not comment on whether a specific organisation be be consider for proscription . the Prime Minister have just say that David Cameron have unprecedented experience , so what would he say be his fine foreign policy achievement ? there be many , many to pick from , but what I would say be that under his leadership this country host what be widely consider to be one of the most successful g8 summit of recent time . it be great to welcome the Prime Minister to Chelmsford early this year , when he launch his antisocial behaviour strategy . he will be pleased to know that the local police have be consistently step up their activity . last week they arrest 24 people for many crime , and last night they take out a major county line gang . will the Prime Minister please join I in congratulate all those in our local police force , and would he like to come back to Chelmsford and go out on patrol , because he would be very welcome ? it be great to visit my right hon . friend and to launch the Government ' s antisocial behaviour plan . I thank she for raise awareness about the important work that her local policing team be do , and I be pleased that they have be empower by our strategy . antisocial behaviour make life miserable for many , which be why the delivery of our plan be so important , and it be make a difference across the country , include in her part of the world . I be also pleased to see that under this government , by the most recent year for which we have datum , crime have decrease by 56 % since 2010 . it be insult that in the week that mark 20 year since the abolition of section 28 , the Prime Minister have appoint a Minister without Portfolio who frequently attack the LGBTQ + community and who , with their so - call war on woke , seek a return to those awful day , deny our human right and attack our very existence . do the Prime Minister agree that he have manifestly and repeatedly fail ? it be time for he to resign and to call a general election . actually , this Government and previous government have a proud record in championing LGBT right . it be this Government who introduce same - sex marriage . we will continue to ensure that everyone in our society can live with tolerance and compassion , and have every opportunity available to they . that be what we have deliver , and that be what we will continue to deliver . last year , through the Homes for Ukraine scheme , my family and I welcome a refugee family to our home . I be proud that this country have always offer refuge to those who need it . however , it be essential that we in this country decide who come here . the Prime Minister have rightly say that he will do whatever it take to stop the small boat and the evil trade around they , but be it not apparent after this morning ' s rule that what it will take be a new law to override the Human Rights Act and cut through the thicket of case law build up by judicial activism , so that we can bring back control of our border and stop the small boat ? it be right that we go through the judgment carefully and properly . as I have say , the Government have already be work in advance on a new treaty with Rwanda to address the concern that be raise previously and be raise by the Supreme Court , which also acknowledge that change can be deliver to address those issue . let I repeat , however , that if it become clear that our domestic legal framework , or indeed international convention , be still frustrating plan after that point , I be prepared to change our law and revisit those international relationship , because we be absolutely committed to stop the boat . I thank the Prime Minister for meet my constituent Noam . it have be 40 day since his mum , Ada Sagi , be kidnap by Hamas on 7 October . we all condemn Hamas ' s action and fight for the return of all hostage . Noam want the language of love to be loud than the language of hate . some 11 , 000 Palestinians have be kill , more than 4 , 000 of they child . international law be important . do the Prime Minister agree that we can support Israel but also call out breach of international law ? I have be consistent from the start that while Israel have a right to defend itself , it be important that it comply with international law . it be a point I have make in every meeting or phone conversation I have have with Prime Minister Netanyahu . it be a privilege to meet the hon . Lady ' s constituent and to hear of the pain they be go through , which I have enormous sympathy for . that be why we be do everything we can to bring hostage home . we be engage intensively in diplomatic activity in the region and work to get foreign national and british national home , and I be pleased to say that well over 200 have now leave Gaza . we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that everyone can safely leave who need to . the Prime Minister know that I stand unapologetically with my steelmaker in Scunthorpe . he know that I believe , as many across this House do , that the UK must retain a virgin steelmaking capability , for strategic reason if nothing else . will he reassure the House that he be personally follow development at British Steel and do all he can to retain what be a vital sovereign capability ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for her local steelworking community . I hope she be reassure by the action that this Government have already take to support steelmaking in our country , reach a landmark agreement with Tata Steel to safeguard thousand of job there , as well as during the pandemic . I agree that it be important for our industrial base , and we will continue to have constructive conversation with all those company to ensure that we can support they in their transition to a clean , green steelmaking future . accord to the British Independent Retailers Association on a matter that affect every constituency across this kingdom , 82 % of retailer do not even bother report physical attack on their staff , and shopkeeper need to sell an additional 12 item to make up for each item that be steal . will the Prime Minister support the effort be make by the association and by many member across the House to ensure that retailer be protect , that theft against they be call out and that they be support in every way possible ? and today , at a meeting in Dining Room C , will he encourage its member from those shop in their effort ? first , I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his work as vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on retail crime . he be absolutely right about the importance of this issue . I work in my mum ' s shop — her pharmacy — grow up , and I understand exactly what he be talk about when small business be the victim of crime . our expectation and our agreement with police force — we do this early this year — be that all shoplifting should be follow up where there be evidence such as CCTV footage and that any violent or abusive behaviour towards shopworker , particularly those who provide a valuable service to the public , be never acceptable . that be why we introduce a statutory aggravate factor for assault on worker who provide a service to the public . I commend my hon . friend for everything he be do on this issue . final question . I call Sir William Cash . will my right hon . friend give the House an assurance that he have make it clear to the new Foreign Secretary , who of course we wish well , that his policy and conduct of EU - relate affair will be consistent with the Government ' s 2019 election manifesto and the referendum and that he be now fully commit to UK parliamentary sovereignty , self - government and democracy in accordance with the Government ' s subsequent legislation ? I be delighted to give my hon . friend that assurance , because this government be seize the opportunity of Brexit , aid by his advice and support . we pass the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 to ensure that we can regulate our growth industry more competitively , and we have sign trade deal with the fast grow region across the world include , most recently , the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . it be this Government who be deliver the benefit of Brexit to every part of our country , and long may that continue . Illegal Immigration with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the Government ' s plan for end illegal immigration . the Supreme Court have today uphold the judgment of the Court of Appeal , mean that we can not yet lawfully remove people to Rwanda . the important thing to note be that today ' s judgment be make on the basis of fact from 15 month ago . the Government , of course , fully respect the Supreme Court , but its judgment do not weaken our resolve to deter people from make these illegal , dangerous and unnecessary journey . this be a lengthy judgment that we now need to digest and reflect upon . we take our obligation to the court very seriously , which be why we have already take action to address a number of point raise by the low court . it be only through break the business model of illegal people trafficker that we can fully take control of our border and save life at sea . this be why the Prime Minister back our deal with Rwanda , pass legislation to deliver it and say , last December , that other country would follow our lead . we have now see that other country be , indeed , also explore third - country model to address illegal immigration , include Austria , Germany and Denmark . Italy ' s deal with Albania be a new and innovative model for process asylum claim . nothing in today ' s Supreme Court judgment dim our commitment . the Supreme Court say there be issue with Rwanda ' s asylum system that could create the possibility of someone be return to a country where they could face persecution . I be strike by the Court ' s remark about the risk of refoulement : " the structural change and capacity - building need to eliminate that risk may be deliver in the future , but they be not show to be in place at the time when the lawfulness of the policy have to be consider in these proceeding . " the judgment be make reference to the early proceeding . we have a plan to provide exactly that certainty . we anticipate this judgment as a possible result and , for the last few month , have be work on a plan to provide the certainty that the Court demand . we have be work with Rwanda to build capacity and to amend our agreement to make it clear that those send there can not be send to any country other than the UK . our intention be to upgrade our agreement to a treaty as soon as possible , which will make it absolutely clear to our court and to Strasbourg that the risk lay out by the Court today have be respond to , will be consistent with international law and will ensure that Parliament be able to scrutinise it . the Prime Minister have say that , if our domestic legal framework frustrate our plan , he be prepared to change our law , but we be not go to put forward proposal simply to manufacture an unnecessary row for political gain . we have a plan to deliver the Rwanda deal — [ interruption . ] opposition member be not listen , but they might want to listen to this . we have a plan to deliver the Rwanda deal and we will do whatever it take to stop the boat . illegal immigration be a huge global challenge , and that challenge be grow . it be a topic that I regularly raise with country across Europe and around the wide world in my former role as Foreign Secretary . across Europe , monthly illegal migrant number be trend upwards , with an exception : our number be fall . illegal immigration be dangerous , it undermine the law of our country , and it be unfair on those who come here legally and on the british people who play by the rule . it must and it will stop . this a wonderful country . I recognise that because I have just have the chance to see it as other see it from overseas . inevitably , people aspire to come here . but more people come here illegally be not fair on those struggle to get gp appointment , housing or access to school , or on those people live near to asylum hotel . the impact be feel by some of the poor in our society and we have a duty to address their concern . while the Conservative Government have take action to protect our country , the Labour party have vote time and again — more than 80 time — not to protect our border . Rwanda be ready and willing to help . the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees operate its own refugee scheme in Rwanda . Rwanda be ready to receive thousand of people , process their claim , give they excellent care and then support they to integrate in Rwanda ; this be an african country full of potential and promise . we have a future - focused , mutually beneficial partnership with it , and we have a plan to deliver it . the Rwanda plan have only ever be one tool in our toolbox . we have a plan to drive down number and our plan be work . before the Prime Minister launch his 10 - point plan last December , the number of people enter the UK illegally in small boat have more than quadruple , but while illegal migration in the rest of Europe continue to rise , crossing to the UK be now down by a third . we be tackle illegal immigration at every stage of the journey of a would - be illegal migrant , and our plan be work . last year , the Prime Minister sign the large ever small boat deal with France . we have expand our joint intelligence cell to deepen intelligence sharing and dismantle the criminal gang . cut - edge surveillance technology be in play , and we have beef up security infrastructure , such as more CCTV , at key border crossing point along the channel . we have ensure that more french official and officer patrol french beach , and they be work closely with UK staff . so far in 2023 , nearly 22 , 000 crossing attempt have be prevent because of the close co - ordination between british and french official . that mean less money that the british taxpayer have to spend on hotel , less profit for the criminal gang and few people to process . it send a clear message to the gang and to those who want to cross that we will stop they . as Foreign Secretary , I work closely with my right hon . friend the Immigration Minister to agree a new deal with Albania , with well datum sharing , close operational working and financial support . in response to the work that he and I do , the number of albanian small boat arrival have fall by 90 % — I repeat that figure of 90 % — so far during 2023 , and we have return more than 4 , 600 people in just 10 month . we want to ensure that it be hard to get into one of those boat in the first place , include by reduce the supply of boat . we be target the movement of those good , such as dinghy and engine that be use to facilitate the crossing , in order to undermine a key component of the smuggler ’ business model . those who do make it through will not be able to stay . we have expedite return arrangement with country include France , Albania , Turkey and Italy . we have increase the number of illegal work raid by almost 70 % . we have cut the asylum legacy backlog by more than 59 , 000 case . we have free up hundred of hotel bed with the use of alternative site . we have announce the closure of the first 50 asylum hotel and we have pass the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , the most ambitious immigration legislation in decade , which make clear that the only route to asylum in the UK be via one of the safe and legal route we have put in place . anyone who come to the UK illegally will not be able to stay . they will be remove either to their home country , if it be safe , or to a safe third country , if it be not . Mr Speaker , I can assure you that our commitment to end illegal immigration be unwavering . we be a positive outlier in Europe . our effort be work . small boat crossing be down . our decision making be fast . we be remove those with no right to be here , and take action against those who be work illegally . we have do deal with multiple country and will continue to do so . arrival down , decision fast , return up — we be get on with the job and will do whatever it take to deliver on our commitment to stop the boat . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I welcome the new Home Secretary to his post . he be the eighth Conservative Home Secretary in eight year — and what a mess he have inherit . the Supreme Court ' s conclusion today be damn . it expose the complete failure of the Prime Minister ' s flagship Rwanda policy , of his judgment in make it the central part of his policy and of the Conservatives in get the most basic grip on the boat and asylum chaos . there be no serious plan on the dangerous boat crossing that be undermine our border security and put life at risk , the end of which we all want to see . there be no serious plan to sort out the chaos in the asylum system , include end place people in costly asylum hotel because of the soar backlog . there be a readiness to spend more than £ 140 million of taxpayer ' money on this plan — money we can not get back now that the policy have totally fail . that add to the Prime Minister ' s disastrous judgment in appoint and back the previous Home Secretary , who be unfit for the job . I do not agree with pretty much anything the Home Secretary ' s predecessor ever say , but she be right in this message to the Prime Minister : " if we lose in the Supreme Court … you will have waste a year and an Act of Parliament , only to arrive back at square one … your magical thinking … have mean you have fail to prepare any sort of credible ' plan b ' . " waste time , waste money and let the country down : that be the Conservatives ' record . the Supreme Court judgment outline a catalogue of problem with the policy , but Ministers know all about they . when it be first announce 18 month ago , I raise in the House the problem with the Israel - Rwanda deal . minister be warn many time about failure and weakness in the Rwanda asylum system , but they just press on . even if the plan have be find lawful today , they have admit it would have cover only a few hundred people anyway — at a time when 100 , 000 people apply for asylum in the UK last year , on the conservative watch — and that it would have cost about twice as much per person as decide case in the UK . the truth be the Government have waste not just one but five year by fail to deal with the situation . five year ago there be just a few hundred people cross in boat , but they let criminal gang take hold along the channel . they let asylum decision collapse , so the backlog soar and there be now 20 % more people in asylum hotel than there be when the Prime Minister promise to end that . will the Home Secretary tell we how much in total the Government have spend on the fail Rwanda plan so far ? the House have a right to know . he say he want a new treaty . how much more will that cost ? despite his optimism , the Supreme Court judgment say " the rwandan government indicate that the contemplated arrangement might not be straightforward to implement in practice … the provision of resource do not mean that the problem which we have describe can be resolve in the short term . " again , we have more of the magical thinking . what do this mean for the Prime Minister ' s flagship legislation ? he boast about pass it only yesterday , but the Government have not actually commence the central clause of the law , because without Rwanda — and , frankly , even with Rwanda — the policy do not work and will just lead to an endless , ever - increase permanent backlog . will the Secretary of State confirm now that he will not be implement the central tenet of that law this year ? will he also confirm that this mean that the Prime Minister ' s pledge to introduce the new law to stop the boat and end hotel use will all be break this year ? why will the Home Secretary not put that money into a proper plan to tackle the boat ? I do not believe that he ever believe in the Rwanda plan . he distance himself from it and his predecessor ' s language on it . he may even , on occasion , have privately call it batshit . but he and I agree that we need action to stop the boat crossing that be undermine border security and put life at risk . we need a properly control and manage system for asylum and refugee . let we concentrate instead on the thing that can work . we support the work with France along the northern coast ; we want it to go far . we support the work with Albania and with other country across Europe to tackle the gang , but it be far , far too weak . we need a proper , comprehensive and massively scale - up plan to go after the criminal gang , a proper system to clear the backlog , and a proper return unit in place so that we can end hotel use . instead of that cost go up from £ 6 million to £ 8 million a day on his watch , let we end hotel use and save the taxpayer £ 2 billion . that should be common ground , so I suggest that he stop waste taxpayer ' money on more fail scheme , that he ditch the magical thinking and the culture war of his predecessor and that he ditch the gimmick and finally get a grip . one of the danger of write a critique of Government policy before read the fact lay out in a statement be that the statement make the critique obsolete . the right hon . Lady talk about hotel usage , which I remind the House be come down . she talk about small boat arrival in the UK , which I remind the House be come down . she talk about form close working relationship with our european partner , which I remind the House we be already do . in response to the right hon . Lady ' s various question , I have write here , " do Labour have a plan ? " [ interruption . ] if those on the Labour Benches could curb their enthusiasm and listen to what I be about to say next , they would hear that I be go to concede that it be clear that they do have a plan . their plan — their great idea — be to do what the Government be already do , which be buck the european trend . when other country be see 30 % , 40 % , 50 % , 60 % , 70 % or 100 % increase in their illegal arrival , we be see a reduction of one third in ours , buck the trend . we have always say that Rwanda , and the deterrent effect of the Rwanda plan , be an important tool in our toolbox ; we have never claim that it be the only one . we have always pursue a range of option — when I say " we " , I mean my right hon . friend the Immigration Minister , with I watch he from King Charles Street , although the collective " we " be appropriate here — and , as I set out in my statement , those activity be have an effect . my final point be that the mask have slip . the glee that I detect from those on the Opposition Benches for this temporary setback on the delivery of our plan display what we on the Government Benches know to be true : they do not want migration control to work . they do not want to take control of our border ; they would rather delegate it to anybody else — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the Home Secretary . I do not need those on the Front Bench — [ interruption . ] you may pull face , but the bottom line be that I want some quiet to hear what be be say . our constituent at home want to hear that as well , but when you be chuntere so loudly , they can not do so . indeed , Mr Speaker . may I welcome my right hon . friend to his new position ? the Home Office be a great Department of State and I hope that he enjoy his time there as much as I enjoy my time as Home Secretary . will he confirm that the judgment that the Supreme Court make today be not contingent on the european convention on human right ? indeed , the fundamental judgment be make regardless of the echr . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend and predecessor . she be a fantastic and long - serve Home Secretary , and I intend to compete with she on both of those metric . she make an incredibly important point . we look closely at the judgment and find that it draw our attention to work that we can do , work with our partner in Rwanda , to address the Supreme Court ' s concern about people be return to unsafe country . that be where we will address our focus , because that will be the pathway to ensure that Rwanda remain a key element of our basket of response to illegal migration . I call the SNP spokesperson . we on the SNP Benches be very glad to see the unanimous decision of the Supreme Court today . it really be quite ridiculous for the new Home Secretary to come to the House today to tell we that his predecessor ' s dream will never die . it have go . give it up ! do something else instead ! before the extremist on his own Benches start to blame the echr , the Supreme Court judge , Lord Reed , be very clear that this be not just about the ECHR , but about the refugee convention , the UN convention against torture and other cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment , and the international covenant on civil and political right as well as our own domestic legislation . the Supreme Court make it clear that Rwanda be not a safe country . at the heart of the judgment today be the principle of non - refoulement , which mean that people must not be send back into harm ' s way . the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees provide compelling evidence of Rwanda do so , even after it sign the memorandum of understanding with the UK , as well as in its early deal with Israel . the UNHCR point out that it have reject claim from country such as Syria , Yemen and Afghanistan . it be absolutely ludicrous that those claim could be reject . it also point to the lack of integrity in Rwanda ' s own system . it be a serious problem and one that the Home Secretary claim today that he want to fix , but he should focus his intention instead on fix the multiple failing of his own Department . what now for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and for the people who will now be leave in immigration limbo without any recourse to claim asylum ? this incompetent Tory Government can not yeet they back to Rwanda and they will not process their claim , so what will happen to that group of people ? the solution lie not in puncture the market in rubber dinghy , but in create function safe and legal route . in the first half of the year , the large group in small boat be Afghans . that be proof positive that the scheme that the Government claim exist be just not work . many people make these dangerous journey because they have no other option . that remain the reality whoever the Home Secretary be , so I ask the right hon . Gentleman when he will stop waste public money chase fantasy . at least £ 1 . 4 million have be spend just on the legal challenge , never mind the rest of this incompetent scheme . when will he create a system that treat the most vulnerable in the world with the dignity and respect that they be due to rebuild their life here in the UK ? the Immigration Minister have not even give Glasgow ' s mps the meeting that he promise to discuss the people that the Government be about to make homeless through their bulk processing . if the Home Secretary will not take seriously his responsibility on immigration and on refugee , will he at least allow Scotland to have the right to do so , because we want to welcome people to our world ? on the hon . Lady ' s final point , if Scotland , or rather the Scottish Government — not the scottish people — want to be more generous in practical term to people seek refuge here , they can do so . in my experience , they choose not to . with regard to the work that we be do , I make clear in my statement the various work strand that we be do in close co - operation with country around the world to address all element of the illegal migration pipeline , include interrupt the logistic around this evil practice , and it be work . I draw the hon . Lady ' s attention to the fact that many other country around Europe — country that we have close working relationship with — be see a significant increase in their illegal arrival , in stark contrast to the reduction we be see in the UK . the hon . Lady talk about a number of thing , but ultimately I be draw to the remark that the Court make about refoulement : " the structural change and capacity - building need to eliminate that risk may be deliver in the future " . that be exactly what we be seek to address . I welcome my right hon . friend and Essex neighbour to the great position of Home Secretary , and wish he well in all his endeavour on this incredibly difficult issue . he touch on the Supreme Court ' s decision and its comment on refoulement . today ' s judgment be clear on that , but the issue be not new ; it be raise early this year in the Court of Appeal . if I may say so , Ministers have the opportunity to address some of the practical measure prior to today ' s judgment . I urge the Home Secretary to take every necessary step and measure to work with the Government of Rwanda on the practical , operational delivery of the migration and economic development partnership to give all those assurance . that partnership be clearly integral to ensure that we break the business model and stop the evil trade of people smuggle . address that principle will go a long way towards bring in this essential deterrent in the illegal migration battle . my long - stand friend and predecessor be absolutely right . we will break the people - smuggle gang . we will undermine their business model . we will pursue all the various workstream that my right hon . friend will be familiar with from her time in this fantastic office . in parallel , just as she suggest , we will work — indeed , we be already work — to address the issue raise by judge in the low court to ensure that we can prove what they need to see , which be that we will remove the risk of refoulement . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his new role . this morning at the Home Affairs Committee , David Neal , the independent chief inspector of border and immigration , tell we that the big challenge face the Home Office be be professional , maintain objectivity , be fair and understand human right . the inspector also say that what keep he up at night be the question of who be protect our border and whether they be do so to the good of our collective ability . could the Home Secretary tell we whether today ' s rule on Rwanda prove or disprove Mr Neal ' s concern ? the Government be responsible for the protection of this country , and it be a role and responsibility that we take incredibly seriously . it be the primary function of government . in this statement , and in the other statement I intend to make , and which Ministers from the Department will make from the Dispatch Box , we will show the House and the country that Conservative Members take that responsibility incredibly seriously , and we will take whatever action be necessary to ensure the protection of the people and the border of this country . it would be helpful , frankly , if the Labour party would break the habit seemingly of a lifetime and once in a while vote to support the action that we take . as well as welcome my right hon . friend most warmly to this post — a post in which his and my former London Assembly constituent in Bexley and Bromley be massively proud to see he — I congratulate he on the tone and manner of his statement . it be right that , as a rule - of - law - abide country , we respect the decision of the court however they go . the Supreme Court be ask a legal question and it give a legal answer . do he agree that it be clear that the decision be essentially fact - specific , apply to well - establish legal principle , and the solution be , first , to look at how those fact can be rectify to make this compliant ? my long - stand friend and former south - east London representative be absolutely right . their lordship tell we what we need to do to address their concern . we intend to do what they say need to be do . we will address their concern , operationalise this plan , break the business model , and stop the boat . two per cent of those claim asylum in this country be lgbtqi + people flee country where just be themselves can be a death sentence . do the Home Secretary agree with his predecessor that they be pretend ? if the right hon . Gentleman want to know my view on thing , he can ask I for my view on thing , rather than ask I to comment on other people ' s view . I welcome the new Home Secretary to his place and share his disappointment at this morning ' s judgment . as we have hear , the Supreme Court focus on the principle of non - refoulement . hopefully that can be address in a new treaty . perhaps it will be make more robust if we can work jointly with other european partner who have express an interest in a Rwanda - type scheme . why , however , be this not consider in the original Rwanda treaty , and which Law Officer be responsible for give legal advice to the Home Office about how it might stand up to challenge in the court ? my hon . friend know that Government legal advice be for inform the decision - making of Ministers . it be not appropriate to discuss Government legal advice at the Dispatch Box , and we will not do so — he know that . we always prepare for a range of eventuality , as I say in my statement . we recognise that this be one of the decision that might come from the Court . we listen carefully to the statement make by the judge in the low court , and we have already start to take action in response to the concern that they have raise . I , too , welcome the new Home Secretary to the Dispatch Box . he have a difficult job , but it be in everyone ' s interest that it be do well . I also welcome the part of his statement in which he say , " we be not go to put forward proposal simply to manufacture an unnecessary row for short - term political gain . " that much at least will be a refreshing change , but he should be aware that his hon . friend the Member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , the deputy chairman of the Conservative party , be report as have tell ITV that the Prime Minister should " ignore the law " follow the Supreme Court ' s decision . will the Home Secretary dissociate himself from those comment ? this country pride itself on be a law - abide country , so to hear the Government ' s position on thing , listen to the statement of Government Ministers . I have make it clear that we respect the judgment . we listen carefully to the comment make by their lordship and the low court . as I say , we be already respond to the comment that they make to ensure that the action we take , when the Rwanda scheme be operationalise , be in strict accordance with international law . will the Home Secretary explain to those of we who be not expert in this area why it be that people who arrive illegally on our shore from a safe nearby country can not immediately be return to that safe nearby country ? clearly it would be in breach of certain law , so can he set out , perhaps in a statement , what those law might be ? receive country have to consent . that be the nub of the issue . that be why it be so important that Ministers in the Department , particularly the Immigration Minister , have spend so much time work with those country from which we have traditionally receive illegal migration , include France and other — most notably , in term of the statistic , Albania , with which we have develop an excellent work relationship . I will claim a bit of credit here , because my right hon . friend the Immigration Minister and I form something of a tag team with the Government in Tirana , and we be see the success that come from pragmatic but determined relationship with european partner and other . I pay tribute to the Immigration Minister for that work . I also warmly welcome the Home Secretary to his post , not least because I know people in the Foreign Office who be rather sad to see he go . however , let I try this question again : what do he think about the 2 % of people who claim asylum on the basis of their sexuality because they face massive persecution and death threat in their own country ? do he think they be pretend to be lesbian , gay or bisexual ? if he do , can he provide evidence for that ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we can not prove a negative . that be a fallacy . I thank he for his kind word about my time as Foreign Secretary ; he will know , since he clearly have a mole inside my old organisation , how passionately I pursue the right of LGBT people around the world , include have some very difficult conversation where necessary . I absolutely want to make sure that those people be protect , but we should also recognise that bad people hide among good people and sometimes people lie to take advantage of the good will of other . it be nonsense to suggest that everybody who claim to be suffer persecution because of their sexuality be lie , and I would certainly never say that , but we need to ensure that people be not attempt to abuse the process , as we do with any process or system , because that limit our ability to help those who genuinely be in need . I recognise that LGBT people do face genuine persecution around the world , and we want to support and help they . much of the Supreme Court ' s judgment today be encouraging , with a high court endorse yet again the principle of what we be look to do with Rwanda . as be touch on early , much of the decision turn on the fact , particularly those relate to refoulement — that is , the risk that those transfer to Rwanda might be return to a country where they would face persecution . may I test my right hon . friend on what work he be do , look at the decision - make capability of the Home Office , to help Rwanda to build up its own decision - make capability , and how our judiciary might work with Rwanda ' s judiciary to address some of the Supreme Court ' s point in that area ? I pay tribute to my right hon . friend — [ interruption . ] I mean to say my hon . friend , although he deserve to be my right hon . friend . I know that he do a lot of the work on this very subject , and his question go to the heart of how we operationalise the Rwanda plan . their lordship set out exactly the point he raise about capacity building and professionalise Rwanda ' s system . I have have exchange this morning with my rwandan opposite number , who I have meet before . the Rwandans be keen to build and strengthen their institutional structure , and they see we as a key partner in achieve that . together we will work to operationalise this plan . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work he do on this very issue . the Supreme Court ' s judgment have put pay to the lazy , ill - inform argument that it be the european convention on human right , and only the european convention on human right , that be block this Government on asylum and immigration . this Government have spend two year formulate a policy that have prove incompatible with a multitude of international treaty to which the UK be sign up and with numerous provision of our domestic law . the Supreme Court be very clear about that . my question for the Home Secretary be this : when be he go to explain to his Back Benchers that the UK Government ' s response to this judgment must be to produce a humane asylum policy that work , not to try to overcome vital check and balance of the rule of law and human right law that stymie bad policy decision and protect human right ? our immigration policy , as lay out in the figure I run through in my statement , be have the positive effect that we commit to . we be bring down small boat number , the need for hotel place and so on . I say in my statement that their lordship have set out the route to successfully operationalise the Rwanda scheme , through address those concern about refoulement . we will focus on what we need to achieve to unlock that . we recognise that this be a constant battle against criminal and , as with all constant battle against criminal , we focus on what be effective and right . their lordship set out exactly what that be , and that be what we will focus on . I genuinely welcome my right hon . friend to his place at the Dispatch Box . speak softly and carry a big stick be always a very good way of behaving — no reference intend . I fully agree with all his intention and the direction of travel in which he want to go to settle this issue , in term of proper organisation such that concern be deal with in the court . do he not agree that those who greet this judgment with glee need to remember that people be die in the channel try to cross in the boat ? will the Home Secretary ask our right hon . and learn Friend the Attorney General to come to the Dispatch Box in due course to reflect on the judgment ? it appear to I that it be much wide than the migration judgment , because we be now link directly to applicability in UK law agreement that be make with the UN that be never bind into UK law . whether one want it or not , that widen the whole issue of what become justiciable , and I would be grateful if she would come to the House at some point and deal with that . I thank my right hon . friend for his kind word . my focus in this role be make sure that the Department be highly effective in protect the british people and protect our border . this be not about try to look tough ; it be about try to deliver for the british people , and that will be my relentless focus . my right hon . and learn Friend the Attorney General remind I that her advice , like that of all very good in - house lawyer , be limit to the client , which be his Majesty ' s Government . however , I have no doubt I could persuade she to meet my right hon . friend on a private basis . I welcome the Home Secretary to his new role . I be sure he would want to join I in express gratitude to all those in our public service who come here as refugee and make such a fantastic contribution to our country . at the heart of this case be a series of asylum seeker , one of whom I know have be confirm as a victim of trafficking . he have be stick in an asylum hotel since May 2022 . as yet , the Government have not even begin to look at his claim for asylum . can the Home Secretary tell we when his Department will begin to process the claim of those people and get on with find out whether they be illegal asylum seeker ? or be he just go to continue with the charade that he can make Rwanda workable ? I do not have the detail of the individual case that the hon . Lady raise , so I can not comment on the specific , but I remind she and the House that , as part of the Prime Minister ' s 10 - point plan , eliminate that historic backlog of case file be a commitment . at the start of this process , the backlog stand at 91 , 000 case ; it have now be reduce to — few than 30 , 000 . few than 30 , 000 . so , we be deliver on our commitment to work through that backlog of case . it be one of the area where we make a commitment , we be deliver on it , and we will pursue all the element of our plan . rise — order . I urge colleague to be brief in their question so that the Home Secretary can be brief in return . we have a very pack agenda today and I want to make every effort to get everyone in . I add my congratulation to the Home Secretary on his new role . it seem to I that the key word be " time " . we can not keep relitigate this question to achieve what seem an ever - move target in what the court want we to achieve . our constituent send we here with a very clear message : sort the small boat issue . Parliament have pass legislation to sort the issue . can my right hon . friend be specific about the point at which the attempt by the Government to recondition the agreement with Rwanda into treaty form will have elapse , and a " notwithstanding " clause , of the kind that my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) have set out , will become the only tool by which we can ensure that the will of this House take effect ? we can not allow this cycle to continue indefinitely . order . I remind the House that I do just say " be brief . " I listen carefully to my right hon . friend ' s comment . we be absolutely determined to maintain the deterrent effect of the Rwanda scheme . to an extent , it be already demonstrate utility by the fact that we know — anecdotally , so I will not over - interpret these figure — that the fear of it as part of our arsenal be already have a deterrent effect , which be exactly what it be design to do . national Governments can not just vote themselves out of international commitment . I recognise , as a former Foreign Secretary , that they be incredibly powerful tool as we try to do good around the wide world . I give my right hon . friend the commitment that we remain relentlessly focused on ensure that we continue to drive down the small boat crossing use the full range of capability at our disposal . the Home Secretary and the Government be right to prioritise end illegal migration . by my count , he speak six time in his statement about have " a plan " ; the only word he leave out be " cunning " , because his plan seem to be as workable , effective and chaotic as Baldrick ' s in " Blackadder " . that be no laugh matter , because while the plan be not work , there be still pressure on our infrastructure , there be still criminal gang profit from people ' s misery , and people who use legal route be be disadvantaged . will the Home Secretary give we the commitment that , if the European Court of Human Rights continue to be a barrier to the will of this House , the Government will take action and ignore the demand of that court ? the right hon . Gentleman know that I have a huge amount of respect for he . one point that I take from the judgment today be that it be not just about the ECHR . their lordship set out a number of international commitment that we have make , but they also set out what we need to do to get the Rwanda plan up and run . that be on a very specific legal point , which we be already in the process of addressing . I respectfully disagree with the right hon . Gentleman , because small boat arrival be down , unlike almost everywhere else in Europe , where they be significantly up . the use of hotel bed space be down because of the arrangement that we have put in place . the speed of processing have increase , and the volume of processing of asylum claim have significantly increase . there be always multiple strand to this plan , as set out in the 10 point that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister put forward , and they be have the desire effect . we will just keep work to deliver on our commitment . do my right hon . friend agree that one of the glory of our parliamentary democracy be that government have to obey the law in the same way that individual citizen and corporation do ? do he also agree that those who look carefully at the judgment and think that there be a simple solution , with one lever to pull , will be disappoint ? I shall quote a very wise woman , Giorgia Meloni — who be herself quote an even wise woman , Margaret Thatcher — by say : this be a constant battle . in that battle , both domestically and internationally , one of our real strength , as I see as Foreign Secretary on the international stage , be that when we speak and demand that other country abide by the rule of law , we be take seriously because of our posture on this issue . we will continue to ensure that we abide by the rule of law while simultaneously — we have prove that we can do both — deliver on the commitment that we have make to drive down illegal migration and stop the boat . I welcome the Home Secretary to his new position . one fifth of my constituency casework relate to his Department , and it be a catalogue of human misery . in just one example from the hundred that I could give , the claimant ' s asylum application be make in December 2020 , their interview be in November 2022 , and they be still wait for a decision . the claimant have two young child and have twice attempt suicide . that all come at huge cost to they , the NHS and the police . will the Home Secretary get a grip , stop the " magical thinking " and just fix his Department and the asylum process ? I completely sympathise with the frustration that the hon . Lady ' s constituent must feel , which be reflect in the frustration that I detect in the question . I remind she and the House that we never claim that the Rwanda deal be the totality of our response to this issue . we make a commitment to increase the speed of decision making and to drive down the backlog , and we have demonstrably do that . my constituent be disappoint by the judgment , but will be hearten by the Government ' s commitment to stop the boat . as the Government threaten to take over RAF Scampton , my constituent be impatient and want the boat stop as soon as possible . I understand that the Home Secretary ' s plan be to upgrade the treaty with Rwanda . how long will that take , could it be subject to legal challenge , and if so , how long could those legal challenge take ? I be not able to give certainty on timeline — I wish that I be — but my hon . friend will know that I have a constituency interest in get this right , as RAF Wethersfield in my constituency be be use as an asylum centre . in my conversation with the Minister for Immigration , in a constituency capacity , we discuss the need to drive down the demand for accommodation , be it at Scampton , Wethersfield or anywhere else . the good way of close down Wethersfield and not need Scampton be to stop the boat — [ interruption . ] we be relentlessly focus on do so , as my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) understand , for all the reason that I have set out . I welcome the Home Secretary to his position , and I welcome the court judgment this morning . I notice in the Home Secretary ' s statement a complete lack of empathy as to why people seek asylum in the first place — why people risk all , risk their life , risk everything , to try to cross a dangerous channel to get to what they hope will be a place of safety . he be right to confirm that there be a massive global rise in the number of refugee . should all government not work together to address the cause of that — poverty , war , human right abuse and all of those issue ? will he confirm that this country will not walk away from the important — although not perfect — advance make over the past decade by the European Court of Human Rights in improve human right across Europe , include in this country ? the right hon . Gentleman tempt I to refer back to my previous role as Foreign Secretary . I can assure he and the House that a huge part of the work that be do by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be on exactly those issue : address climate change so that rural farmer in the develop world have crop that they can grow , sell and eat , and reduce the risk of conflict and persecution . we be address those driver , but I have to say to the right hon . Gentleman that the idea that we can somehow uninvent illegal migration be naive beyond belief . we also have to address the fact that people be abuse by criminal : they be use as a product to smuggle , and we have to break the business model of the people smuggler , as well as address the issue that drive people away from the country from which they originate . I add my voice to the general welcome to my right hon . friend . he have tell the House that his Department have anticipate the decision of the Supreme Court that be announce today . that be the case , can he tell the House whether he have make an assessment of whether legislation will be necessary to remedy the problem that have be identify ? if so , when do he anticipate be in a position to introduce that legislation ? I can assure my right hon . friend that as a thoughtful and proactive Department , the Home Office look seriously at the range of potential outcome from the judgment . I can not claim credit for that work , because much of it be do before my arrival . we have already set in place the work to turn the memorandum of understanding into a treaty , thereby address some of the concern of their lordship , and the Prime Minister and I have both make it clear that if there need to be domestic legislative work to ensure that we resolve this , we be unafraid of put legislation forward . I know from my recent visit to Colfe ' s School that they will welcome their former pupil to his new role , as I do . I urge he to resist call from people on his own Benches to remove we from the european convention on human right . if we be outside that convention , a serious criminal or someone who mean we harm — such as a terrorist , or someone suspect of terrorism — who seek to hide overseas could legitimately claim that their human right could be violate if they be extradite back to the UK . how be that take back control of our border ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . I will take the opportunity to go back to my old school and get their congratulation directly at some point . of course , I will let the hon . Gentleman know that I will be treading on his hallowed turf . the hon . Gentleman invite I to be distract , but I refuse to be distract : I will focus on what we need to do to achieve this policy . in their judgment , their lordship set out the route to operationalise the Rwanda plan , and I will focus on what they have tell we will resolve the stick point . there be much in the judgment to be welcome , include all the element about the fundamental soundness of the policy . we will focus on the thing that will unlock the operationalisation of the plan . how long will the Rwanda treaty take to get through ? how long will it take to have the court case and the judgment , and have the whole thing crawl over again by human right lawyer ? meanwhile , my right hon . friend be a victim of our failure to stop the boat : he have Wethersfield in his constituency , as I have RAF Scampton in mine . he be a thoroughly nice chap , and I think that he feel my pain . therefore , once the court case over Scampton be decide in the next week or two , whatever the result , will he meet I so that we can work together to get up to £ 300 million - worth of level up at Scampton ? I be always delighted to meet my right hon . friend . he will know , of course , that I be now in a position where I have to be careful about the commitment I make , certainly about RAF Wethersfield . I do not intend to abuse my position as Home Secretary , but I be absolutely committed to drive down the need for RAF Scampton and RAF Wethersfield , just as we have drive down the need for hotel accommodation . I be absolutely committed to that , but of course I will meet my right hon . friend . we need to speed up if we be to get everybody in . I warmly welcome the Home Secretary to his new role . the UK be absolutely entitle to create bespoke policy , and he refer to his constructive work with Albania , but do he understand — unlike his predecessor — that policy must be compatible with fact and the law , and that it should focus on the chaotic processing he have inherit and on fund the public service that he say be under pressure ? can I confirm that he acknowledge that the ECHR be a fundamental cornerstone of the Good Friday agreement , and that abandon it would not be compatible with the Government ' s commitment to Northern Ireland ? once again , the hon . Lady be ask I to comment on something in parallel to the thing that I have set out . my commitment to she and the House be that we will focus on the thing that will unlock this strand of our work . I can not give she — or indeed anyone else in the House — guarantee about timescale , but we be already be effective on processing , on drive down the need for hotel accommodation and on speed up decision making . all those thing be part of the basket of activity that be help we be a positive outlier compare with our european partner . there be a lot of tinker go on here , but the real problem be parliamentary sovereignty . the rule of law , which my right hon . Friend refer to , be at the heart of this issue . if the law be clear and express , and use a " notwithstanding " provision , as I propose in an amendment a few year ago , it will deal with all these matter . if I may make a further point before the Attorney General jump in , if we get the law right , we can then deal with what be effectively an international problem , while distinguish between economic illegal migrant and proper refugee . I would caution the House against grasp for silver - bullet solution . sometimes , the most effective government policy be just focus and graft . I assure the House that the Home Office , and the Ministers and official within it , will be relentlessly focus on the daily work that need to be do to address this issue . of course we will look at what change we need to make to operationalise the Rwanda scheme , but I urge people against grasp for silver - bullet solution , which be rarely effective . the Rwanda scheme be callous , inhumane and ineffective ; one might say the same about the former Home Secretary . that be why I welcome the new Home Secretary to his post , on the ground that he could not possibly be any bad . I hope that he will consider the ethical dimension of this issue , since the Court have just rule that Rwanda be not a safe country . even if he do not , do he not agree that the scheme be simply not workable ? it be not a good use of money , and it will take a huge amount of effort to get to a place where anyone be send to Rwanda . be there not much well way of pursue this issue and destroy the small boat model ? again , it be easy to criticise — it be easy to criticise ineffectually . sadly , that be what I hear from Opposition Members far too often : no credible alternative , just criticism . the point be that we be pursue a number of workstream that be already prove effective , which be why our number be go down at a time when all our european partner be see illegal arrival go up . we will continue work on multiple strand and we will continue pursue the Rwanda plan . when Labour member finally decide to vote for something rather than against something , we will listen , but that day have not happen yet , and I do not expect it to happen any time soon . we must be brief . I warmly welcome the tone and content of my right hon . friend ' s statement . do he agree that in addition to the commitment to the ECHR , which be very much treasure by the settle refugee community in my constituency , this be an opportunity to reinvigorate the work with France that have do so much to bear down on the number of small boat crossing in the way he have describe ? I assure my hon . friend and the House that we be do extensive work with France — I once again pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Immigration Minister — and it be work . this be the point : it be work , and therefore we will continue to pursue it . will the Home Secretary please answer the question from my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) ? when be Glasgow mp go to get a meeting with the Home Office to discuss those successful refugee who have be grant status ? more widely , what discussion be he have with local authority across the UK on rehouse successful refugee ? my understanding be that official from my Department meet regularly on these issue . if there be specific case , the hon . Member should please bring they to my attention . I welcome my right hon . friend to his place , and I welcome his comment on the unfairness of illegal immigration for those who have come here legally . however , the Supreme Court ' s verdict this morning be extreme comprehensive , and it reveal not just one obstacle , but multiple obstacle to deport people from this country . if we want to deter the small boat , we need to be able to remove significant number of people extremely quickly . give the comprehensive nature of the judgment this morning , can I encourage my right hon . friend against an incremental approach ? it be clear from the ruling that we need to do something strong now . we choose in the Illegal Migration Act not to include " notwithstanding " provision , but I think we do need they now . I hear the point my hon . friend make about a powerful deterrent — we be absolutely committed to that — but I do say again that , in circumstance as challenging as this , there be rarely silver - bullet solution . in my whole time in government and in politic , I have never yet come across one . we have to pursue all our line of effort , and I give he my assurance that we will continue to do so . would the money waste on the Rwanda plan not have be more usefully spend on massively improve the application process to reduce illegal immigration and on establish safe and legal route to reduce the number of small boat ? I be wonder whether the microphone be work . there have be a tenfold increase in the pace of asylum process this last year . we be increase it . the thing be not mutually exclusive ; we be do all of they . it be great to have the Home Secretary in his new role , and to hear his confirmation that small boat arrival be down not just by a fifth , but now by a third , and that he will find a treaty to resolve the remain legal issue on the Rwanda deal . will my right hon . friend also encourage his official to share the datum on asylum application that be over a year old with member of Parliament , so that with our local council we can prepare housing solution in advance ? I will absolutely take that idea on board . we want to do everything we can to make sure that this process be as quick and as smooth as possible . the european convention on human right be develop to ensure that government would never again dehumanise people and abuse their right with impunity . so can the Secretary of State tell we : do the threat of revisit international relationship really mean that his Government be ready to unpick our international relationship and treaty , include the echr , so that they can demonise with impunity those flee persecution and conflict ? we say " never again " . member have ask I the same question over and over again . I hate do this , but I will refer the hon . Lady to the answer I give some moment ago . I welcome my right hon . friend to his new role , and I agree with he that today we see the Opposition mask slip . they have no wish to tackle this issue , and that be not surprising when their policy be to pass the number decision to the Leader of the Opposition ' s mothership in Brussels . my constituent be absolutely feed up . will my right hon . friend speak directly to they , and address their concern by say that nothing will be off the table to get this sort quickly ? the opposition be devoid of idea . they criticise , but they put nothing forward . their good plan be to list thing that we be already do , but object to other thing that we be go to add to that basket of tool . that be why I can reassure my hon . friend and her constituent that we , unlike they , will remain focused on serve the british people and stop the boat . to go back to the european convention on human right , because the Home Secretary have not be clear on this point , do he recognise that if the UK be to renounce the convention or tamper with it , that would undermine the Good Friday agreement , particularly around human right and policing and justice ; undermine the policing and justice co - operation aspect of the trade and co - operation agreement ; and leave the UK in the company of Belarus and Russia ? I be well aware of the implication of the European Court of Human Rights . I keep be invite to comment on something other than the text of my statement . I have make the Government ' s position clear : we be focus our attention on what we believe will unlock this important strand of a multi - strand approach to illegal migration . the Home Secretary will agree that the control of our border be a defining issue for million of people , so when the Prime Minister say that " if necessary I be prepared to revisit our domestic legal framework " , could we sharpen that up a bit to say that we will revisit our domestic legal framework , and will do so on multiple front in a timely way ? we be focus on deliver for the british people and deliver quickly . as I say , we have always have a multi - strand approach , and we will make sure that the domestic legislative framework be fit for purpose and that we can deliver on our commitment to stop the boat . when and how will the Home Secretary know that his treaty and legislative change be give the Court the certainty that it demand ? will he proactively go to the Court for a fresh ruling , or will he wait for third - party challenge and for the litigation merry - go - round to continue ? I be not go to set out all the plan for how we will put this in place . we have already start the process for turn the MOU into a treaty . we be focus on address the specific issue raise by their lordship . in addition to vote against the Government 70 time on stop the boat , the Opposition speak about natural dispersal when deal with economic migrant . this mean they often end up in Doncaster , where property be cheap , rather than in the leafy suburb of the liberal elite , but Doncaster be full . so will the Home Secretary do everything he can to put through the Rwanda treaty as soon as possible ? I welcome the point raise by my hon . friend . it be often the least well - off community who feel the burden most heavily , and it be our duty to they to address these issue . I give he that commitment — on my recent trip to just outside his constituency , I get his name wrong , for which I apologise — and I will do exactly that . this morning I meet a british palestinian woman call Wafia , who tell I that 30 member of her family have die in the last month in Gaza . she tell I about her cousin , who so far have survive but be utterly traumatise and completely terrified . should those cousin and their child somehow make it to these shore , albeit on the only route give to they by this government — in other word , the dangerous small boat crossing — be the Home Secretary seriously tell I that he could look they in the eye and tell they not only that they will they not be join Wafia , but that they will be go to Rwanda , which be his eventual plan , and will never be reunite with what remain of their family ? I be not go to be draw into make comment on specific individual without know the circumstance ; it would be ridiculous for anyone in the House to try to do immigration processing across the Dispatch Box like that . of course I recognise the pain and suffer that palestinian people in Gaza be experience — I have see it . we have family reconciliation scheme as part of our safe and legal route , but I be not go to make specific comment on individual case , and the reason will be obvious to anyone who give it any thought . the people of Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke want to know clearly and simply whether the Home Secretary , as well as look at our legal framework here in the United Kingdom , will be willing to disapply international treaty and convention such as the ECHR and the refugee convention in order to take back control of our border — yes or no ? I do not believe those thing be necessary , but the point be that we remain focused on what we need to do . as I have say a number of time , there be no silver bullet . this require constant work , constant vigilance and constant effort , and I give a commitment to my hon . friend , and to the whole House , that that be exactly what we will continue to do . accord to the Home Office ' s own figure , it will cost £ 63 , 000 more to transport a vulnerable human being to Rwanda than to let they stay in the UK . so if the Government want to scrap this unlawful , inhumane and cruel policy , how much money would it save taxpayer ? I do not agree . I do not agree with those number because — [ interruption . ] no , I do not agree with the hon . member ' s interpretation of those number because , ultimately , that fail to take into consideration the cost to human life of not deter people , of put their life into the hand of criminal , and of put their life at risk on the open sea in small , dangerous dinghy . he should be conscious that deter this evil trade be a human good and something we should pursue . I be amazed that he look at it purely in pound , shilling and penny , not in the cost to human life . do my right hon . friend agree that it be classic Labour double standard when Labour Members appear to support the United Nations send people to Rwanda but do not support the british Government do the same ? a friend of every country except their own , I think . the Home Secretary be clearly under a lot of pressure from his Back Benchers on this , but may I remind he that the ECHR be entwine throughout many year of devolved Parliament legislation , and indeed scottish case law ? what assurance can he give that his Government will not attempt to weaken or change the echr without consent from the devolved administration ? with regard to amendment , when I be Foreign Secretary I make the point that if we want to preserve institution , they need to evolve . nothing should be catch in aspic or freeze in amber . ultimately , once again , the hon . Lady ask I to be distract from our core effort , which be deliver on our multi - strand approach to tackle illegal migration , and I refuse to do so . I very much welcome my right hon . friend to his new post , and the clear determination he have show to stop the boat . however , speed be the metric by which our constituent will judge we . once the dust have settle on the judgment and it be clear whether we need a " notwithstanding " provision or other legislation , will he bring that to this House with the same speed that we bring through thing such as the Coronavirus Act 2020 , so that we can shut down the evil trade of people smuggle ? my hon . friend make an important point , and my commitment , which be echo by the Prime Minister , be that we will look at our domestic legislative framework and take action . we have pass one of the most ambitious piece of legislation and we be unafraid to do so . this be core to the life of the british people and their confidence in the security of their country , and it be core to our mission as a Government . what the Home Secretary be ultimately argue for be a system whereby rich western country get to pack off asylum seeker and refugee to poor country that already bear a vastly disproportionate share of responsibility for shelter refugee around the world . there be zero evidence that that will work , and an abundance of evidence of the harm it do to the individual catch up in it . be it not the case that this be not just illegal , but immoral and impracticable ? so what would the hon . gentleman do ? would he say that every person in the world — [ interruption . ] the world be a big place , and there be lot of people in it . be he credibly say that anybody choose to come here by any mean , include through the hand of evil criminal , should automatically have the right to stay ? it be an untenable position . we be address poverty and conflict in the develop world . we be address climate change , which be affect farmer in the develop world . we be do all those thing , but we be also discharge our duty to the british people to protect their border . if he do not feel that that be a function of Government , then he be wrong . I first raise this issue in this place on 18 May 2020 . the Rwanda scheme be stick in the court for 18 month . enough be enough . do the Home Secretary agree that one of the tool in his basket need to be a deterrent that be robust , and that timescale matter ? I have have enough , and all of my constituent have have enough . this be a matter of critical importance . do the Home Secretary agree ? I remind my hon . friend that we be already see success , and that success be accelerate because of the measure we have put in place . he be right to say that we need a deterrent for people make those dangerous crossing , and a deterrent for the illegal criminal . we be determined to deliver that , and we will do so in the face of the Opposition , who be desperately try to prevent we from do so . I very much hope that the measure my right hon . friend have set out will allow we to deliver the Rwanda plan as soon as possible . will he also look — I have ask for this on a number of occasion — at other third country that we could form partnership with , to deliver more processing overseas in a number of those location ? I assure my hon . friend that in addition to the conversation with Rwanda , which be well progress , we be have similar conversation with a number of other country . indeed , our policy be now be adopt in large part by a number of other european country whose circumstance be considerably bad than our . we be absolutely lead the field on this issue . I warmly welcome my fellow Essex colleague to his place and wish he every success . I welcome his commitment to a tough but fair policy on immigration . the people of Southend be particularly concerned that if we do not resolve the issue of illegal migration , we be prevent people who have serve our country from come here legally to safety . do he agree ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and a number of people have mention the humanity of this . it should be the elected Government of a country who decide who can and can not come to that country ; it should not be criminal , smuggler or people who prey on the weak . that would be the by - product of a failure to address the issue , and that be what we see from the opposition — a complete vacuum where policy should live . that vacuum encourage illegality and criminality , and that be what we be seek to address . I welcome the Home Secretary to his place and thank he for the outstanding job he do in his previous brief . Rwanda be a country that we do business with , a country with a thriving economy , and a country that the Leader of the Opposition ' s football team even promote as a tourist destination . bear that in mind , will the Government consider whether it may be appropriate to add Rwanda to the list of safe country ? my hon . friend make a good point , and one of the few thing that the former Leader of the Opposition and I share be a passion for Arsenal football club . Rwanda be a country that be develop fast , and it be a close partner . they listen carefully when we talk to and work with they , and I have no doubt that work closely with they we will bring this scheme into operation , and put forward the deterrent that will be a really important strand of our multi - strand approach to illegal migration . although I welcome the steady progress be make to close asylum hotel , I be extremely disappointed that the Metropole in Blackpool be yet to be vacate . that hotel be locate in the poor ward in the entire country bar none , and the pressure on my local community and public service be immense . be the Home Secretary able to assure I that in the next batch of hotel closure , socio - economic condition will be take into account , and that the Metropole will finally be close ? I listen careful to my hon . friend ' s point , and he reinforce the issue that I think be key : it be very easy for people to be generous of spirit when someone else be bear the burden . the people in his constituency and the immediate neighbourhood of the Metropole hotel be , as he say , not wealthy people , yet they be the one disproportionately bear the brunt of illegal migration . that be why we be committed to help they , and other people like they across the country , by get a grip of this evil trade and stop the boat . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it have recently come to light that a conservative donor ' s firm have be award an £ 11 . 5 million contract to supply school affect by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete with temporary classroom . David Wernick of Wernick Buildings Ltd , a Tory councillor and previous chair of a Conservative association , have donate £ 71 , 000 to the Tories and win Government contract with a combined total of £ 20 million . I wish I could say it shock I , Madam Deputy Speaker , but give this Government ' s record , it do not . on 5 September , I ask a write question to the Department for Education , ask specifically for detail of the portacabin provider it have contract to provide that temporary accommodation . I state clearly that I want the name of the firm contract . in his reply , the Under - Secretary of State for Education , the hon . member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) , fail to provide a substantive and specific answer to my specific question . it be not acceptable for minister to reply with obfuscation and avoidance , and I be increasingly concerned that that be become the norm in response to parliamentary question . I seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how member can ensure that in future we get clear , concise and correct response from the Government . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give I notice of her point of order . as I be sure she know , the Chair be not responsible for the content of answer to parliamentary question . Mr Speaker have always make it clear that he want as much transparency and accuracy as possible . the hon . Lady be fortunate , as I believe the Minister would like to make a point of order . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , I do not know anything about the first point of the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) , but on her second point , I will ask the Schools Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , to write to she and explain which company be involve . the Minister say that the Government will provide some further information . I be sure that if the hon . Lady do not find that satisfactory , she will come back , but do she wish to make a further point of order ? far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , I thank the Minister for that response . if he could please provide information on whether any competition take place before the award of the contract , that would be useful . I suggest that at this point we do not get into too many detail about what will be in the response , but we have start the ball rolling . we await that information be supply to the hon . Lady , and those on the Treasury Bench will have hear what I say about accuracy and transparency . Deputy Speaker ' s statement I have an announcement to make about the election of the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . nomination close at 1 pm for the position of Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . only one nomination have be receive , so there will not be a ballot . I congratulate the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) on his re - election . debate on the Address 6th Day Debate resume ( Order , 14 November ) . question again propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . Violence Reduction , Policing and Criminal Justice I inform the House that Mr Speaker have select amendment ( r ) in the name of the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , which will be move at the start of the debate , and amendment ( h ) in the name of Stephen Flynn , the Scottish National party leader , and amendment ( k ) in the name of Ed Davey , the leader of the Liberal Democrats , which will both be move at the end of the debate . colleague will know there be significant interest in the debate , so they should expect an early — if not immediate — time limit , which be likely to be five minute . I want to give warning of that so that people can adjust their speech accordingly . if they no long wish to speak , they should let I know . I beg to move amendment ( r ) , at the end of the question to add : " and submit to your Majesty that this House wish to see an end to the violence in Israel and Palestine ; unequivocally condemn the horrific terrorist attack and murder of civilian by Hamas , call for the immediate release of all hostage and reaffirm Israel ' s right to defend its citizen from terrorism ; believe all human life be equal and that there have be too much suffering , include far too many death of innocent civilian and child , over the past month in Gaza ; reaffirm the UK ' s commitment to the rule - base international order , international humanitarian law and the jurisdiction of the ICC to address the conduct of all party in Gaza and Hamas ' s attack in Israel ; call on Israel to protect hospital and lift the siege condition allow food , water , electricity , medicine and fuel into Gaza ; request the Government continue to work with the international community to prevent a wide escalation of the conflict in the region , guarantee that people in Gaza who be force to flee during this conflict can return to their home and seek an end to the expansion of illegal settlement and settler violence in the West Bank ; and , while acknowledge the daily humanitarian pause to allow in aid and the movement of civilian , believe they must be long to deliver humanitarian assistance on a scale that begin to meet the desperate need of the people of Gaza , which be a necessary step to an endure cessation of fighting as soon as possible and a credible , diplomatic and political process to deliver the last peace of a two - state solution . " when the Prime Minister open the King ' s Speech debate just eight day ago , we have all this briefing about how it be a " rishi reset " moment . so much of a flop be it , that have make promise just eight day ago about the change his Government would deliver , now he be talk about the change to his government instead . we have another reshuffle and another Rishi reset — not change , just more of the same chaos . we remember his conference claim that he be reject decade of failure , include the last 13 year of Tory Government . just a month later , he have bring back one of the main Tory architect in the former Prime Minister , who cut 20 , 000 police officer , bring in the bedroom tax and austerity , and push work family and child into poverty . it be a sign of the state of the Tory party that the Prime Minister who do all that be now suddenly see as a moderate . instead of a government focus on the problem face the country , whether the cost of living crisis , record NHS waiting list or rise town centre crime and serious violence , what we have get be just more of the same Tory psychodrama and chaos . in the past seven and a half year , we have have five Prime Ministers , six Chancellors , seven Health Secretaries , seven Foreign Secretaries , eight Home Secretaries and 11 — I think I count right — Justice Secretaries . eight . eight Justice Secretaries — it have be a struggle to keep count of their change . we have have eight home Secretaries in less than eight year and , even bad , two of they be the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) . she be so unsuited for the job of Home Secretary that she be sack twice : once for breach security rule in government , and the second time for undermine security on our street , attack the police , undermine respect for the decision they take in the run - up to a difficult weekend , ramp up division around remembrance and make it hard for the police to do their job . no other Home Secretary would ever have do those thing . it show how little this Prime Minister care about our security that he be prepared to reappoint she , to defend she and to follow she wherever she lead , and now we know why . the dodgy deal that the Prime Minister deny last year be now lay bare in the former Home Secretary ' s letter . she say : " despite you have be reject by a majority of Party member … and thus have no personal mandate to be Prime Minister " . fair point there . she go on : " this be a document with clear term to which you agree in October 2022 during your second leadership campaign . I trust you . " obviously that be another sign of her poor judgment . the deal make he Prime Minister and make he make she the most unsuitable Home Secretary this country have have . the Conservatives publish their late Criminal Justice Bill yesterday . it have measure that Labour call for to tackle antisocial behaviour , and I be go to make the point that the Government have no idea of their own and be just follow Labour ' s lead , but I have to concede that they and the Tory party in general be definitely the expert on antisocial behaviour . the former Home Secretary be throw rock and stone . the New Conservative group be make dark threat , go round the parliamentary Tory party nuisance - beg for no - confidence letter in the Prime Minister . the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) be so desperate to find out how many letter have go in to the chair of the 1922 committee , the right hon . member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Sir Graham Brady ) that he be now camp outside his office , but I guess they tell we it be a lifestyle choice . while the Tories fight culture war with each other , the rest of we be worried about security on our street . the new Home Secretary have brief that he do not want to take over the job , but he have agree to take one for the team . let I just say to he and to all Government Front bencher : if they do not want to run the Home Office or the Ministry of Justice and can not see how to do the job , they should get out the way for those of we who can . our country be cry out for a Government who care about tackle crime , restore security to our street and restore confidence in the police , rather than a Tory Government chase headline and fighting among themselves . the Government want to tell we that all be fine on the number of police and the level of crime , but they be badly out of touch , because that be not what it feel like across the country , and nothing in the King ' s Speech will touch the side . we have 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police on our street . half the country say they never see a bobby on the beat . Knife crime be up by 70 % , devastate young life . we have persistent violence against woman and girl across our country . that be the Conservatives ' abysmal legacy on law and order . labour have set out a mission on crime to halve serious violence include knife crime and violence against woman and girl , to reverse the catastrophic collapse in the proportion of crime solve , and to rebuild confidence in the police and criminal justice system by get 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police on the street and tackle town centre crime . however , what do we have in the King ' s Speech ? the Criminal Justice Bill include measure that Labour call for long ago , but it do not tackle enough of the serious problem that our country face or make up for the damage that have be do . we support make sure that the most serious and dangerous criminal properly serve their time , but , frankly , too few criminal be actually catch or charge in the first place . under this government , more than 90 % of crime go unsolved . for those who commit a crime , the chance of be catch and punish be less than half what they be under the last Labour Government . that be the scale of collapse in law and order under the Tories . on knife crime , the measure go nowhere near far enough . on violence against woman and girl , I be really concerned because there be nothing on spike , nothing serious on stalk and nothing to turn around the woeful fact that 98 % of rapist avoid charge . the Government ' s sentencing proposal may mean that thousand of domestic abuser whose violence be escalate will be let off jail . there be nothing at all on town centre crime . shoplifting be up a shocking 25 % in a year . assault on shop worker triple during the pandemic and have not go down again . this be Freedom from Fear Week , and I thank the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and the British Retail Consortium for the work they be do to stand up for staff safety and shine a light on the disgraceful way in which people be be treat just for do their job . but why be the Government not listen to they ? labour be , and we will change the law . we will table amendment to the crime and justice Bill to ditch the ridiculous £ 200 rule that stop action from be take against repeat shoplifting gang and to bring in a proper new offence of assault shop worker , because everyone have the right to feel safe at work . on national security and some of the core issue that affect the safety of our nation , in the past we have broad cross - party consensus and work together in that spirit . Labour will always stand ready to do so . Security Ministers and shadow Security Ministers have do so before , and that be the spirit in which we will work on the national security Bill . that be also the spirit in which we would always have expect to approach the operational independence and impartiality of british policing . the last Home Secretary undermine that ; I hope that the new Home Secretary will be able to restore it , because this be too important for we to disagree on . it be likewise for the safety and cohesion of our community . we have see tension increase as a result of the truly awful event in the middle east . there have be an appalling rise in antisemitism , include some disgraceful incident this weekend , with jewish community feel enormous anguish and distress . we have also see an awful increase in Islamophobia and the rise of organise far - right thuggery about which the police raise concern this weekend . every one of we in this House must be clear that violence and hate crime have no place on Britain ' s street and must face the full force of the law . we must all back the police in take the action that be need . I thank the police for the reassurance work they be do with synagogue , jewish school and mosque as well as their action against the hate crime that devastate life and corrode community . I say to the Justice Secretary and the new Home Secretary that Labour have call for strong action to tackle both antisemitism and Islamophobia and hateful extremism . again , we stand ready to work with the government and see what we can do to come together to address these serious issue , because there be a responsibility on all of we to bring our community together . the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , will speak later about Labour ' s amendment in more detail , but every one of we will have be deeply disturb by the terrible event in the middle east . we want an end to the devastating violence and suffering . we have see 11 , 000 Palestinians kill ; two third of they woman and child . thousand of innocent child be dead . family be bereaved and parent grieve . it be intolerable . hundred of hostage be still be hold follow the grave attack on jewish people on any day since the holocaust . israeli family be still experience the horror and the trauma as the remain of their love one be still be identify . family and community be still reel from the event . we all condemn the truly barbaric attack by Hamas terrorist on 7 October . under international law , we respect country ' right to defend their citizen from terrorist attack and also country ' obligation to abide by international law . the conduct of war matter . as Antony Blinken say at the very start of the conflict , " how Israel do this matter . we democracy distinguish ourselves from terrorist by strive for a different standard , even when it be difficult … our humanity — the value that we place on human life and human dignity — that ' s what make we who we be . " the rule - base order must not be abandon . that be why we must commit to recognise the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court to address the conduct of all party in the conflict . but it be also why we need an urgent suspension of hostility : not just a short pause , but , as my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary have set out , the time and space to get in fuel , food and water , to rebuild vital humanitarian infrastructure , to protect aid worker , who be lose their life on a scale we have never see before in conflict , to put in place protection for civilian and negotiate hostage release , and to work towards a full cessation of violence and endure peace so that life can be save and the intolerable suffering can end . we know that that require immense and complex diplomatic work . it be not easy . we have word on a page that we will talk about vote on today , but we all know that it be not through word on a page that this will be achieve ; it will be achieve through step - by - step intense diplomacy and pressure that recognise how difficult it be when Hamas refuse to agree to stop rocket attack and pledge again to repeat the attack of 7 October . we recognise , too , that hostage be still be hold , but we still have to make urgent diplomatic progress . we still have to do what we can right now to save life and make progress in get hostility suspend , especially so that humanitarian action can be take . we recognise , too , that the only way forward be a two - state solution with a secure and safe Israel alongside a secure and sovereign Palestine . my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary be right to say yesterday that " neither the long - term security of Israel nor long - term justice for Palestine can be deliver by bomb and bullet . " — [ Official Report , 14 November 2023 ; Vol . 740 , c . 510 . ] that be why there be a responsibility on all of we to urge the UK Government to do what they can — to strain every sinew — in the pursuit of peace . the first duty of any Government — its most serious and solemn responsibility — be to keep its people safe . since 2010 , overall level of crime be down by more than 50 % . domestic burglary be down by 57 % , violent crime by 52 % , vehicle - relate theft by 39 % , and the number of young people admit to hospital follow an assault with a knife or other bladed weapon have fall by 26 % . in fact , his Majesty ' s chief inspector of constabulary , Andy Cooke , have say that " England and Wales be arguably safe than they have ever be . " that be because the Government have take decisive measure , include recruit 20 , 000 police officer so that we can cut crime and keep our community safe . we have make robust punishment available for the bad criminal to keep the most serious offender in custody for long , and we have commission the big prison building programme since the victorian era . the Gracious Speech build on that record with a range of long - term decision that keep public protection at the heart of the Government ' s agenda for our country . I want to start with tackle violence against woman and girl , on a point make by the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) . that be a priority for the Government , and for I personally , but let we step back to reflect on some of the progress make in the last decade or so . the right hon . Lady refer to the offence of stalk and say that she want some progress . she will recall that in the 13 year that she be in Government , there be no offence or crime of stalk . we be the party that create it so that behaviour describe as " murder in slow motion " could be properly address . then we double the maximum sentence . let I correct the Secretary of State . he may not recall , but I table one of the first amendment on reform to introduce a stalk law . that same amendment be eventually take up in the other place by the labour lord , and the Conservative Government agree to it . I be very glad that they do , but he should not take credit for agree to a labour proposal that I and other put forward . I be delighted to debate this with the right hon . Lady . thirteen year , and it be not on the statute book . when do it come on to the statute book ? in 2012 . she have 13 year , and she miss her opportunity . this be the party that put it on the statute book . the right hon . Lady refer to other matter of violence against woman and girl . this be the party that create the offence of coercive and control behaviour . we be the party that slay the myth that abuse be perpetrate only with punch , kick and other physical violence . we know that it be not , and we act to outlaw it . we introduce the landmark Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , create a new domestic abuse commissioner and end abuse such as the ability of da perpetrator to cross - examine victim . we create a standalone offence of non - fatal strangulation , and make clear that the cowardly so - call " rough sex go wrong " defence for murder do not exist . we deliver radical improvement to the victim code to secure entitlement for victim , include the automatic right for eligible victim to be tell when a perpetrator be due to leave prison . there be a 24 / 7 rape support helpline , more than 950 independent sexual violence adviser and independent domestic violence adviser . we have outlaw upskirting and revenge porn , and introduce the most wide - range modern slavery legislation probably anywhere in the world . over the last year , we have build on that work by ensure that violence against woman and girl be now recognise as a national threat , just like terrorism and organised crime . it be also include in the strategic policing requirement . when I begin my career in the court , violence behind close door be all too often pass off and trivialise as a " domestic " , with no action take . not any more . we see it for what it be : corrosive , cruel and devastating . those responsible be no long beyond the reach of the law . I commend the Secretary of State on his speech . he will know that the figure for Northern Ireland be the bad in the whole of Europe . a total of 27 woman have be murder in Northern Ireland by an intimate partner , relative or family member since 2017 . those figure be shameful and discourage for we all . would he encourage the Department for Justice in Northern Ireland to follow suit on any legislation on tackle violence against woman and girl , so that Northern Ireland be not leave behind ? yes , I would . I look forward to the restoration of the Assembly so that these important priority can be pursue . let I turn to the issue of rape , which I hear mention sotto voce from the Opposition Benches . in 2021 , we launch a rape review to drive up the criminal justice system ' s response to this crime . we commit to total transparency on the datum , publish dashboard about report , charge and receipt in the Crown court , so that any member of the public could see what be take place at the touch of a button . we identify lever to drive forward the effectiveness and efficiency of the system , include roll out technology to ensure that evidence from mobile phone device could be harness rapidly , without victim be separate for long period from what can be a lifeline . we set out ambition that many commentator say be unachievable , and we bring Government Departments together , literally — sit around the same table to prosecute our mission on behalf of victim . of course , there be always further to go , but the progress make be significant . the volume of adult rape case reach court since 2019 have double . meanwhile , see as the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford want to put we under the microscope , let I make these point . the situation compare with 2010 be strike . More case of rape be be prosecute . the conviction rate be high . sentence be long and , importantly , the proportion of those sentence spend in custody be significantly increase , too . to the political point that the right hon . Lady make , she be in Government and vote for the Criminal Justice Act 2003 , section 244 of which , if she want to remember , make sure that every single rapist be release at the halfway mark . if they be sentence to 10 year , she vote to ensure that they be release after five . we have change that . this government say that that be not right , not fair on victim and not just . she need to account for her action . we have invest £ 24 million in Operation Soteria , which bring together the police , prosecutor and academic to develop a new approach to rape and sexual offence . there be now a clear expectation that investigation must focus on a suspect ' s behaviour , not on the victim ' s suppose credibility . let I turn to the police . become a police officer be a noble calling . to sign up be to commit to run towards danger when other flee . it mean engage with the most threatening people in society , but also the most vulnerable . that demand judgment as well as skill and integrity . give the power that officer necessarily wield , it be essential that those who wear the uniform be competent , decent and honest . a small minority of officer fall short of the require standard . in recent year , some have transgress in the bad way possible . that inevitably shake public confidence in the police . Baroness Casey ' s review of the Met make for deeply concern reading , and the first part of the Angiolini inquiry be focus on the career of the serve officer who rape and murder Sarah Everard . part two will look at broad issue in police and the safety of woman . early this year , the Government launch a review into police officer dismissal , and the Home Office have recently announce a number of measure to strengthen the system as a result of that review . there will be a presumption of dismissal for those find to have commit gross misconduct . we be hand back responsibility for chair misconduct hearing to senior police officer , while retain independence in the system . the College of Policing have strengthen the statutory code of practice for police vetting , make the obligation on police chief strict and clear , as be publish in July . his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service have find that force have make progress on vetting . they must not let up . all police force have cross - check their workforce against the police national database to help to identify anyone not fit to serve and the National Police Chiefs ' Council will provide an update on its finding in January . the Government will change the law to ensure that all officer who be unable to maintain vetting clearance can be sack . the Criminal Justice Bill include a duty of candour , require police chief to ensure an ethical culture in their force . in August , the previous Home Secretary write to police leader , ask they to outline their plan to increase visibility and confidence in local policing and to report back on progress by next March . confidence in police be not just about individual behaviour but about the performance of each force . there be no such thing as a trivial crime . the public expect the police to follow all reasonable line of inquiry , and the Government have secure a pledge from all force to do so . that pledge apply to all crime , and the public expect to see improvement in the approach to phone theft , car theft , criminal damage and shoplifting . at the heart of the Government ' s legislative programme for the forthcoming parliamentary session be our plan to keep the british people safe . our Sentencing Bill have public protection at its core . there be two element to our approach . for people who commit the most horrific murder , such as murder with sexual or sadistic conduct , the public be protect by keep they where they belong — out of circulation , behind bar for the rest of their life , unless the court find exceptional circumstance . that be how they can be prevent from inflict any more damage to individual and to society . our Bill also mean that rapist and those convict of the most serious sexual offence will serve every day of their custodial term behind bar . that is night and day compare with the regime we inherit in 2010 . at that time , a rapist sentence to 10 year be out in five . now , a rapist sentence to 10 year will serve the full term . my right hon . and learn Friend be make an excellent speech and do excellent work . he have not mention the crime of terrorism , which be one of the most serious , and he have not have a chance to mention the amendment that we will vote on today . there be grave concern that the great the loss of civilian life in the middle east be , the great the likelihood of radicalisation and increase terror at home . do he agree that those of we who believe that now be not the right time to call for a full ceasefire , because of the difficulty of give it , be not give Israel a moral blank cheque to continue with operation in the way it have so far ? protect civilian life be vital to prevent future terrorism here and elsewhere . my right hon . friend put it well . anyone who have observe what have take place can not fail but to be fill with anguish and distress , so of course it be the case that a nation ' s right to defend itself be a right to do so consistent with international law . the Government be very clear on that , as indeed I think be most people in the House , but she put the point well . protect the public , which be the theme I be seek to stress , also demand that we follow the evidence about what work to prevent reoffende . if reoffende go down , crime go down . if crime go down , the public be protect . I be very grateful to the Lord Chancellor , who be quite right early to reject the attempt at revisionist history on stalk by those on the Labour Benches . he and I work very closely together on the initial change to the legislation . do he agree with I that there be an opportunity in the next police , crime and sentence Bill to also address something that would help to protect some of our young people , which be the issue of spike ? there be a real opportunity to update the 1861 law , give a clear definition of spike and send a very clear message to all those who might be tempt to do so . I thank my hon . friend , who be absolutely right . he do extraordinarily important work on stalk . he understand , as I do , that it be a wicked crime that leave woman in particular feeling very vulnerable . we act when other do not and revisionism be to be deprecate ; I strongly agree with he . on spike , my hon . friend be a tremendous campaigner . he be right that the legislation that be apt to capture this offence be within the Offences against the Person Act 1861 . it provide police with power , but he make a powerful point . he will continue to make such point and we will consider they with care . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be make an interesting speech . I expect he will share my disquiet that we presently have 600 vacancy for police in Scotland which be not go to be fill . an independent councillor in the highland call Matthew Reiss , himself a senior retire police officer , have say that the thin blue line be go to get thin . without police , we can not do the sort of thing that the right hon . and learn Gentleman be talk about — in other word , catch the criminal and make people feel secure . could he , in his capacity , share his good practice with the Scottish Government in the future ? what a very kind offer . I be sure that call will be echo by those in the SNP Benches in front of the hon . gentleman . we , of course , would be delighted to share any good practice . he make a very serious point . to do all the thing we want to do to protect vulnerable people require boot on the ground — it require police officer . that be why we be proud of the fact that in this jurisdiction the number of police officer stand at , or close to , an all - time high . we would be happy to commend that approach to our friend north of the border . on public protection , take the most serious offender out of circulation be how we stop they commit crime . but we also want to follow the evidence about what work to prevent reoffende , because that be also how we keep the british people safe . the evidence — not sentiment , evidence — show that those on immediate prison sentence of less than 12 month be significantly more likely to reoffend than similar offender who get sentence in the community . they be over 50 % likely to reoffend , as compare to less than 25 % for those who be require to adhere to tough condition , with a risk of go to prison if they fail to comply . let I be clear about what that mean . those who be on suspend sentence order be require to comply with onerous requirement — be they unpaid work order , alcohol rehabilitation requirement or whatever — on pain of go straight to prison if they fail to comply . the evidence show that people see that as a powerful deterrent . my right hon . and learn Friend will want to comment , in that context , on persistent offender , because he will know that there be many offender who persistently offend and commit crime that would not attract a sentence of more than 12 month . the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) speak of shoplifting , for example . criminal damage would be another example , as would antisocial behaviour . some 30 % of persistent offender commit 80 % of crime . be he really say that none of they should go to prison ? on the contrary . I know that my right hon . friend rightly , on behalf of his constituent , want to ensure that those who destroy life and have a corrosive impact on community be bring to book . that be why the provision have be carefully construct and calibrate to ensure that those who be unable or unwilling to abide by an order of the court can expect to hear the clang of the prison gate . not only will the proverbial sword of Damocles be hang over they , but for those who commit an offence when they be subject to a court order — be it a supervision order , a community order or a non - molestation order — the presumption no long apply . we send a clear message to criminal : obey the order of the court or expect to go to prison . judge will retain their discretion to impose immediate custody when an offender pose a significant risk of physical or psychological harm to an individual — this be to the direct point make by the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford — so that domestic abuse offence and other violent offence against woman and girl can and will continue to be punish , with immediate custody protect victim . nothing change , but for those whose sentence be suspend , the court will be able to continue to use a range of requirement , include curfew , electronic tag , community payback and exclusion requirement . those who do not comply or who commit further offence can be bring back to court and risk be send to prison . alongside that , we want to ensure that we have the prison place to keep serious and dangerous offender lock up for long , while allow low risk offender to benefit from community - base restriction to assist with their resettlement , get back into work and start contribute to society where that can be safely manage . for that reason , we be extend home detention curfew to offender serve sentence of over four year and keep our tough restriction that prevent serious violent , sexual and domestic abuse offender from access this facility . the Criminal Justice Bill include measure that deliver on three strategic objective : first , protect the public from violence and intimidation ; secondly , enable law enforcement agency to respond to change technology deploy by criminal , include by equip they with sufficient power to address emerge type and threat ; and thirdly , strengthen public confidence in police . we will protect the public from violence and intimidation by strengthen the law on the taking of intimate image without consent and expand the offence of encourage or assist self - harm . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way . we use to have happy time on the Justice Committee together when we be little stripling . what he be say sound good , but my question be this . last year , the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) and I amend the Public Order Act 2023 to stop intimidatory protest against woman use abortion clinic . although it be pass , that be the only section that have not be enact . Ealing Council do not know whether to renew its temporary order , which be come up again . if the law be pass and enact , it should not have to . can he tell Ealing Council and the whole country what to do when woman every day face intimidation ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . we do indeed have a productive and non - partisan time on the Justice Committee . on the specific important point she raise , the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , will address that point in closing — but essentially , it will happen in due course . we will protect the public from violence and intimidation by strengthen the law on the taking of intimate image , as I have indicate . we will increase the multi - agency management requirement on offender convict of coercive or control behaviour . as I say , that be not an offence in 2010 . we be implement a further recommendation in the domestic homicide sentencing review , give judge the discretion at sentencing to add a statutory aggravating factor for a killing connect to the end of a relationship , many of which be commit where there have be a history of coercive or control behaviour . that man who say , " if I can ' t have you , no one will " can expect a more serious penalty . finally , it be a further insult to family when perpetrator refuse to appear in the dock to face up to the consequence of their action , so it be quite right that we will give judge the power to order offender to court and punish those who refuse . the Secretary of State have outline some measure to protect woman who face really horrific abuse . I have be campaign on the key issue of girl who be associate with gang . the fact be that they be groom and use by gang member for horrific crime , and those girl be then victimise and imprison . do he agree that we should have a statutory definition of child criminal exploitation , so that girl do not continue to face that horrific ordeal ? the hon . Lady have make a very important point . I will not bore the House with war story , but I remember defend a young woman — 17 year old . she have be abuse by her boyfriend , who have put pressure on she to hold a MAC - 10 firearm . the police , of course , then arrest she , and she be at risk of a mandatory minimum sentence of three year , although she have be put under all that pressure by her boyfriend . the court do have discretion to take personal circumstance into account , and in that case , when the court find that there have be exceptional circumstance , it be not bind to impose the mandatory minimum sentence . it be always worth recall that in a fair society , before independent court , there be an opportunity for important point of mitigation to be advance . the hon . Lady also make a point about groom , and I now want to turn to the issue of protect child in that regard . in April , the Prime Minister and the former Home Secretary announce a package of measure to tackle child sexual exploitation , grooming and abuse , so that our law would keep pace with criminal ' late warped ingenuity . we be introduce a statutory aggravating factor at sentencing for groom behaviour in connection with sexual offence commit against under - 18 in order to tackle those involve in groom gang . there be also a new child sexual exploitation police taskforce — that mean analyst in every police region — and a new complex and organised child abuse database . tackle organised exploitation programme have also be roll out , bring together force - level , regional and national datum and intelligence . the Criminal Justice Bill also take the fight to criminal . article use in serious crime , such as template for 3d - print firearm component and pill press , will be prohibit . the Government have secure from the police agreement to pursue all reasonable line of inquiry , and the Bill create a power to enter premise without a warrant to seize steal good such as mobile phone . the operation of serious crime prevention order will be strengthen to make it easy for police and other law enforcement agency to place restriction on offender or suspect offender and prevent they from participate in further crime . the Bill bring further action on the scourge that be knife crime : that include create a power to seize , retain and destroy bladed article find on private property that be likely to be use in connection with unlawful violence , increase the maximum penalty for the sale of prohibit weapon and for sell knife to those under 18 , and the creation of a criminal offence of possess a bladed article with the intent to use it in unlawful violence . to increase public confidence in policing , the Bill provide for a duty of candour for policing , and give chief officer the right to appeal against the result of misconduct board to police appeal tribunal . let I turn briefly to the Victims and Prisoners Bill , which will enshrine the principle of the victim code in law , and provide great oversight and transparency in respect of how victim be treat , with criminal justice inspectorate undertake joint inspection on victim issue when direct to do so . as one who grapple with the old victim code under the Labour Government , when the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford be in power , I should point out that that be a pale imitation of what exist now . the code that be in place under Labour fail to give victim a right to review or the right to make a victim personal statement , it only apply to victim of particularly serious crime , and it fail to give any right to close relative . our victim code dramatically strengthen the right of victim . it will be easy for victim of crime to make complaint against a public body by remove the need to go through an MP . it create a duty for the police to ensure that request for third - party personal record from complainant be proportionate and necessary . this measure will apply to victim only . there will be an independent public advocate for the victim of major incident , who will help bereaved family and the injure in the immediate aftermath of a large - scale disaster . rise — I will give certainly way to the right hon . Lady in a moment , but not before pay tribute to she and , indeed , the Hillsborough family and other for campaign for this measure . I know that the Lord Chancellor have take an interest in the public advocate proposal , but do he agree that they need to be strengthen in order to be effective , and that his proposal , as they currently stand , be nowhere near good enough to do the job that I , and other , hope they can do ? I have be very grateful to the right hon . Lady for the care and attention that she have give to this sensitive area over many month and year . we will continue to work with she so that this can be the well possible advocate . it be important to note , however , that whatever we provide will be a massive step forward . we do of course want to get it right , and I commit myself to work closely with the right hon . Lady in order to do so . finally , the Parole Board will be require to include member with a background in law enforcement in order to help parole panel make well decision when assess risk . the legislation lay out in the Gracious Speech be an ambitious , long - term vision for our country . it build on our record over the last 13 year to make our country safe than ever . it be a programme root in evidence ; a programme that respond to the anger and distress that we all feel about crime , and that do so with measure that actually drive it down . we will ensure that the most dangerous offender spend long in prison to protect the british people from harm , and to protect woman and girl in particular . we will equip the police with power to fight the late criminal trend that blight our community , and we will ensure that law enforcement have the confidence of the public while pull every lever to reduce offending , because that be what keep the british people safe . rise — at the death , I will give way . I detect that my right hon . and learn Friend have reach the close part of his peroration , so I want to ask he to address one concern that I have about the policing of demonstration . as it happen , I think the police make the right call about 11 November , give the law as it stand . what concern I be that three week early , on 21 October , a plan demonstration in Golders Green to pray for Israel and the jewish people be call off after the police advise that it would be subject to intimidation or violence from people who be represent it as a threat against Muslims hold a demonstration for Palestine seven mile away . do it not concern my right hon . and learn Friend that a peaceful demonstration should be call off in the face of intimidation , and be it not a matter of concern that the people who make the online threat that lead the police to give that advice have not , as far as I have learn , be in any way question , seek or prosecute ? as always , my right hon . friend have make an extremely powerful point . on the basis of what he have say , that do seem troubling . I do not know all the detail , of course , but the fundamental point be that anyone in our community , whether they be jewish or otherwise , should be able to practise their faith without let or hindrance . I be grateful to he for raise that . if there be measure that need to be follow up to protect our vulnerable community , they should be . the Criminal Justice Bill focus on the evidence — the evidence of what work and the evidence of what keep the british people safe . sometimes that will mean people be lock up for long , and we make no apology for that . sometimes it will mean ensure that those who be capable of be redeem be be redeem . that be how we drive down reoffende , and that be how we protect the british people . I commend the Government ' s programme to the House . rise — order . as soon as the Scottish National party spokesperson have sit down , I will impose a time limit of six minute on speech . it may go down from that , but we will see how we get on . friend of mine will know that I run an occasional series on my social medium about " Westminster weirdness " . give what have happen in the past week , I really do not know where to start , but I congratulate the Secretary of State on still be here to deliver his speech . that , I suppose , represent some progress for he , if not for his colleague . I tend not to speak too much about justice in this place , because that be largely for the Scottish Parliament to determine , but some aspect of the legislation propose in the King ' s Speech bear some relation to what be happen in Scotland . I note in particular the draft Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill . I hope that the Government will engage closely not just with the Scottish Government but with local authority in Scotland , which may have an important role to play in the implementation of such a Bill . give the way in which the exist licensing regime work for venue and premise in Scotland , they may have something to add that might work quite well in Scotland . I be sure that Ministers will want to work closely with the Scottish Government on the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill . I note that certain provision of the Criminal Justice Bill will apply in Scotland , and I look forward to get some clarity from Ministers on precisely which provision will apply there . I will mention some of these thing later on . it be shocking at the weekend to see the attack on the police happen outside this very building — attack that be encourage in many respect by the rhetoric come from this Government . in many case , the signal that Ministers and their colleague have be put out have not be a dog whistle but a foghorn . to see the far right out on the street , burst through the police , claim police helmet as if it be some kind of war victory and take those trophy home , be appalling . the further fallout from this of the Islamophobic attack on woman at station in the city be appalling and shocking . I hope that those who perpetrate all those attack will be identify and bring to justice . likewise , those who have be make antisemitic attack against our jewish community need to feel the full force of the law . the Scottish Government recently bring in hate crime legislation in Scotland , and I be sure that it will be use wherever it can be to hold those who perpetrate such hate crime to account . recorded crime in Scotland remain extremely low . the most recent crime statistic show that record crime be at one of its low level since 1974 . the overall number of crime record for the year end June 2023 be 4 % low than the pre - pandemic level in June 2019 , accord to the late statistic . remarkably , Police Scotland have a 100 % homicide detection rate , mean that every one of the tragic murder that have be commit since the inception of the single service have be solve . far to that , a significant number of cold case commit many decade ago , prior to the inception of Police Scotland , have be detect use modern technology and bring to trial , include the murder of Brenda Page in 1978 and Renee MacRae in 1976 . there be a lot still to be do to ensure that those who have perpetrate crime be bring to justice , however , and no one can rest until the love one of those victim see the justice that those they have lose deserve . we need to do a good deal more on violence against woman and girl . the Scottish Government have lead in this area in many respect . the equally safe strategy have work well , but there be always more that we need to do . the recently publish " Vision for Justice " delivery plan include action to address long - stand challenge in the system face by victim of sexual offence , as well as the continued modernisation of the prison estate . we be set out an ambitious programme of reform that go up to March 2026 . the plan put a fresh focus on early prevention to prevent and reduce crime and to make community safe . it can never be just about lock people up ; prevention be incredibly important too . the Criminal Justice Bill that the Secretary of State mention talk about crack down on thing , but crack down on thing just mean lock more people up . for young people in particular , that will change their life chance dramatically and have an impact on the rest of their life and their family ' s life . the work of the violence reduction unit in Scotland over many year have take a preventive approach to violence in young people , and violent offending in young people have go down significantly as a result . this work recognise that young people — particularly in this era , with the impact of the pandemic and the cost of live crisis — be really struggle with their life and need intervention all the more . youth work can be powerful in change young people ' s life chance . I pay tribute in particular to PEEK — possibility for each and every Kid — and the Youth Community Support Agency in Pollokshields , which have do a huge amount of work over many year to tackle the issue face young people in our community . however , we can not be complacent . we need continual work and investment in these service . the violence reduction unit also wish to highlight the work that have be go on around the promise for care - experienced young people in Scotland , who we know from the statistic be sadly more likely to end up in the criminal justice system . we need to continue to work with this group , and to learn from they and their experience to ensure that their life chance be improve and that the promise be deliver upon . another piece of work that have be go on in Scotland , far to the hate crime legislation that come before , be Baroness Helena Kennedy ' s work on the introduction of a misogyny Bill to create new offence relate to misogynistic conduct . any woman in this place will tell you about the scourge of misogynistic conduct , whether it be the grow swell of hatred against woman online , the challenge of social medium and the attack on woman there , or the way in which young woman be draw into thing that put they in harm ' s way , perhaps through sexual experience online or through the way in which these thing be deal with in our society . a lot more work need to be do to tackle misogyny in our society . a national system will be roll out in Scotland to digitally transform how evidence be manage across the justice sector , which will benefit victim and witness and support the quick resolution of case . we be also aim to expand the availability of mediation service in civil dispute , because it will save people time , stress and money if these thing can be resolve at an early stage . I want to touch briefly on drug policy , because there have be significant progress in Scotland in recent year . yes , we have our challenge and we acknowledge those challenge , but we be put significant effort into tackle they . I welcome the mention of pill press in the Criminal Justice Bill , because street Valium have be a particular scourge on the street of Scotland . it be be sell at very cheap price and with indeterminate strength . it have be implicate in many death , so we need to tackle it at source . again , this be a public health issue . we be not tackle the people who be take those drug ; we be tackle those who be force they on to the street . on the UK ' s approach , I would continue to urge the UK Government to do something with the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 . it be an entirely outdated piece of legislation that criminalise and harm people who have a health issue . it be disappointing that the King ' s Speech do not see fit to tackle that , and that the UK Government have respond so poorly to the strong , evidence - base report that the Home Affairs Committee produce on drug policy in the UK . we need to learn from these thing , not continue to be guide by outdated and harmful ideology . in Scotland , we have invest £ 141 million in drug and alcohol service and make huge stride in the increase of residential rehabilitation facility , which be incredibly important . we have open the first national family drug treatment service in the new mother and child recovery house in Dundee . we have also make a huge amount of progress , as be acknowledge in the Home Affairs Committee report , on medication - assist treatment standard , which will help people to get that treatment straightaway when they need it . we be increase the uptake of residential rehabilitation placement and the availability of lifesave naloxone . I encourage all member to go for naloxone training , as I and my office team have do . I have staff from the Scottish Drugs Forum come into my office and deliver training to I and my staff , and the staff team of colleague , on how to administer lifesave naloxone . it be a simple thing to do , and it can save a life . as we be all aware in our community , it seem sensible to be able to do this . if we be teach cardiopulmonary resuscitation , it make sense to do something of this kind with naloxone . the Scottish Government have very much be a leader in that . we have implement an enhance drug treatment service , which will deliver heroin - assist treatment to a small group of people . it have be incredibly well receive and successful for those who have be through the programme . those who complete it have see huge benefit , and I look forward very much to the opening of the safe drug consumption facility in my constituency next year . it be not yet open , but I very much believe that it will do an awful lot to reduce the antisocial behaviour of people take drug on the street , in bin shed , and on close , back lane and waste ground , and to bring those people inside where they can take drug under medical supervision . not one person have die in any of these facility where they have operate in 100 city around the world , and I hope that its introduction will lead to a harm reduction approach in Scotland and help people to get on the right track to stay safe and improve their life . amendment ( h ) , which be table by I and my honourable colleague , call for an immediate ceasefire in the middle east . I struggle to cope with the scene of horror that be on our television screen every night . the horror of 7 October shock we all , as have the devastation since for the people of Gaza . both of these thing be incredibly difficult to process . how can people behave in this way towards their fellow human being ? I do not think I have ever receive as many email , even on Brexit , as I have receive these past four week . overnight , I have 500 email from constituent who be desperately worried about this situation and be demand a ceasefire now . both of these thing be incredibly difficult to process . how can people behave in this way towards their fellow human being ? I do not think I have ever receive as many email , even on Brexit , as I have receive these past four week . overnight , I have 500 email from constituent who be desperately worried about this situation and be demand a ceasefire now . I have to update the figure in my remark , because the death toll have of course rise . at least 4 , 506 child in Gaza have be kill — that be one child every 10 minute , and more than 100 child every single day . a further 1 , 500 child remain missing under the rubble of bomb - out building and be presume dead . the number of child kill in a single month of conflict in Gaza be more than eight time the number of child kill in Ukraine during the entire first year of the current war with Russia . many of the child who have manage to survive so far be sick or at risk of fall ill due to the lack of clean food and water . Oxfam have report five - hour queue at bakery and a very real risk of starvation . nowhere be safe from the airstrike , not even medical facility , which be protect under international law . only one hospital in northern Gaza be still operational , with very minimal service . the Al - Ahli Hospital , where my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Dr Whitford ) have work , be struggle to keep go . she await news of whether her colleague and the people she know have survive and of the current circumstance . Riham Jafari of ActionAid have comment on the concept of a humanitarian pause : " what use be a four - hour pause each day to hand community bread in the morning before they be bomb in the afternoon ? what use be a brief cessation in hostility when hospital ward lie in ruin and when road use to deliver medical supply and food be destroy ? " ActionAid have also talk about the situation face pregnant woman give birth under bombardment . give birth do not fit into a neat four - hour humanitarian pause . woman be give birth and have caesarean without anaesthetic , and baby be be bear into chaos and death — they can not be guarantee a ventilator to keep they alive . Waseem , an Oxfam staff member in Gaza , have say : " price have treble . the market be almost empty . there be a major shortage of essential food and essential item . no bread , no dairy product , no salt , no milk , no can food , no blanket or mattress . access to basic service be very limited . no electricity , no water , no gas , no health system and no education . we feel trap . " civilian , who have do nothing wrong , ask we , " how long can this go on ? " Vivian Silver , the 74 - year - old canadian - israeli peace activist who found Women Wage Peace , be confirm murder in the 7 October attack on kibbutz be ' eri . she be identify by her dna . she have work her whole life for peace . when the attack happen , she be have a discussion on the radio from her safe room before the phone cut out . she be challenge on her view on peace in the middle east and , even when an attack be happen and she be in her safe room , she say , " we can talk more about this if I survive . " we should listen to her bravery and commitment to peace this afternoon . her son , who have lose so much , be seek a ceasefire , because they know that this can not go on . we should commit to peace and understanding in her memory . how do this end ? all conflict , at some point , end — there be an armistice , an agreement and paper be sign . the question for all of we in this place be how long this current phase of conflict continue . when do it end ? the UK be always keen to talk up its position as a p5 member of the United Nations Security Council , but what be that worth when we do not back the UN Secretary - General when he call for a ceasefire ? in what reasonable circumstance should Ant ó nio Guterres have to go to the Rafah crossing to plead for aid to get through ? why be we not stand behind the Secretary - General and the United Nations ? if we do not strive for peace , we condemn yet another generation in Palestine and Israel to a cycle of violence , to death and destruction beyond our imagination . we commit ourselves to a two - state solution , to justice and to peace . we will vote on the King ' s Speech tonight , and we will vote on these amendment . it will not end the 70 - year - old conflict , but it give we a place to begin . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . it be a pleasure to listen to the Lord Chancellor open the debate with the characteristic moderation and eloquence that he bring to the Dispatch Box . I also welcome the two new Under - Secretaries of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) — my constituency neighbour — and my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , to the Treasury Bench . they be both great asset to the Government team . I welcome what the Lord Chancellor say in his speech . I will concentrate on justice - relate issue , give the pressure of time . the Justice Committee have , in fact , already work on some of these policy area , and I be grateful to he and his ministerial colleague for take on board some of the issue we have raise . we may want to press they a little far as we see the detail of legislation , but I welcome the move they have make . I appreciate their courtesy throughout our dealing . I will start with our recent report , " public opinion and understanding of sentencing " , which be important in the context of the Sentencing Bill and some provision of the Criminal Justice Bill . the report show that there be a real problem with the lack of a coherent approach to sentence policy in the UK , as well as an issue with public understanding of the objective of sentencing . in particular , there be insufficient analysis of the potential impact of sentencing change . this be not unique to the last few year ; it have be systemic for all the time I have be involve in politic , and probably for all the 30 - odd year I spend in practice at the Bar , specialise in criminal work , before come to this place . no Government take particular blame , but systemically we have perhaps not do enough to adequately collect and efficiently and fully use datum to drive evidence - base policy . I know the Lord Chancellor and his colleague understand that , and I know the Department be make move to improve it , which I welcome . these Bills be example of where we can try to put some of that into practice . that be certainly what our report be look to achieve . give the public ' s view that public protection be the top priority — we come to that conclusion after a very detailed sentencing exercise , I might add — I do not think people object to strong sentence for the most dangerous offence but , equally , we need to be alert to identify any potential unintended consequence . that mean we have to level with the public . if we repeatedly enact measure that increase sentencing , with the mantra of be tough on crime , we have to be honest with the public by say it will cost money . keep an adult male in prison cost £ 47 , 000 a year . if they be a danger to the public of if they commit the bad type of crime , that be money well spend , but the Lord Chancellor be quite right to look at alternative , where that money could be well use , for those who be not a danger and who be , in many respect , inadequate and have be fail much early in their life , lead to a chaotic situation . tougher sentencing be sometimes part of the mix , and rightly so , but smart sentencing be usually what be important . I think the Sentencing Bill recognise that and give we an opportunity to build on it . that be also important because of the capacity crisis we have identify in prison through our study of the prison workforce , where we have real difficulty in recruitment and retention . that be also important , as we can not have rehabilitation without sufficient and adequate staffing . as Winston Churchill say , " there be , in truth , a golden treasure in the heart of almost every man . " not everyone be redeemable , but very many be . far more than people in politic sometimes think . it be a good thing if we can turn people ' s live around through the prison system , because that mean less reoffende . that be why the presumption against short sentence be right . there be certain area , which have be mention , where we must carefully look at the detail but , overall , the evidence be overwhelming that short sentence do more harm than good . sentencing policy should be about evidence and prevent reoffende , not about soundbite and grab headline . I know the Lord Chancellor have adopt that approach . rise — I will give way once and once only , because time press . I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend . those be the argument that have be use for most of my lifetime : the idea that recidivism be cause not by punishment , or by retributive justice ; that somehow this be less important than the fact that , as he say , the people who commit crime have somehow be fail . for a long time this have be the prevail view in criminal justice , yet it have bring no decline in recidivism — rather , the opposite . before the hon . Gentleman come back on that , I must point out that if those who be try to catch my eye later intervene before they have speak , they will be move down the list . a lifetime of hold a particular mindset that be not support by evidence be not something I would boast about . I have follow the evidence , which show that short sentence do harm more than good . the Government have get the balance right and , with respect to my right hon . friend , I do not think that those who take a contrary view have . Prison do not always work . it work for the bad case but not for everybody , and let we be honest about that . that be exactly what the Lord Chancellor be try to do . finally on sentencing , I hope that when we get the Sentencing Bill we will be give a proper impact analysis on prison place and demand — I be sure that we will . as for the Criminal Justice Bill , we all recognise that when people thumb their nose at the victim of crime , people expect they to be see and hear the court pass judgment , but I welcome the tone adopt in the Bill , whereby ultimately the discretion must rest with the judge . it be fair to give the judge a further tool in the toolbox to use , but there will be case — the Lord Chancellor and I have see this — where people try to hijack the proceeding in order to grandstand or behave disruptively . the use of reasonable force be a well - establish concept . we do not want people be drag up , at the risk to prison officer , who do dedicate work and put their health and live on the line . we have to get a balance on this matter . the Bill achieve that and I commend the Lord Chancellor for deal with a sensitive topic in that way . I also hope that we will see in the Victims and Prisoners Bill the opportunity to take forward some of our Committee ' s suggestion on imprisonment for public protection sentence . we make a number of recommendation and the Lord Chancellor have take forward some of they , but I believe there be scope for more . he know my view on resentence but I be also talk in particular about the way in which the life licence work . I be sure that there be an opportunity to improve that greatly , so that we do not have people be set up to fail from the start . there be good and sensible measure in this Bill , I welcome they and I hope the House will support it . I be pleased to be call to speak in the King ' s Speech debate on police and criminal justice . as Chair of the Select Committee on Home Affairs , I be pleased that policing be get the attention it rightly deserve , but I say to the Government that far more need to be do quickly , particularly on the vetting and dismissal of police officer who should not be serve in our police force , and on specialist unit for investigate rape and serious sexual offence . it be disappointing that not all police force have those in place . our Committee , along with the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) , have also call for a spike offence . in recent week the Committee have be concern about whether we have the correct law in place to deal with some of the protest we have see and this issue of hateful extremism . we hope that the Government might address that as well . I totally agree with the call for a statutory definition of " child criminal exploitation " . the Committee have be call for that for some time . after today ' s judgment on the Rwanda policy , may I again commend to the Government our report on small boat , publish last year , which contain a range of policy option that the Government might want to look at again ? we look forward to work with the Home Office and Ministers , and to scrutinise proposal and policy that be base on evidence and a fully - cost model . I want specifically to address the Government ' s draft Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill , which be also know as Martyn ' s law . the Government be now plan to conduct a consultation before table the Bill in Parliament , and before respond to the pre - legislative scrutiny that the Committee conduct in the summer . however , it be worth remember that the Bill be a response to the terrorist attack at the Manchester Arena in 2017 and the recommendation of the inquiry , and it be design to help to prevent such an appalling crime from happen again . I pay tribute to Figen Murray , the drive force behind this legislation , whose son Martyn Hett be tragically kill in that attack . I hope that Ministers will be able to confirm the exact timetable for their consultation and when they plan to table the Bill in Parliament . sadly , we have learn from the King ' s Speech that the Government ' s priority for this Session do not include deliver justice to victim of the infected blood scandal , the big treatment disaster in the history of the NHS . that is , of course , despite the Government ' s accept the moral case for compensation , despite repeatedly assure we that they be work at pace , ready for the infected blood inquiry to report this month , and despite have receive final recommendation seven month ago from Sir Brian Langstaff on compensation , not to mention Sir Robert Francis KC ' s framework document , which be give to they 20 month ago . the Government do not even pledge to extend interim payment to bereaved parent , child and sibling , as be propose by Sir Brian Langstaff and recommend clearly in his report . I be sure that member from across the House whose constituent include those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal will join I in voice our deep disappointment that after 50 year , and five year of a public inquiry , with one victim die on average every four day , this King ' s Speech be yet another waste opportunity . I therefore table amendment ( q ) , with cross - party support , to try to put this matter right . let we be clear : the Government have have all the information and time they could possibly need to set up a compensation scheme . it appear that the miss ingredient be political will , and that be not surprising . with the appointment this week of the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) as the late Paymaster General , we have have nine holder of that post since the infected blood inquiry start in July 2017 . those receive infected blood be not to blame for what happen to they and for the decade of delay in get to where this issue now stand . they be certainly not responsible for the current state of public finance . I , along with colleague on both side of the House , will continue to push the Government every step of the way until they finally do what be right and deliver justice for this group . finally , I be really disappointed that the King ' s Speech contain nothing to deal with the bread - and - butter issue that my constituent care about , one of which be the inability to access NHS dentistry . that affect many part of the country and there be nothing in the King ' s Speech to deal with it . secondly , it contain nothing to deal with the coalition Government ' s have change planning permission requirement so that company want to erect telegraph pole outside people ' s house to extend broadband connectivity can just do that . in Hull , three or four company be do that without local resident be able to have a say in it . I hope that the Government will look at this matter again , and I have table a private Member ' s Bill on that basis . I shall speak mainly about the various Bills that be design to make our street safe , almost all of which I fully support — with one detailed exception . I also want briefly to express regret about two absence from the Gracious Speech , the first of which be that of any change to the social care system . that system have be creak for year and the Government ' s solution have be to give it some more money as a sticking plaster every year . we need much more radical change than that . we need a proper workforce plan , a strategy to keep old and more frail people in their home for long , both by redesign housing and by use technology . underlie it all , we need a much more stable funding system , where we do not rely on council tax — that be a big problem . the other absence be amendment ( q ) , refer to by the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , which I have sign . as she say , that scandal have be go on for a long time . she talk about when the issue come under the purview of the Cabinet Office ; that be so long ago , I be the Minister responsible , and it be hugely regrettable that , six year later , we have not make enough progress . let I turn to the criminal justice aspect of the King ' s Speech . they be clearly necessary and central to restore public confidence in the way we live in this country . even in a relatively prosperous and peaceful constituency such as mine , people have significant worry about area such as town centre feel less safe . legislation be require to address some of those issue , but obviously that be not the whole answer . the welcome increase in police number that we have see in recent year be equally important . I be delighted to congratulate Ministers and Kent ' s police and crime commissioner , Matthew Scott , on the fact that we now have a record number of police in Kent . that be a significant step forward , but there be always more to be do , some of which be address in the King ' s Speech . the Sentencing Bill strike the right balance . I be very happy to see the most dangerous criminal in prison for long and I echo my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , the Chair of the Justice Committee , in welcome the provision on short sentencing . my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) rise to ask a legitimate question about recidivism . look at the fact , short sentence of less than 12 month have a reoffende rate of 55 % , so people who have receive such sentence be more likely than not to reoffend , but the reoffende rate for those who have receive a suspend sentence order with requirement be less than half that figure , at 24 % , so the evidence be pretty stark that short sentence be not work to address the problem that my right hon . friend legitimately raise . I strongly support almost all the provision in the Criminal Justice Bill . I be particularly keen on introduce a statutory aggravating factor at sentencing for those involve in groom gang . I be very much in favour of increase the multi - agency management requirement on offender convict of coercive or control behaviour , because other agency need to get involve as well as the police . I be particularly keen on measure to tackle violence against woman and girl ; many member on both side of this House , as well as those outside , include police and crime commissioner , have do good work on that issue . for various reason , I be less convince by the proposal to give more power to the police to enter home without a warrant . the police have perfectly good power under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 , which give they various power to enter house , and I be not convince by minister ' argument for need more power . indeed , I be even less convinced when I read the explanatory note for the Bill , which say : " the Law Commission report , publish in 2020 , find that the process for apply for search warrant be extremely inefficient and delay cause by this increase opportunity for evidence to be lose . " we have , therefore , an important safeguard in place — the need for a warrant — but we be " extremely inefficient " in use it . instead of become efficient in use it , we will dispense with the safeguard altogether — I put it gently to colleague on the Front Bench that that be completely disproportionate and frankly not the sort of thing a Conservative Government ought to be do , so I hope my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor will think again about that part of the Bill . in general , I be very supportive of the criminal justice and sentence measure in the King ' s Speech . I think they be both necessary and timely , and can build on the success we have see in recent year , under many Home Secretaries , in enable the police to prevent and fight crime more effectively . the Bills be a significant part of a good set of measure in the King ' s Speech . despite my individual caveat on that one measure , I will be proud to support the Government in the Lobby at the end of the debate . I rise to speak to amendment ( b ) and ( h ) . on Monday night , the Prime Minister make a speech set out a vision for a foreign policy with morality and value at its heart . however , the absence of anything in the King ' s Speech that even come close to promote the UK as a positive and outward look nation show that this Government embody neither morality nor value . a foreign policy with morality at its heart would not leave over 2 million Palestinians trap in a humanitarian nightmare without food , water , medicine or power . a foreign policy that put value first would not be follow the direction set by Washington and the United States in address this conflict . a foreign policy that be build on morality would not stand by as over 11 , 000 Palestinians be kill , more than 27 , 000 be wound and 7 , 500 woman and child have their life take from they , or as school , hospital , church , mosque , refugee camp and home be reduce to rubble . a foreign policy that be drive by value would not still be advocate the four - hour pause that do nothing to alleviate the suffering of innocent man , woman and child , and do nothing to end the violence that those live in the region have face for decade . a foreign policy of morality and value would also not leave the Government unable to answer just how many palestinian life will be take before they condemn the action of the israeli military in Gaza that continue to violate international law — act of collective punishment that clearly fall within the definition of war crime . instead , a foreign policy of morality and value would , front and centre , advocate a ceasefire that end the bloodshed , allow desperately need aid to reach those most in need and create space follow the safe return of hostage from meaningful negotiation on a last peace . with over 11 , 000 palestinian civilian and 1 , 200 Israelis kill since 7 October , and ten of thousand more wound , it be clear to I , the United Nations and every single aid agency operate on the ground in Gaza that a humanitarian pause do not do enough and do not go far enough . the innocent man , woman and child of Gaza who be trap in the never - end nightmare of conflict , which they do not start and have no power to end , do not need a pause — they need it to stop . the only way we can achieve that be with a real and immediate ceasefire . I remain clear in my belief that that be the right thing to do and the right choice to make if we want to see both an end to the bloodshed and a last peace in the region , which no humanitarian pause will ever be able to achieve . that be why I stand down from the Opposition Front Bench . I also advocate for a ceasefire rather than brief humanitarian pause , because without a ceasefire — without a real break in the fighting — we will just see the unimaginable suffering , horror , death , destruction and devastation continue to unfold in Gaza . without a ceasefire , the bloodshed that have already leave thousand of innocent civilian dead and have wound so many more — that have leave child without parent , rob parent of their child , and see premature baby leave to die outside their incubator — will tragically continue . without a ceasefire , the desperately need aid and assistance that Palestinians urgently need and cry out for — food , water , fuel and medicine — will not be able safely to enter Gaza . we will not be able to reach those who be most in need , and that will lead to the death of many hundred and thousand more . without a ceasefire , the negotiation work towards a peaceful resolution and a real two - state solution , for which the region can not wait any long , will simply not have the space or the will to succeed . that be why I support the ceasefire amendment , and why I shall continue to advocate for a ceasefire to stop the bloodshed , to enable desperately need aid to reach those most in need , and to create space for meaningful negotiation . in a law and order context , there be a rich and sad irony in today ' s amendment on a ceasefire : the UK Parliament be soon to vote on a ceasefire in a conflict over which the UK have no control , and a ceasefire that neither side in the conflict want . Hamas openly say that they will fight on to kill as many Jews as possible — not Israelis , but Jews — and that they would do what they do on 7 October all over again if they could . they openly say that . Israel will destroy Hamas , and will be do the world and , indeed , the palestinian people a great service by do so . a ceasefire would play into the hand of terrorist and terrorism . the scottish nationalist , among other , have engineer an amendment to this debate to incommode and undermine the labour leadership , but what they actually undermine be community cohesion and the jewish community in this country . if I may , I want to address the jewish community in the United Kingdom . there be a great deal of fear in the jewish community , who feel decidedly unsafe and abandon , vulnerable and isolated , and who have effectively be ban from central London for several weekend now by the risible failure of police action and the one - side prejudicial reporting of the BBC and other . those factor have an adverse effect on law and order as well as on diplomatic move internationally . we hear of deep hatred for Israel from multiple quarter . why do we not see mass demonstration and similar response when hundred of thousand of Muslims and other be kill in conflict elsewhere ? some 600 , 000 civilian , include child , have be kill in the past year in Sudan and 300 , 000 in Yemen . there be countless dead in Ethiopia - Tigray and in Azerbaijan - Armenia . then there be China ' s hard - oppress Uyghur Muslims , and the wonderful Kurds be attack by Turkey , East Timor and so on . it be difficult not to come to the conclusion that the screaming about Israel be base on the ancient hatred of antisemitism . why else ignore large loss of life ? we see hate . we see dissent and we see division . I wish to appeal today , in the limited time available , to a different emotion , which be hope . I say to the jewish community in the UK and to those of any faith or of none who yearn for peace and reconciliation to be of good hope . there be much to be hopeful about . why ? one of the prime reason for the timing of the isis - style pogrom of 7 October be the bloom flower of a relationship between Israel and Saudi Arabia . it be apparently a few month away from fruition , and what a wonderful development that would have be . the saudi position , as the keeper of the holy place , be such that perhaps a dozen muslim majority country would have soon follow suit and open relation with Israel . however , all be not lose . the good news be that that will still happen , and the sign be that the Saudis will still pursue the project . for Jews and many other yearn for peace , it be something to look forward to . it would build on the historic Abraham accord of 2020 , when Bahrain and the UAE bond with Israel , and that arrangement have bear rich fruit . there be reason to be hopeful even with Iran . why there ? the theocrat in Tehran be irredeemable ; they support and fund terrorism in many area and oppress and torture their own people , but , in due course , the evil design of that clerical cabal will fail , just as the evil design of so many other motivate by hatred have fail . the iranian people be a wise and cultured people , and there be much to hope for there . recently , the people of Iran have be encourage by their regime to chant slogan against Israel , to trample on large israeli flag , place deliberately for that purpose at the exit of football stadium , and to carry out other stunt , but the persian football masse pointedly decline to do so . what bravery and what nobility — a good sign of hope for the future . what hope can we look to here in the United Kingdom ? I think a lot . we have see gang of proto - fascist , frankly , crowd around Marks & Spencer branch , for example , include one in Glasgow . I wonder why the SNP do not wish to mention that in debate . rise — the reality of the matter be that Marks & Spencer , which be once a jewish - own company but since 1926 have be own by thousand of shareholder , be now subject to antisemitic attack , 130 year after its foundation . Mr Marks first come to the UK escape , ironically , another pogrom , this one in the 1880 , but there be hope even there because I can tell the House that Marks & Spencer thrive like never before : its share be up 66 % this year . there be even more hope elsewhere . we have a Prime Minister who have support Israel ; a Leader of the Opposition who have withstand the brickbat and those who wish to divide , and be defend the jewish people from insult and prejudice ; and a sovereign , a King , who be a global leader and who will be a source for peace . there be no well hope than that . we can not discuss confidence in the criminal justice system and police without tackle the long and balefully negative influence of the aftermath of the Hillsborough disaster , which , although it be more than 34 year ago , have hugely impact how the police and public authority be see across Merseyside and beyond . the impact be widespread and intergenerational , and more need to be do to tackle it . I have hope that we would see a Hillsborough law in the legislative programme , to learn the lesson of the tragedy in which 97 people be unlawfully kill by the gross negligence of the police responsible for keep they safe . to date , none of the South Yorkshire police responsible for the disaster , or for the subsequent cover - up and campaign of vilification , have be hold to account , and now none probably ever will be , while the family of the dead and survivor have endure decade of wrongly be blame for what happen and feel that they have to defend the reputation of their love one from the ongoing ignorant attack spawn by South Yorkshire police ' s deliberate campaign to shift the blame from themselves . it be particularly difficult for family to feel frozen in time , forever be drag back to their dark day as they have to keep repeat to ignorant people what really happen : the finding of unlawful killing at the second inquest , and the finding of the Hillsborough independent panel — the truth of Hillsborough , in other word . yet the police campaign , aid by some newspaper , be so powerful and have be so enduring that we still hear tragedy chant at football match , blame Liverpool fan for what happen . one of the big comfort that the family of those who die and survivor who still suffer to this day could have be the assurance that Parliament have take step to prevent such problem from occur in the aftermath of such tragedy , yet we have not do so . that be why I have introduce my Public Advocate Bill , repeatedly block by the Government , since 2016 . that be why I support the more general call for a Hillsborough law to try to prevent what happen after Hillsborough from ever again affect victim and family who be catch up in public disaster through no fault of their own then find themselves treat with indifference or hostility by public authority , and their feeling ignore . there have be disaster since Hillsborough , and there will be more , although we must hope to keep they to a minimum . the Hillsborough law aim to rebalance the scale of justice towards family bereave by public disaster and towards survivor . first , it would establish a public advocate , independent of Government and able to act at the behest of family affect after major incident to give they a say , and to use the learning from the Hillsborough independent panel process on the huge power of transparency to stop thing go wrong as they do after Hillsborough . secondly , it would place a statutory duty of candour on public servant , not just the police , although I welcome the fact that the Government will legislate for a duty of candour on the police . that can only help to make thing well , but by itself it will not be enough to prevent the recurrence of an event such as Hillsborough . thirdly , the law would ensure proper participation of bereaved family at inqu through publicly fund legal representation , and ensure equality of arm by end the limitless use of public authority ’ budget to defend their reputation on those occasion , no matter what the circumstance . fourthly , it will make Bishop James Jones ' s charter for family bereave through public tragedy , which have be voluntarily sign by some , legally bind on all public body . the Government have recognise for year that there be thing that need to be change , but I be afraid they have be lamentably slow in do anything about they . Bishop James Jones ' s report , which the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) ask for when she be Prime Minister , be publish in 2017 . More than six year later there have be no response to it . I find that quite shocking . I have be press the Government to respond for all that time and there be no conceivable reason for they not to have do so — at least since May 2021 , when the last of the criminal trial collapse . it be now two and a half year since then and there be still no response . I can not understand what have hold they up . the fact that the response have not be publish be an insult to Bishop James and the work he do , and it be try the patience of family and survivor who have already have to wait too long . I keep hear that there will be a response soon , and I really hope that be true , but I be not hold my breath . the Victims and Prisoner Bill carry over from the previous Session do contain a proposal for a public advocate , which I have welcome . however , the Lord Chancellor know my view be that his proposal be not sufficient to make the public advocate useful in prevent thing from go wrong in future in the aftermath of disaster . it will simply be a signpost service for those family who be catch up . a signpost service be all well and good , and it be welcome , but unfortunately it be not go far enough . there be a real opportunity to make sure that family catch up in future public disaster do not have to suffer the same experience as the Hillsborough family , but his public advocate have neither the independence nor the power require to shift the dial in favour of family or to torpedo cover - up , which be the whole point . furthermore , it be to be direct solely by the Secretary of State , which will not give it proper independence . when the Bill come back for its remain stage in this place , which I hope will be before Christmas , I will keep try to make positive change to improve it , because otherwise it will be an opportunity spurn . I hope that Government Ministers on the Front Bench will give thought to improve the current proposal because , if they be enact as they stand , they simply will not be enough to make real use of the lesson to be learn from Hillsborough . let I start by say that I have read the amendment on the Order Paper tonight , and if I could bring the hostage home and stop the fighting on the street of Gaza , I would do it and I would do it now . but the truth be that I can not ; no one in this House can . I be a legislator in our domestic Parliament , so in this debate I want to speak out against the wickedness of antisemitism . it be not acceptable that any community should be cow or intimidate from display outward expression of their faith through fear of violence . let I be clear : whether it be Judaism , Christianity , Islam , Hinduism or any other faith , we allow people to express their faith visibly without fear of attack . that be fundamental to this debate . it be not right for any british citizen to be hold accountable for the action of a Government other than their own . my jewish friend and neighbour be british citizen . last Friday I talk to a young jewish doctor in the NHS who say , " Charles , be jewish in this country right now be very , very difficult . " those be not the exact word she choose , but the word I think I should use in the Chamber . worshipper leave a synagogue in Maida Vale on Saturday be abuse and suffer verbal threat . the synagogue be near where I grow up , near where I go to school ; it be where many of my friend worship . this be not acceptable . a house in north London display a mezuzah be daub in paint from top to bottom — not acceptable . without equivocation or qualification , I say this : I stand , with good and decent people of all faith , by the jewish community . and if any Jews face harm , I and those people will place ourselves in front of those Jews to defend they from that harm . that be a solemn commitment on my part . the jewish community in this country be small — 279 , 000 people — but it comprise my constituent , my family and my friend , and they be deserve of my support and the support of we all . let I get to the crux of the law and order part of this debate . we have to deal with this as a Parliament , and future Parliaments will have to deal with it . hate law do not stop hate . we wish that they would , but they do not . hate be one of the basest of human emotion . it be the consumption that consume the soul in the way that cancer consume our physical body . I be desperate to see peace — I really be ; I want to see peace in so many part of the world — but what history have teach we be that peace be reach when the cost of hate be so great , when too many people have be kill , when scythe be exhausted , when nobody can take it anymore . that be the moment that great man and woman of courage and enlightenment stand up , from both side of that division , and set their hatred and enmity aside , embrace each other , and hold out a hand . the world be a complicated , complex place . if there be simple solution , we would have find they by now ; they do not exist . but there be always hope . there be always hope on both side of this House . we settle our argument through debate , and we be friend on either side of the House . there be a big lesson in there for many . it be a pleasure to be call early in the debate . I usually wait a lot long — so get on with it ! " get on with it , " say the Labour Front Bencher . on justice , I hope that the Minister hear my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) speak about the violence reduction unit work be do in Scotland . I be a member of the cross - party Youth Violence Commission . there be a lot of work be do on this issue in Scotland . it be a public health issue and , yes , education and lifelong learning have a role in tackle it , as I hope the Minister will take on board . on the King ' s Speech itself , this have be an extraordinary five day . it start off with a lot of the hard right - wing rhetoric , and now we see that the Government have move , or be try to move , to a centrist position — it be quite extraordinary . I listen to the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) , and I have hear other . I hope that he will condemn the far - right thuggery we see at the weekend in London and elsewhere . those be not counter - protester — the phrase I have see be use — but far - right thug . every single Member of this House should condemn those individual , who wear a poppy on their jacket while show a swastika tattoo at the same time . it be an absolute outrage . those be despicable sight at the weekend . other measure be mention in the King ' s Speech . after today ' s Supreme Court judgment , it be obvious that there will be yet another immigration Bill — that have be an annual event in this place since I come here in 2015 — to try to fix the broken asylum system in this country . I be concern ; at my surgery in Govan on Friday , I meet a palestinian constituent who have be deny asylum by the Home Office . he have not hear from his family in Gaza for 10 day , and have be deny refugee status in the United Kingdom . that tell I how broken the asylum system be , and I hope that Home Office representative will meet I to discuss that particular case . what be most surprising about the King ' s Speech be that it contain very few measure to tackle the cost of live crisis — or , as I call it , the cost of greed crisis — that be take place across these island . it be interesting that in America , President Joe Biden have launch a food poverty strategy to eliminate food poverty by the year 2030 , but this government will not match that ambition here . I certainly intend to table a Bill on that issue , because we need a strategy to eliminate food poverty . far too many of our citizen across these island be go hungry ; it be a disgrace that that be happen in an economy like ours . it be be leave to the rest of we to develop a community shop network , sell food at affordable rate or at cost , to help people move away from food bank — from emergency need . we need that sort of system , and we need the Government to take food poverty in this country extremely seriously because , as I have say , far too many people be in food poverty , include far too many child . it make I weep when I hear some of the story report to my office of people who do not have the basic essential . we need essential guarantee in the universal credit system . it be incredible that we have this ridiculous situation in which the universal credit system , which be there as a so - call safety net , be no long a safety net for many reason . universal credit and the social security system be also break ; there be opportunity in the King ' s Speech for the Government to fix they , but sadly they do not . I associate myself with the remark of the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , about the lack of action on infected blood in the King ' s Speech . it be no long good enough for the Government to sneak out statement just before recess or prorogation , talk about the lack of action that be take place for far too many people who have be catch up in that scandal . we will continue to call that out ; there need to be debate and regular statement in this Chamber , so that member from all side of the House can call the Government to account for the snail ' s pace of action . lastly , I will be vote in the name of humanity and support a ceasefire in the Lobby tonight . it be a privilege to speak in today ' s debate , on a theme that many of we , and certainly our constituent , care passionately about : reduce crime and restore faith in our criminal justice system . I be very pleased to see the Victims and Prisoners Bill roll over , as well as the introduction of the Criminal Justice Bill and the Sentencing Bill , both of which be announce in the King ' s Speech . I will focus my remark on the Sentencing Bill . I have not be shy about outline the key catalyst for my journey into politic , but I hope the House will forgive I for raise it once more , because it be very relevant to today ' s debate . for member who do not know , when I be 13 year old my dad be kill by a single punch : one blow to the head and he be go in second . he be 35 when it happen ; it ' s funny but at the time I remember not think much about his age — he be my dad , so obviously he be just an old man — but now that I have reach the other side of 30 , it kind of make it all the more real and all the more stark . with no warning on a cold February Friday night , he be go , leave behind I and my mum , and his own mother , my amazing Nannan Sue , for whom my dad be her only child . I do not want to talk about the perpetrator or go into detail about our specific case , but I want to outline the sheer devastation that this incident cause my family . the family be the indirect victim of crime ; we may not have take a physical blow , but the impact of the psychological blow will be with we for life — a true life sentence . through a lengthy chain of event that follow , I have the privilege of be elect to this place , and I have make it my mission to raise awareness about the impact of single - punch assault . in a few week ' time , one Punch UK , an incredible charity , will be launch its annual " punch out Cold " campaign to show in quite grisly but necessary detail the impact that violence can have . it be to remind people that , yes , it be fine to go out over Christmas , have a few drink and get a bit merry , but it be never the right time to raise their fist . I hope Members across the House will support that campaign . why do I talk about my family ' s experience again today ? one of the headline in today ' s debate be raise confidence in the criminal justice system , and through my work with one Punch UK , I know all too well that many family who be the victim of single - punch assault do not feel that the criminal justice system be on their side . victim support be patchy and varied , and sentencing be feel to be far too low . some would even say that it be insultingly low . People have lose love one through these violent act and have see the perpetrator release within a year . I know that no sentence will ever feel enough to make up for the loss of a love one and the loss of all those future memory of what might have be , but we must do more to restore confidence in sentencing . there have be concern in the past about overly lenient sentence . indeed , in 2014 the Sentencing Council be ask by the then Lord Chancellor to develop a guideline for one - punch manslaughter , and a consultation be subsequently launch in 2017 . in the seven year prior to that , the average sentence for such offence be just three year and 10 month — frankly , a kick in the tooth for the family of victim who be already go through so much . new guideline eventually come into force on 1 November 2018 , but in my view , sadly they still do not go far enough . for single - punch assault , the low possible sentence in the guideline be just 12 month — 12 month where a life have be take , and where the family of victim do go through a life sentence . that be for those with the low culpability , and the guideline state this be for case where an unlawful act be commit , but where there be " no intention to cause any harm and no obvious risk of anything more than minor harm " , but I think many across the House would agree with I that that in itself be deeply flawed , because when throw a punch there be always an obvious risk of serious harm . I and the many one - punch assault campaigner I work with believe that sentencing for such assault should properly reflect that risk , so it be time for new thinking . that be why I would greatly welcome a discussion with the Justice Secretary — and the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , who I warmly welcome to his new role — about how the new Sentencing Bill could include a specific minimum sentence for one - punch manslaughter that fully reflect the severity of the crime and the real devastating impact on the family affect . that would be a concrete and tangible way that the Government could restore and raise confidence in the criminal justice system for the family of past victim and , heaven forbid , of future victim of single - punch assault . I have a little bit of time leave , so , more broadly , I join the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , in welcome the pragmatic approach take by the Lord Chancellor on sentencing , with the most serious offender rightly spend more of their sentence behind bar for the sake of public protection , while also focus on the very real need for rehabilitation for low level offender to , frankly , prevent petty criminal lose their own life to a vicious cycle of reoffende and incarceration . we know that criminal justice and social justice go hand in hand , so I be very pleased that the Ministry of Justice be take such a pragmatic approach , and I look forward to support the Lord Chancellor and the entire Justice team on this legislative agenda . I rise to speak to amendment ( h ) and ( r ) . as I have state publicly , the attack against innocent Israelis on 7 October be an egregious crime against humanity . the family of those kill continue to mourn the loss of their love one , and the family of those take hostage pray for their safe return . it would be a grave injustice not to recognise the act of terror commit by Hamas for what they be . in the same way , it would be a grave injustice if the world turn a blind eye while innocent Palestinians be be murder by the hour . More civilian have be kill in six week in Gaza than be kill in 20 month in the Russia - Ukraine war . More child have be kill in Gaza than the annual number of child kill across all conflict zone since 2019 . More United Nations worker have be kill in Gaza than in any comparable period in the UN ' s history , and more journalist have be kill in Gaza than in any conflict period since 1992 . hospital have be bomb , refugee camp have be bomb and United Nations school have be bomb . ambulance , bomb ; bakery , bomb ; mosque and church , bomb ; northern Gaza , bomb ; Gaza City , bomb ; Khan Yunis , bomb ; the Rafah border , bomb . almost every inch of the Gaza strip have be bomb . More than 11 , 000 innocent civilian have be kill , and the hope , dream , and future of nearly 5 , 000 palestinian child have end in mass grave . some 2 . 3 million people be flee death and destruction , with baby die in incubator , and pregnant woman have caesarean without anaesthetic . there be no fuel to power hospital , no food to feed the living , and when search for clean water , it be as rare as when search for gold . make no mistake , this be a humanitarian catastrophe . that be why I urge member to back an immediate ceasefire on all side , and push for the release of hostage . that call be back by 120 member of the UN Security Council , 17 UN agency , the UN Secretary - General , the World Health Organisation , the World Food Programme , Amnesty International , and more than 600 lead international non - governmental organisation , include Oxfam , save the Children , christian aid , medical aid for Palestinians , the UN Refugee Agency , the Pope and the Archbishop of Canterbury . it be back overwhelmingly by the british public , and now it be back by President Macron of France . almost every international aid agency in the world be say that vital humanitarian aid can not be deliver to people without a ceasefire . those be the very agency whose expertise we rely on in other conflict and take their lead , so why not this time ? we need a political solution to an issue that lead to peace , not one that end in a way so horrific that it embolden more terror in the region . injustice be the great barrier to peace , and we can not expect peace unless we enable justice to be deliver . nothing symbolise our british value well than the statue of Lady Justice tower over the Old Bailey . she be figuratively blind because justice be unbiased , with the scale represent the impartiality of decision , and the sword a symbol of power and justice . when Israel act with impunity and attack hospital , UN school and refugee camp , and the case for the Palestinians be veto by the US and UK at the International Criminal Court , the world ask whether our justice be really unbiased . when we rightfully condemn extremist and genocidal statement by Hamas , but fail to utter a single word about the genocidal rhetoric be spout by Netanyahu and his right - wing Government , the world ask whether our scale of justice be truly impartial . when we follow the path of justice and the rule of law in the face of Putin ' s aggression , yet Israel continue to defy UN resolution with empty word and no action , the world wonder where be the sword of justice . when we fail to provide equal application of justice , in the eye of the world , it be " one rule for the ally of the US and another rule for the rest . " — [ Official Report , 17 March 2003 ; Vol . 401 , c . 728 . ] those be not my word , but those utter by the former Labour Foreign Secretary , the late Robin Cook , in this very Chamber — word that sadly ring true 20 year on . our value push we to do well , which be why , despite all the risk to our personal position , we must do what be right . while it may be a matter of convention to follow our close ally , the US , in the interest of foreign policy , it be a matter of conscience to step away from our close ally in the interest of peace . we know that eventually there will be a ceasefire in this current crisis — every war end with a cessation of hostility . the question be not if there will be a ceasefire , but when . for the people of Palestine , every minute , every hour and every day that we wait be another orphan , another grieve mother and another family wipe out . that be why , in stand to save the innocent life of Palestinians and Israelis and in represent the people of Bradford West , I will be support the amendment that seek an immediate ceasefire . rise — it will be obvious to the whole House that a great many member wish to catch my eye this afternoon , so after the next speech I will have to reduce the time limit to five minute . [ interruption . ] there be no point in people complain . you come to I and tell I which of these people you want not to speak . we be talk about fairness here . [ interruption . ] it be a rhetorical question — I will stop dig . a number of member have reference the appalling practice of spiking , so I will begin by commend my constituent Mandy and Colin Mackie , who found Spike Aware UK follow the tragic death of their son , Greg , who have his drink spiked . I support their campaign to have a law criminalise spiking introduce in Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom . there be much to welcome in the Gracious Speech , particularly the strong focus on tackle crime and keep community safe from crime and antisocial behaviour . the propose measure for ensure tough sentencing for the most serious offence and increase the confidence of victim will , I be sure , receive strong support not just from member on the Government Benches , but across the country . the devolved nature of policing and justice in Scotland mean that my constituent and everyone live in Scotland will not automatically get the benefit of those change . that would require equivalent action from the Scottish Government , who have responsibility for policing , tackle crime and the justice system . the experience of my constituent and of community across Scotland be that when it come to these matter , SNP Ministers promise big but deliver small . on police number , for example , the SNP Government come to power in 2007 on a commitment to recruit and maintain 1 , 000 extra police officer over and above the 16 , 234 full - time equivalent officer who be then in place . sixteen year later , the number of police officer in Scotland be a little over 16 , 000 — right back to where we start from . in the word of David Kennedy , the general secretary of the Scottish Police Federation : " the state of affair in Scotland for police at the moment be pretty bleak . " there be few cop on the street . when we ask around , people no long see the police on the street . from my own contact with constituent , I know just how much they value and respect the work of officer work in their community , but time and again concern have be raise with I that there be simply not an adequate number of police officer work within local community to provide they with the reassurance they need and deserve . I have be give that clear message most recently by local people in Peebles and Gretna in my constituency , where concern have be put to I over the increase disorder and other type of antisocial behaviour . continue report from those community and other of antisocial behaviour , drug dealing and vandalism be worry , and they be clearly make life miserable for the law - abide majority . there be no doubt that the Scottish Government have not be provide Police Scotland with the resource it need to properly respond to crime or to be as visible as local people expect . the truth be that the SNP know that be the case . speak in the Scottish Parliament just a month ago , Emma Harper , the SNP MSP for South Scotland , say : " I understand that v division in Dumfries and Galloway be struggle to meet the demand of its large rural region with the current number of officer … what specific action be be take " — by the Scottish Government — " to recruit police officer to rural area such as Dumfries and Galloway as a priority ? " — [ Scottish Parliament Official Report , 25 October 2023 ; c . 22 . ] Ms Harper be entirely right to be ask why the Scottish Government have not take the urgent action need to recruit and maintain police officer in community such as the one I represent . my constituency be cover by three police division . in Dumfries and Galloway , there be a total resource complement of 392 officer in 2019 . three year on , that have drop to just 354 . in Lanarkshire , three year ago there be a total complement of 1 , 404 ; it be now 1 , 366 . in Lothian and Borders , in 2019 there be a local complement of 946 officer , which have now fall to 907 . it be the same picture right across Scotland . I will therefore use this occasion to urge the Scottish Government to take a page from the King ' s Speech and give a proper focus to keep community safe from crime and antisocial behaviour , ensure tough sentencing for the most serious offender , rebalance the justice system to put the right of victim over those of criminal , and restore the proud tradition of community policing , which have serve constituency such as mine so well over the year , by give our police the resource and increase manpower they need to do their job and keep local people safe . I call Michael Shanks to make his maiden speech . Mr Speaker , may I start by thank you and all the staff of the House for the very warm welcome that I have receive — and for all their help when I have so obviously become lost while move around the building ? I be glad that I choose a quiet political day on which to give my maiden speech . it be a pleasure to speak in this King ' s Speech debate , and in a debate focus on improve our justice system . there be much that we can do not just to talk about be tough on crime , but to understand its root cause and tackle the underlie issue , not least the poverty of opportunity that lead so many into criminal activity . before I qualify as a teacher , I spend several year work with young people involve in gang and offending . they be not bad people ; they be not bear bad . they be people often without hope that their life could be anything more than what they currently experience . when you lose hope , when your aspiration be limit by your experience , when you be unemployed or exclude from school , be it any wonder that a gang start to seem like a reasonable option ? I be glad that the police in England be learn from wonderful project in Scotland , as mention by my friend the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , such as the violence reduction unit , which I do a lot of work with . the key to such preventative project be to continue invest , not to cut and run when crime stat go down . prevention absolutely work , but in order for it to work we have to keep on prevent . it be an absolute honour to stand here as the Member of Parliament for Rutherglen and Hamilton West . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) , who give his maiden speech a few week ago , that he set the bar very high and somehow also manage to make I feel very old for have be bear before the 1997 general election . I should say that I be not too old , as I be still aged in single digit when Tony Blair become Prime Minister — something I share with my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) , who give an outstanding maiden speech yesterday . I also welcome to the Labour Benches my hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) , who be similarly new to this place . it be get to the point where we will have a maiden speech every week — perhaps a general election will not be necessary after all for Labour to form the next government . it be customary in a maiden speech to praise one ' s predecessor , and I hope that the House will permit I to praise my predecessor . the cause of the by - election will not have escape many hon . member , but I meet countless people across my constituency who praise Margaret Ferrier ' s attention on matter of casework and local issue . credit be due to she for that . towards the end of her time in this place , she also start to give the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — he be not in his place , for a change — a run for his money on participation in debate . I hope that I can match at least some of her parliamentary energy . I also pay tribute to my predecessor Ged Killen , Tom Greatrex and Lord McAvoy for their dedication to the constituency over many year . Rutherglen and Hamilton West be steep in industrial and political history . Rutherglen itself be one of the old royal burgh in the land , grant its royal charter by King David in 1126 . that mean that in 2026 Rutherglen will celebrate its 900th anniversary , which the community be look forward to mark . Blantyre be the home of David Livingstone , and the museum that stand where he grow up be not just a thriving monument to his life , but a reflection on his complex past as both an abolitionist and a fervent supporter of colonialism . across the constituency there be a legacy of coalmining , iron and steelmaking , such as the Clydebridge steelwork in Cambuslang , which stand as a sad reminder of the industrial decline of community such as mine across the west of Scotland . as a Labour MP , the root of our founder Keir Hardie be in Lanarkshire . it be in Rutherglen , then call Mid Lanarkshire , in 1888 — just a short century before I be bear — that he first stand for election . for SNP Members , the area also see one of their most famous by - election in 1967 : the election of Winnie Ewing , whom we sadly lose just a few month ago . the seat also hold electoral history for another reason , which I thank the House of Commons Library for double checking : until my by - election result , the only time that Labour take a seat in a scottish by - election be in 1964 , in Rutherglen . then , the seat be take from the Tories . this time around , it be the deposit that be take from the Tories , and not return . [ laughter . ] I thank everyone who support the by - election and our volunteer . I be proud to say that , unlike some other party in this place , our campaign do not rely on zero - hour - contract leafleteer to deliver our election material . enough of history . Rutherglen and Hamilton West ' s past be not all that it should be proud of . it be a patchwork of vibrant community , from Burnhill and Rutherglen in the west on the border with Glasgow , to Fernhill and Whitlawburn in the south , stretch through Burnside , Cambuslang , Newton , Halfway , Blantyre and the western edge of Hamilton , which sadly will leave the constituency follow the boundary change . some member may know of my somewhat irrational running challenge during lockdown , when I set out to run every single street in Glasgow , achieve it some two year and 2 , 300 km later . I have set myself the challenge now of run every street in my constituency — something I encourage all hon . member to do in their own path , though that suggestion be dismiss in horror by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) when I suggest we take it on together . on my way around the street in a by - election that take six month , I meet so many incredible people do so much in their community . it be a constituency with a fantastic sense of pride , from the various gardening group that brighten up the street to the charity and organisation such as Leap , Healthy n Happy , the Fernhill bingo , the bowling club or even Mo ' s famous shop in Blantyre , which operate more as a community centre than a shop . they do so much to bring the community together and reduce the social isolation that so many people feel , especially after the pandemic . it be a community full of hard - work , decent people who be not shy of tell anyone what they think , as any journalist who camp out on the main street of my constituency will remember during the recall petition and the by - election . they want the absolute good for their community and their family . but they be rightly angry , politically scunnere at be let down time and again by government distract and divide at the very moment they need they most . devolution promise we the chance to make decision unique to Scotland in Scotland , but so often of late it have become a place not of high ideal of public policy but of manufacture grievance and division . Donald Dewar speak of the Scottish Parliament as a means to revitalise " our place in this our United Kingdom " . it feel to most scot today that neither the SNP nor the Conservatives be revitalise anything . our much too slow march towards social justice continue to elude far too many . my first contribution in this House be to ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions to make work capability reflect the complexity of people with neurological condition . it be a cause close to my heart , as be disability more generally . far too many people ' s potential be still limit by factor outwith their control . system that we put in place so often hold people back . complexity in the benefit system force people into poverty and destitution . a fundamental lack of compassion and understanding stall people ' s ambition right at the moment it should be unlock they . another Lanarkshire Labour MP and a political hero of mine , John Smith , put it well in 1993 : " a choice between Labour ' s opportunity society which invest , which educate and which care , and the sad reality of neglect , division , and rise crime that be Tory Britain today ; a choice between Labour ' s commitment to democratic renewal , right , and citizenship , and John Major ' s centralised , secretive and shabby Government " . fast forward 30 year and he could be talk about where we be today : a Government who be incapable of deliver the change my constituent need . it have become fashionable of late — perhaps it always be fashionable — to denigrate politic . it be not hard to see why people see our deliberation here as foreign to their daily life . but I have also see , in the few short week I have be here , mps from across this House championing cause that may only affect a few people , but affect they greatly . as I use to tell my pupil when I be encourage they to vote , politic change our life for well or ill and it be our responsibility to engage with it meaningfully . have be elect , I be amazed to discover my former pupil take to tiktok to speak positively about I , which I have to say , work with teenager , be not necessarily guarantee . but I would also say on reflection , Mr Speaker , that since I arrive in this place I be discover that the behaviour I sometimes use to complain about in the classroom might have be more impressive than I think . [ laughter . ] I have no doubt that over the come week and month I will wrestle with complicated issue and seek to further my understanding of topic I will openly admit I need to know a lot more about . none of we have all the answer — although I suspect that may come as a surprise to some hon . member — but complexity should not be something we shy away from . Nuance , which seem so lack in our political discourse today , no doubt in part because of the role of social medium , be an essential part of come up with the common - sense solution that work for people . be able to disagree without be disagreeable should not only be possible , but something we strive for . with a general election on the horizon , who know how long I might be sit on these Benches — at least on this side of the House . the " opportunity to serve , " as John Smith put it , be about put our value into practice . I do not want to be here just oppose the Tories , but on the other side replace they . for every day I be here , I hope I can serve the people of my constituency well . I hope I have the confidence to stand up for those who be too often voiceless in our society , and at least try to change some of what hold back so many people in my community . this place be full of people with a wonderful calling , and I hope I can do the people who send I here proud in the time that I have . what a pleasure to follow the thoughtful eloquence of the new hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) . one of his predecessor , Tom Greatrex , shadow I when I be the energy Minister and become a great friend . I hope that he , too , might become a good friend over time . when I be a boy , still young than the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) , I attend my first Conservative party conference in 1975 . Margaret Thatcher , the new conservative leader , declare then that " the first duty of Government be to uphold the law . if it try to bob and weave and duck around that duty … then so will the govern , and … nothing be safe — not home , not liberty , not life itself . " for a civilised society be an order society , and because it be the most vulnerable — the old , the frail and the less well - off — who live on the frontline of disorder , they must be protect from it . the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West speak about the hopelessness that can lead to when people feel they be exactly that : on the frontline of crime . for that reason , a prerequisite of social solidarity be a civil order where law be enforce , justice prevail for all and the guilty be punish . we in this place must stand in defence of the gentle . yet too often in my lifetime , those who shape criminal justice have be impervious to the harm their doctrine do . detach from the concern of hard - work people , those with power be too often influence by guilt - ride , bourgeois liberal . too many member of this opinion - form elite have lose any sense of proportion about what matter and what do not . they be unable to gauge the significance of triviality which waste time and resource ; unable to tell the difference between the petty and the pertinent . many people often believe , rightly , that the criminal justice system be more interested in hurt feeling than in the hurt that crime cause . they can not understand why element in the police appear to care more about silly social medium than they do about burglary and theft . it be preposterous that half the call pass on to frontline police in recent year have be about social medium . figure release in June reveal that the proportion of crime result in a charge or summon be just 5 . 7 % — a slight increase on last year ' s figure , by the way — which mean that 95 % of crime in England and Wales go unpunished , and that be leave aside those that be not even report . meanwhile , in the five year to 2023 , an incredible 120 , 000 people be record for " non - crime hate incident " . cause offence may be rude , but be it really worthy of police time ? the liberal elite who offer a multitude of platitude about equality be none the less content to see a two - tier justice system in which cultural relativism determine what be investigate and what be not . the law must be apply equally to all , whether they be eco - fanatic or islamic extremist . for such character , in the absence of a sense of proportion , anything can be legitimise in the cause of self - righteous purity , and that include , when they glue themselves to road , stop ambulance take the sick to hospital . we must end the culture of excuse and reward deviant and wicked behaviour . I recall from when I study criminology at university in the 1980 a seminal book , " rehabilitation and deviance " , which show that a rehabilitative ideal have become so institutionalised that the criminal justice system have become disconnected from the core concept of justice . crime be not an illness to be treat . it be a malevolent option choose by those who carelessly harm and damage people , largely out of greed or spite or malice , yet too many heinous and hardened criminal receive risibly lenient sentence . we should not be let people out of prison early , nor should we be suspend custodial sentence for persistent prolific offender . that be not what the public expect , it be not what our constituent want , and it be not fair because it be not just . crime must be punish , and punishment matter because the public want to see law - abide , decent , patriotic people protect from the minority who seek to do they harm . be that too much to ask ? no authentic Conservative should vote for early release , and no authentic Conservative should vote for the end of custodial sentence . if any do , they must answer to their constituent . let I begin by make three point . first , I must congratulate the new hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) on a sparkling maiden speech . it be worry for an old chap like I to see such talent in one so young — but I have every confidence that we will see great thing from a colleague in the year to come . secondly , I strongly endorse the remark make by my good friend the right hon . member for — let I get this right — Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) . what he say about the police reflect my own early intervention . it be true , and it be as true of the highland of Scotland as it be of the south of Scotland . it be too bad that we be lose so many cop in the way we be . thirdly , I want to put on record my pride in amendment ( o ) , which stand in my name and those of my colleague . it will not be take today , but I be proud to have be part of it . the amendment make three fundamental point . we hear from the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , who be no long in the Chamber , some figure show how many innocent people be be kill . it be absolutely abhorrent and appalling . my party and , I believe , many other believe that a two - state solution be fundamental to the future of that part of the world : it be the foundation , the rock , on which we can build peace in the long term . I have be to Gaza . it be a hell on earth before this late bombardment and it have be absolutely flatten over the last few week . the hon . Member will know that one of the lesson from our peace process be that the only way to bring about a political settlement be to stop the killing first . when 1 , 400 Israelis and over 11 , 000 Palestinians lie dead , surely now be the time to stop the killing and call for an immediate ceasefire . that be precisely why the second main point in my party ' s amendment be a call for a bipartisan ceasefire right now . I also want to emphasise that the future of Gaza must not be about Hamas . we have to be very clear about that . leave those introductory remark aside , I be surprised that the King ' s Speech do not refer to global warming or climate change . as some right hon . and hon . member know , the extreme far north of Scotland have see some very severe weather . wick harbour be damage in the recent storm , and if that be not deal with speedily it will undermine or threaten the future of the harbour . offshore wind development such as the Beatrice wind farm depend on Wick harbour , as do the Royal National Lifeboat Institution . in that same weather , the protective wall for the railway line lead from Inverness to Wick and Thurso in the far north fall away , and for a period of time we have no train whatsoever . that prompt the question of whether Network Rail be inspect the sea defence in the way that it should have be . I await answer on that . this weather be real ; it be happen . when I be young , we do not have weather like this . we now have flooding , landslip and all sort of damage . I have speak many time in this place about pregnant mother have to travel 200 mile back and forth to give birth in Inverness . now that the road and rail transport link could be dodgy , it make the ludicrous decision to downgrade the maternity service base in Caithness even more dangerous to pregnant mother . I be glad that nothing bad have happen , but we have have a near miss with one of two twin be bear in Golspie and the other in Inverness . it be just too bad , and I hope and pray that one day this issue will be revisit . besides the weather , it be hugely important that everything that the Government do — be it the Scottish Government or the national Government — have to be about address and prepare for climate change . I hope that much work will be do on this , and that much will be say in the future , but we have to get it go now before there be more damage and before my constituency ' s infrastructure be far undermine . it be very much in the good interest of my constituent that this work be carry out as soon as possible . I shall conclude my remark by again congratulate our young colleague , the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West , on an excellent speech and I look forward to hear his contribution in the year to come . it be a great pleasure to join today ' s debate . I would like to remind my constituent that this debate be about the policing and criminal justice element of the King ' s Speech , follow by a vote on a simple vote of thank for that King ' s Speech . that King ' s Speech lay out our king ' s Government ' s legislative programme , which in this context be about law to reduce serious violence and violence against woman and girl , and about raise confidence in policing and criminal justice . I wholly support my constituency neighbour , the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Alex Chalk ) , and his commitment to toughen sentence for the bad crime , such as rape , while use community sentence more creatively for much small crime . I hope that he will continue to listen to my belief that define spiking , update the Offences against the Person Act 1861 and use new language to have a strong nudging impact on young people will form a crucial part of protect our constituent well . it be particularly good to hear my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) say similar thing early , not least on behalf and in support of Mandy and Colin Mackie ' s Spike Aware UK cause , which they establish on behalf of their son Greg . I hope my right hon . friend ' s constituent will join Dawn Dines and her stamp out Spiking cause . with many supporter on both side , the Lord Chancellor would be work with the grain of feeling in this House , and I hope the new Home Secretary will work closely with he . I now turn to the amendment to the Humble Address . my muslim constituent make an enormous contribution to community across Gloucester , and they make a huge contribution to the multicultural diversity for which our city be such a success , not least at Widden Primary School , which comprise more than 50 different nationality . I be very conscious that many of my muslim constituent feel that today ' s debate be about Israel , Palestine and Gaza , and perhaps do not know that this be effectively a vote of confidence on the Government ' s legislative agenda and the specific policing and justice issue cover in today ' s debate . the Government ' s approach to Israel , Palestine and Gaza have be lay out several time , not least in two statement in the last week . frankly , the SNP table its amendment to try to embarrass and divide the Labour party . and labour ' s amendment , which summarise the Government ' s position well , be table to give any embarrassed Labour Members something to vote for , in the absence of call for a ceasefire — something over which none of we have any control . I have be to Gaza twice , and I see the horror of Operation Cast Lead in 2010 . what be happen today be many time bad . it be a humanitarian disaster , but neither side — neither Hamas nor Israel — be call for a ceasefire . there be still large number of hostage and british citizen in Gaza who need to be release , and who need to get out . it be not remotely my task to try to defend what Israel have do over many year in the occupy territory , but today be not the moment to call for a ceasefire when neither side have any intention to observe one and when Hamas have make it clear that they will continue with 7 October - like attack and massacre for as long as possible . I will therefore not be support the SNP and Labour amendment . I will abstain on they and strongly support the Humble Address in response to the King ' s Speech . our legislative programme , particularly on policing and criminal justice , be one that we should all strongly support . in the time between the King ' s Speech last Tuesday and today ' s debate , we have have not only a former Prime Minister parachute into a new Cabinet job , but yet another Housing Minister . that be 15 Housing Ministers in the last 10 year , four more than the number of Chelsea manager over the same period . it be simply not possible to build the house we need with that level of chop and change , and when the average life expectancy of a Housing Minister be less than nine month . what can our new Housing Minister look forward to in the next parliamentary session ? we have finally have sight of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , but whether it mean we will see an end to section 21 no - fault eviction be anybody ' s guess , as that depend on reform the court . after 13 year of Tory governance , we hear a King ' s Speech that ignore the real problem that many of my constituent face every day . the problem I hear about more than any other in my weekly advice surgery be the chronic lack of social housing . I see number of constituent evict and place in temporary accommodation outside London , hundred of mile from their home . Merton may have the low number of family in temporary accommodation , stand at between 400 and 500 family , but that be 400 % more than the norm . it be small in comparison with the neighbour borough of Croydon , which have 4 , 000 family in temporary accommodation , and Wandsworth , which have more than 3 , 500 . council across the country be threaten with bankruptcy because they simply can not afford the temporary accommodation bill . the quality of temporary accommodation be almost universally poor and , shockingly , there be not even a requirement that family with child under two should have access to a cot . that be important because , after read the datum from the national child mortality database , we know that 34 homeless child die between 2019 and 2021 as a result of the temporary accommodation they be house in — most of they be under one . the most likely cause of death be sudden infant death syndrome because of a lack of safe sleeping provision , such as cot . in the fifth large economy in the world , child be die due to a lack of access to a cot . surely there be room in the King ' s Speech for a commitment to end that shameful statistic . the all - party group on household in temporary accommodation will be lead a campaign in the come session to provide a cot to every family with a child under two live in temporary accommodation . whether or not the Government provide desperate family with a cot , we will still need the plan and the policy to build more house . that be why I be delighted to hear my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition raise in his conference speech the issue that I and many other have work on in the past few year with Professor Paul Cheshire of the London School of Economics : build on the grey belt . within London ' s green belt alone there be enough non - green site surround train station for more than 1 million new home . my frustration here be not about park , hill or area of environmental protection , but the scrappy plot of land in town and city , surround railway station , that no one in their right mind would see as attractive . I be talk about the car wash in Tottenham Hale , the scrubland in Ealing , the waste plant in Hillingdon and the concrete airfield in Wisley — site that no one in their right mind would recognise as green belt if it be not for their designation . I issue a plea to the Government : build on the grey belt to give my constituent the home they deserve and give child a cot , because they desperately need one . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) , against whom I have the privilege of stand in 2015 , when I be resoundingly defeat . that show the quality of her work and the way in which she go about thing in this place , and I pay tribute to she . it be a privilege to speak in this debate on the King ' s Speech , because I genuinely believe that crime and sentencing be one of this Government ' s key success in the past 13 year . this Government have deliver on reduce crime and make sure that we back our police on the street of our country . crime be down by 50 % , from 9 . 5 million record case in 2010 to 4 . 3 million today . that be a real success story , and I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s approach to offer rehabilitation to the offender who would genuinely benefit from it , while make sure that we have tough sentence for those who deserve to be behind bar for long . we have more police on our street now , with 584 in Hampshire alone , which mean more crime be solve in my constituency . before I talk about the impact on Eastleigh , let I say gently that this afternoon we have have the same old Labour party , with Labour Members constantly carp about what we have not do but offer no alternative vision for this country . member opposite can criticise I , but , when I be a parliamentary private Secretary at the Home Office , the shadow Home Secretary would constantly stand up to say that we have not go far enough but would never say what she would do . the only thing that Opposition member have do be vote consistently against this Government ' s plan for tough sentence , more police and sort out our immigration system . the british public will see that when Opposition member have to put themselves up at the ballot box in a year ' s time and they will be find want . I want to talk about this King ' s Speech and what the Government ' s record on crime and sentencing have do for my constituent . as well as the focus on rehabilitation and tough sentence , we have , through the work of this Government and our excellent conservative police and crime commissioner , Donna Jones , recruit 582 more police . she have plan for more because , through devolution , the Government have give she the ability to channel fund into recruit even more police . that have be enable by a clear commitment by this Government and Prime Minister — and the last two Prime Ministers , actually — to ensure we have more police on the street than we have when we take over in 2010 . after a three - year campaign , I be delighted that Donna Jones have listen to I and secure a new police station in Eastleigh town centre to tackle antisocial behaviour and crime — with a focus on local crime , which be blight many of our town centre — that be fully accessible to my constituent , with a front desk , and CID and investigatory facility in the building . that show this Government ' s action to give people and pcc the accountability and service they want , and give pcc that power deliver for the people we represent . although there be a lot of good thing in the King ' s Speech and there be much to celebrate , I want to tackle the Minister on an issue that have be a consistent driver for many colleague in Hampshire and for I in Eastleigh : a fairer funding formula for Hampshire police . many hon . member think Hampshire be a leafy county , as it be in many part , but Eastleigh town centre be not leafy ; it be a working - class , ex - railway town that have specific issue with crime . Southampton and Portsmouth , two ex - industrial city , also suffer with specific issue of crime . we simply do not get fund enough to deliver on the number of police we need in certain locality , such as Southampton and Eastleigh . we have have promise from various police Ministers that they would look into this , but they have not do so . when the responsibility be hand out to the new Ministers in the Department , I ask the Minister responsible for police to look at that again and meet I to discuss how we increase that funding . I fundamentally believe that this be a good king ' s Speech , and that the Government have a proud record to defend on tackle crime for our constituent . as I say early — [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) , can shout at I , but I say to he again : the people of this country have see a Government who have tackle and reduce crime and deliver more police on the street , while the Labour party have do what it always do , which be to offer no alternative plan and to vote against the strong action we have take . it be the same old Labour party — that be what it always do . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate . if we need further proof that this Government be out of idea and time — I be not go to mention the speech make by the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) — the King ' s Speech provide that evidence , because it take no action on the issue my constituent face on a daily basis . it do not even come close . it do nothing to deal with the cost of living crisis , the housing crisis or the climate crisis . let I start with the cost of living crisis , if only to remind those on the Government Benches who seem to have forget the impact it be have on million across the country . the cost of a loaf of bread be 20 % high than it be this time last year . how be family able to purchase basic essential at a time of rise price ? inflation may be fall , but that do not mean that price be fall . how be family to afford housing when there be a chasm between housing allowance and the low rent , and when mortgage rate be soar ? how be family mean to save for the future amid the long squeeze on wage for generation ? real average weekly earning have increase by £ 5 since 2010 , in stark contrast to the 14 % increase experience between 2000 and 2010 under a Labour Government . the Government simply do not see the housing crisis as a priority . we be now on our 16th Housing Minister in 13 year . promise in 2019 , the Renters ( Reform ) Bill be subject again to indefinite delay because of the need for legal reform , but every week I receive email from constituent who have be give a section 21 notice . they tell I about the exhausting experience of be evict from the place they call home and have to live in a state of limbo , to pack up belonging and to leave support network and employment at immense personal , mental and financial cost . there be nothing in the King ' s Speech to protect renter , just far delay and inaction . the Government promise to end rough sleeping by 2024 , but — again — look at their record : rough sleeping have rise by 74 % since 2010 . on the climate crisis , the Government have take this opportunity to legislate for annual oil and gas licensing round , deepen our dependence on dirty , expensive , volatile fossil fuel that will not only torch the climate commitment they have make , but undermine energy security . this will not bring down energy bill at home — not my word , but the word of the current Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . energy bill be double what they be two year ago . by comparison , Labour would make the UK a clean energy superpower , go much fast on renewable and cut bill for struggle family . in his conference speech , the Prime Minister promise change . he do so because everywhere he look there be a record of failure . the country know that it be not the conservative party that will deliver change . it be only a Labour Government who can lead we to an era of national renewal . I want to use my final minute to express my disappointment that my own Care Supporters Bill , which I be put through Parliament , be ignore during the King ' s Speech . it include the important principle that the care of a love one be not an optional extra when a person be in a hospital or a care home . I ask Ministers once again to consider pass this legislation in the little time that they have leave . it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate on the King ' s Speech . much of the work on crime and policing , I of course welcome : tough sentencing for the most serious criminal ; action on groom gang ; and action on criminal gang facilitate illegal migration . it be incredibly important , too , that we think about low - level crime , such as shop theft , that be blight many of our community . in Ipswich town , which I represent , we have see an increase in shop theft . it be almost at the point where it be outstrip pre - covid level . Data be often not collect on a number of crime , so we must have a deterrent in place . we have reach a stage where some business in Ipswich town centre be lock their door and people must ring a bell to be allow in , which be have a significant effect on footfall . there be also group of man hang around and behave in an intimidating way , and this be put a number of my constituent off of go into the town centre . I lose count of the number of time that , when I knock on door in my constituency , I be tell by people that they go shop elsewhere — that they be shun their own town centre . that be utterly depressing for people who care passionately about the future of their town . I have just do a survey on the town centre . I ask people which two option out of eight be the most important to get they back into the town centre ; the first be the police adopt a new zero - tolerance approach to antisocial behaviour and crime . I will be work on with Suffolk Constabulary and the Home Office to make sure that that happen . on the protest that we have be see recently , I and a number of my constituent be absolutely appalled and shock by some of the activity that take place in our nation ' s capital last weekend . there be antisemitic poster display a hatred that we hope have no place in our society . we see the police post picture of individual spread hate — the bad form of hate and racism . those individual be not challenge at that moment ; it be not enough to post picture of these individual after the event , say , " who be they ? can you help we ? " the police should get in there straightaway , hold these people to account and punish they for the hate they be spread . to be perfectly honest , however strongly someone may feel about any cause , whether it be what be happen in Palestine or anything else , if they can not put their poster and banner aside for two day to remember our war hero , they should take a serious look in the mirror . People can protest on a Monday , on a Thursday or on a Friday , but that weekend be dedicate to remember the good of we — the people who have die fighting for this country and its value . I resent the fact that the marche go ahead at the weekend . I do not think that they should have happen at all , and I make my view incredibly clear on that . I find it utterly depress that hundred of thousand of people seem to be prepare , and think it be okay , to go on that kind of protest instead of respect the people who fight for this country , for what it be , and for its value and institution . will the hon . member give way ? no , I be not go to give way in this speech . I have great respect for the police of this country , but that do not mean that they do not sometimes get it wrong , or that as member of Parliament we can not , from time to time , criticise their approach to an issue . it be completely legitimate to do so . when activist in the street be aggressively call for jihad , I do not think it be okay to engage in semantic about what they may or may not have mean . virtually everyone in this country know what that person mean when they call for jihad on our street , and it be despicable that action have not be take against that individual ; it absolutely should be . with regard to the broad issue of Israel - Palestine , I mourn the loss of life on both side , as everyone in this House do . I be utterly depressed about the situation , as be most of my constituent . I want a two - state solution , just like everybody else do , but I be not convince that an immediate ceasefire right now would work or be appropriate , when one side would not respect it and have make that abundantly clear . Hamas must be destroy . over four year ago , I go to a kibbutz on the border with Gaza . my understanding be that a good number of those people have now be kill in a massacre . we must never forget the evil that happen that day . the enemy of the people of Gaza be Hamas , and we must work cross - party to support Hamas be destroy . at the same time , every step must be take to minimise the loss of life , but it be incredibly hard when Hamas be use innocent people as human shield . that be something we must acknowledge . I will focus on a few key issue as we debate the first Gracious Speech of his Majesty ' s reign . first , I agree wholeheartedly with the Government on one issue : the country need change . however , I disagree that the solution be a fifth Tory term . my constituent in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney have be hit hard by the Tory failure of the past 13 year , and they want and need the change that only a Labour Government can bring . in the past two year , british household be the bad hit in western Europe by the energy crisis , due to our high dependency on gas . it be shocking to note that during the bad energy bill crisis in generation , we have an energy policy in the King ' s Speech that will not even take a penny off energy bill . it beg the question : have the Conservatives give up on bring down energy bill for british family ? the King ' s Speech be more notable , unfortunately , for what be not include than what be . focus on today ' s theme , Labour will rebuild public confidence in police and the criminal justice system , and restore the rule of law on Britain ' s street . thirteen year of Tory Government have see over 90 % of crime go unsolved , mean that criminal be less than half as likely to be catch now compare with under the last Labour Government . in our town centre , police patrol have be reduce , and there be still 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police than in 2015 . there be nothing in the King ' s Speech to turn that around . near - record number of victim be drop out of criminal proceeding — 1 . 6 million last year alone . record number of crime have be drop — 2 . 3 million last year — due to no suspect have be identify . the proportion of crime charge have drop by 60 % since 2015 , and the average time it take for a crime to be charge have treble since 2016 from 14 day to 42 . many of we receive feedback from our constituent that they never see a bobby on the beat . labour will restore neighbourhood policing , put 13 , 000 more officer and police community support officer on our street , and introduce a new community police guarantee to make Britain ' s street safe . Labour be already lead the way in Wales . despite not have responsibility for policing , the Welsh Labour Government have provide funding for more than 500 pcso across Wales . labour ' s plan will bring back proper neighbourhood police by ensure that every part of the country have more local officer and pcso , with guarantee town centre patrol give every community a name officer they can get in touch with , so that policing get back to do what it be suppose to do . I know that many in my constituency and across the country will welcome that . there will also be a dedicated lead focus specifically on tackle antisocial behaviour in local area . in south Wales , under the leadership of our police and crime commissioner Alun Michael , we be already see a great focus on tackle antisocial behaviour , despite strained resource . it be important that that focus provide an opportunity to work alongside partner in local authority , the voluntary sector and elsewhere . that work be all the more important against a backdrop of significant financial pressure . another issue I want to focus on be the huge variance in fuel cost . despite word from Ministers , motorist in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney continue to be rip off at the petrol pump . just on Monday this week , petrol be 10p per litre more expensive in Merthyr Tydfil than in neighbouring area . in Merthyr Tydfil driver pay 155 . 9p per litre , while motorist fill up in neighbouring town pay just 145 . 7p . national retailer Asda charge driver at their Merthyr Tydfil store 8p per litre more than in the neighbouring Aberdare store . the Government should be look at regulation to ensure that driver right across the country get a well deal when fill up . it be hard to understand why , after countless promise , there be no legislation to ban conversion therapy in this Parliament . that be an absolute betrayal of the LGBT + community and people at risk of such abhorrent treatment . we know that conversion practice be abuse and should be outlaw , but the Conservatives have fail on that , as they have on so many other issue . countless conservative mp and Ministers have promise to bring in a ban , and they should apologise for yet another failure . to be clear , Labour would bring in a full , no - loophole ban on such practice . no one could fail to be move by the harrowing scene on our tv screen come from the middle east , and I be sure that everyone want this horror to end . I be support the amendment from my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition and will be vote for it later this evening . finally , despite all the Government ' s talk on create good secure job , it be very disappointing yet again this year not to hear any measure to outlaw " fire and rehire " practice in the Gracious Speech , especially since those tactic be use by company throughout the covid pandemic and the Prime Minister himself say that they be unacceptable . on that issue , as on so many other , we hear rhetoric where we need action — not just weak word from a Government on their last leg . his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech to both Houses of Parliament be most illuminating , in my view , and serve as an excellent statement of intent from his Majesty ' s Government . I remind the House that since 2010 there have be much progress in the area of policing and law and order . the rate of reoffende then stand at 32 % , but I be proud to say that in the year 2020 - 21 it have fall to 25 % . since 2010 , violent crime be down by 52 % , domestic burglary by 57 % , and vehicle death by 39 % . the measure put forward by the Government in this Gracious Speech will , I be sure , be welcome by people across the country , particularly those who live in fear of crime and antisocial behaviour . the Criminal Justice Bill contain some excellent proposal . we all see the terrible Lucy Letby case play out in the court , and indeed in the press , early this year . the Bill will mandate defendant ' attendance at sentencing hearing , ensure that victim have the right to air their grievance with the defendant present and see justice do at first hand . in addition to give great satisfaction to victim through the trial and sentencing process , the Bill will well protect child and young people by increase maximum penalty for those who have sell weapon to minor , and by strengthen law tackle individual in possession of blade with the intent to cause harm . if we can take knife off our street and at the same time increase the deterrence , I hope we can continue towards dramatically reduce knife crime and , in particular , the horror of child kill other child . that issue have be a priority for local police and crime commissioner , include my very good friend and colleague Commissioner Mark Shelford in Avon and Somerset . however , even with all the progress we have make so far , it be still the case that in some of our community , vulnerable and old resident be afraid to venture outside their home , especially after dark , and some young people may also feel intimidate by group of other young people . the situation have get well since 2010 , but there be much more to do and the Criminal Justice Bill be a massive part of the plan to improve our law and order and the safety of our community . at the launch of the police and crime commissioner election campaign last week in County Durham , with my colleague Councillor Robert Potts — the conservative candidate and a former soldier and police officer — I outline how the Bill empower our policeman and woman to enforce the law well and to stand up for the victim of crime . the Bill will give officer great access to Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency record and database in order to identify criminal and bring they to justice . officer will also be able to enter private premise without a warrant if steal technology , track by gps , be prove to be at the corresponding location . the Sentencing Bill will mean that life mean life for the most serious and sadistic of offender who have take the life of other . in addition , it will ensure that the most serious sex offender will serve the whole of their sentence and will not have the opportunity for parole . however , when other prisoner be release on parole , home detention curfew will be extend , and Ministers will have great oversight of parole board to ensure that they be accountable to the public . those measure will ensure that we can keep our street and community safe and protect the most vulnerable in our society — that must be the priority for any Government and any police force — while not diminish the opportunity for rehabilitation , so that people can become well educate when serve their sentence , emerge as well citizen in our society . the protection and safety of child , the vulnerable and the innocent must be our first priority . indeed , in the Gracious Speech the Government announce legislation to empower police force and the criminal justice system to prevent new or complex crime such as digitally enable crime and child sexual exploitation , include groom . in addition , the Victims and Prisoners Bill will implement Jade ' s law , automatically suspend legal parental responsibility for a parent who commit murder or voluntary manslaughter of their child ' s other parent . to far protect woman in particular , the Government will bar prisoner convict of the most serious crime from marry or enter civil partnership in prison in England and Wales . to sum up , the measure in the King ' s Speech encapsulate the value of the Conservative Government . some on the Opposition Benches have pay lip service to law and order over the year , but we conservative have recruit 20 , 000 police officer and tackle reoffende , and we be deter crime and make our community safe . I will address two issue in my response to the King ' s Speech , both of which relate to violence . in my constituency , we have lose far too many young life to serious violence , include , since the start of September , Ronaldo Scott and Keelen Morris Wong . both be brutally murder in broad daylight with huge knife of the kind know as " rambo knife " or " zombie knife . " they both leave a community of family , friend and neighbour utterly devastate . our community be play their part , with support from our local council and the Mayor of London , in tackle the complex problem of serious violence , but the Government have not be play their part . a ban on Rambo and zombie knife be promise in 2016 , but in response to my recent write question , the Minister say that it would be do " when parliamentary time allow . " the King ' s Speech be the moment in our calendar when the Government set out how they will allocate parliamentary time , so I be dismayed that it contain no specific mention of a ban on the large and most brutal of knife . no one have a legitimate need for a hunting knife in London . by fail to bring forward the ban , the Government be signal that they simply do not care about the violence be perpetrate in constituency such as mine . the second issue I will address be the horror that we be witness in Israel and Gaza . the terror attack perpetrate by Hamas on 7 October be an unspeakable violation , the large slaughter of jewish people since the holocaust , and the large terror attack since 9 / 11 . we stand in solidarity with all those affect : the injure , the hostage and the family who be bereaved or desperately worried about love one hold captive in Gaza . Israel have the right to defend itself — as would any country in the face of such an horrific attack — but that right be not without limit . it be constrain by international law , which protect civilian , critical infrastructure such as hospital , and critical supply such as food , water , medicine and energy . we have witness a month of unrelenting bombardment of Gaza . More than 11 , 000 people have be kill , home and whole neighbourhood have be destroy , hospital have be leave unable to function , and a whole population be be deny access to food , water , energy and medicine . we can not look at the horror and suffering on our tv screen and conclude that the scale of destruction we be witness be proportionate , or that deny aid from enter Gaza be within international law . again , we must stand in solidarity with all those affect : the injure , the family who be bereaved and those desperately worried about their love one in Gaza . I have hear from thousand of my constituent who have be in contact with I over the past month to share their view . they , too , be completely horrify by what they be see , and they want every possible effort to be make to stop the conflict . they understand that that be what be signal by the word " ceasefire . " in call for a ceasefire , no one be suggest that the cessation should be unilateral or without condition : Hamas must release the hostage . in war , ceasefire do not always hold , and we must all be realistic about the intensity of this conflict , but a bilateral humanitarian cessation of the violence — a ceasefire — be surely the minimum we should be demand in the face of such horrific suffering . this be not a minority view , but the view of Oxfam , medical aid for Palestinians , Islamic Relief , the Red Crescent , christian aid , and all of the major aid agency with a presence in the region . it be the view of the United Nations and all of its aid agency . it be the view of our former colleague in this place , David Miliband , as well as of President Macron , the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Pope . on this issue , the overwhelming , prevailing view of my constituent be that where we have an opportunity to call for an end to the horrific suffering in Gaza , we must do so . " Ceasefire " be the word that they understand to mean an end to that horrific suffering . my hon . friend be make an incredibly powerful speech , and I be sure my constituent feel very similarly to hers . I think we all want to see a ceasefire — a cessation of hostility — and we need to have the step to bring that about . however , do my hon . friend agree that we need to see not only the release of hostage , but an agreement between these two war faction and the release of prisoner from the other side ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and he be right . this process be not easy — nobody be say that it be — but my conscience tell I that call for a ceasefire be the right thing to do . that be not a unilateral lay - down of arm , but a bilateral humanitarian ceasefire predicate on the release of hostage and lead to an internationally broker peace process and a two - state solution , with a secure Israel live alongside a sovereign , viable Palestine . I fully understand that colleague will have different view from those of their constituent , and there be no easy response to this appalling conflict . we must all treat each other with respect at this time , but we must all be able to stand in front of our own constituent with integrity , and at peace with our own conscience on the issue that matter most to they . my conscience tell I that I must call for a ceasefire today — a halt to this dreadful destruction and conflict . far too many have already die on both side , and more will continue to die if the violence do not cease . we must call for a ceasefire . I be very supportive of the policing and criminal justice aspect of the King ' s Speech , but be very aware of the time limit on Members , for the benefit of Ministers — from my point of view , at least — I will just touch on one aspect of the Sentencing Bill . the Government press release for that Bill state : " the Bill will also make sure vile criminal who commit rape and other serious sexual offence face the full consequence of their action and spend every day of their sentence behind bar " . to I , and to most people in the street , that be common sense . if a judge say that someone ' s sentence be 10 year , that be what be expect , not five year just because that person have behave quite well in prison . however , I would like to file that quote down a little more . it refer to " vile criminal who commit rape and other serious sexual offence " . have some experience of the legislation around child sex offence , I rank very many of those convict of child sexual abuse as criminal so vile that they should be include in that category . legislation in this country take a big step to protect child against those criminal in 2003 , and since then this country ' s child protection legislation have be world lead . the Sexual Offences Act 2003 and subsequent development and improvement have be agree on a cross - party basis , include the grooming aspect of that Act . the Act introduce for the first time the big step in child protection : the innovation of make child groom a crime . even today , few member of the public and probably very few mp have any real knowledge of just how vile the action of many paedophile towards child often be . in Committee on the Sex Offenders Bill in 2003 , I become aware that some member , on both side of the House , be oblivious to the vile action that many paedophile apply to child . consequently , I arrange an informal cross - party meeting of the Committee with some of the top police from the Met paedophile unit . one mp ask the superintendent to describe the bad he have come across . he do , and it shatter the Committee member — they be aghast and shocked — and that part of the Bill then go through seamlessly . I will not repeat what the policeman describe , suffice it to say that to call it vile be a gross understatement . those and virtually all other child sex offender , male or female , can only be describe as vile — or bad . some year ago , I be sadden to read a short article in a quality UK weekly by a journalist who partially absolve people who collect child sex abuse material . the article ' s reasoning be that view the photo do not involve their actually touching child . it be appalling . individual who collect such photo create a market that induce other to produce they by abuse child . at the other end of the camera be a child be abuse . I hope the Secretary of State for Justice and his Ministers will consider include convict child abuser among those who should spend every day of their sentence in prison without early release . that include those who may not have touch a child but who , by collect what be not infrequently thousand or ten of thousand of image of child abuse pornography , be also culpable , and should hence spend every day of their sentence behind bar , as the judge may decide be appropriate when they be convict . for the last five week , I have be watch in utter despair as Hamas kill hundred of innocent Israelis and take over 200 hostage , and as the israeli military kill over 11 , 000 Palestinians . the overwhelming majority of Palestinians who have be kill be woman and child , not Hamas fighter . they have be kill in their home , school and refugee camp , in church and mosque , while deliver aid and in hospital as patient , staff and those take shelter . at Al - Shifa Hospital , premature baby lie starve , be wrap in foil to stay warm and be wait to die . there be no oxygen , no food and no fuel to run generator . as we speak , israeli troop have enter the hospital , put patient and staff at grave risk . over at the Al - Quds Hospital , Israel have fire live ammunition directly at the intensive care unit , with most of the victim be child . there be no long any work hospital in northern Gaza due to the depletion of fuel , lack of power and constant attack . I have see picture of parent carry piece of their baby — their child — in a carrier bag . there be still thousand of people miss , bury alive under the rubble of the half of Gaza ' s house that have be destroy . across this country , we have see hundred of thousand of people peacefully march on the street and urge the Government to call for a ceasefire , despite the former Home Secretary ' s brand they hate marche . the people of Britain have continue to turn out week after week to demand justice for Palestinians , and contrary to what she claim , the violence at this weekend ' s protest be by the far right during the two - minute silence to mark Remembrance Day . embolden by the former Home Secretary ' s extreme hate - fill rhetoric , they attack the police and chant Islamophobic slogan . today ' s debate be about raise confidence in policing . as a former Greater Manchester Police officer , I believe it be shameful that the Tories be the big driver undermine that . I have visit Israel and Palestine and see the discrimination and suffering of Palestinians in the west bank and occupy territory . I have champion the need for a two - state solution whereby Israelis and Palestinians can both live peacefully . it be extremely painful to watch the sheer scale of Palestinians be displace — more than one and a half million already . that remind I of my visit to a UN refugee camp in Iraq , where I meet three generation of palestinian woman live in a tent . the grandmother have be displace in 1948 . her daughter have be bear into a refugee camp , and that daughter have just give birth in a different refugee camp — three generation bear in three different refugee camp . that be the reality for so many Palestinians , but it do not need to be like that . if we have have a ceasefire yesterday , 144 Gazan child would still be alive today . Israel have already cross every red line imaginable and broken international humanitarian law . history have show we that military action alone do not resolve conflict , and Israel ' s use of force will not resolve this one . we need a full and immediate ceasefire now . my constituent have demand that , and I will not refuse they . support a ceasefire be the very least we can do . it be a joy to participate in this debate on the King ' s Speech from the Back Benches again , follow my year of exile in the Government Whips Office . if I have more time I would have comment on some of the amendment call for a ceasefire and address the situation in Israel and Gaza , and on some of the scene we have see on our street in this country over a few week . however , due to lack of time , I can say no well than that I agree with every word that my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) say early in what I think be an excellent speech . on the other aspect of today ' s debate , criminal justice and policing , I welcome the measure that the Government be bring forward , because they build on the positive progress that we have make over the past 13 year to bring down crime and improve our criminal justice system . clearly there be more to do , and I welcome the measure to ensure that those who commit the most serious crime and be convict serve the whole of their sentence in prison . that be absolutely right . I also welcome the measure to address drug and knife crime and antisocial behaviour . we be lucky enough in Cornwall to live in one of the low crime area of the country , but we have a significant problem with antisocial behaviour . the two main town that I represent , Newquay and St Austell , both have significant issue with antisocial behaviour . that issue be raise with I frequently by local resident , and I look forward to work with the Government to see what more we can do to address it . Labour Members have mention raise confidence in police . for the sake of transparency , I declare that a member of my immediate family be a serve police officer , and as a family we be very proud of they and the work they do . it be incredibly welcome that we have deliver on our manifesto promise to recruit an additional 20 , 000 police officer . in Devon and Cornwall we now have 3 , 715 serve police officer , which be 600 more than in December 2019 and a record number . we must ensure that those additional police officer be see and feel on the front line . the public need to see and feel that we have those additional police officer on the front line , and that be not always the case . I encourage the Government to look at the reason why that be not see to be the case , and to see what more can be do . we must ensure that police officer spend their time do police work . one thing I have observe from go out on patrol with police officer in my constituency be just how much of their time be spend fill the gap leave by other part of the public sector , whether that be the NHS , the local authority or , in particular , social service . it be not right that police officer be expect to spend so much of their time do work they be not train to do and that should be the responsibility of other part of the public sector . I encourage the Government and , in particular , Home Office Ministers to look at what more can be do to ensure police officer spend their time prevent and fight crime , rather than fill the gap leave by other part of the public sector . we also need to recognise that our expectation of policing have change massively in recent year , and to understand the great scrutiny that our police officer be under . many of they welcome that , but some of the recent coverage in the media be have an impact on the morale of police officer on the frontline . we need to be aware of that . many be concerned that , just for do what they believe be the right thing to deliver the job , they may be hold up and possibly even lose their job . while it be right that we hold they to account and that we remove those rogue bad apple that be inevitably in any organisation of that size , we need to recognise that the vast majority of police officer be decent , honest and professional , and they simply want to do a good job to serve the public and keep we all safe . I rise to support the amendment in my name and amendment ( h ) , and to highlight the failure of this King ' s Speech to ensure that the Government uphold international humanitarian law . yusof and his two old sibling count themselves lucky . their dad , a radiographer at the local hospital in Khan Yunis , have instal solar panel at their house , so even when their neighbourhood lose power , they could still watch their favourite cartoon . that be what they be do when an airstrike hit from Israel . miraculously , Yusof ' s brother Hamed be unharmed . his sister Jury be find in the rubble . she be injure , but alive . Yusof ' s mother search in vain for her young son . she go to the hospital , ask if anyone have see she " handsome and curly - haired " boy . it be Yusof ' s dad who find he . his body have be take to the morgue . yusof be seven year old when he be kill . his dream be to be a doctor when he grow up . on his final day , he run and hug his dad before he leave for work . his dad recall : " Yusof kiss I and say goodbye " . yusof be one of the more than 4 , 600 child and more than 11 , 000 Palestinians of all age who have be kill in Israel ' s assault on Gaza . the World Health Organisation say that a palestinian child be be kill every 10 minute ; Yusof be one of those . behind every number we read and behind every horrifying statistic we hear , there be hope and dream just as real and just as valuable as your and mine . I can not believe that it have to be say , but it clearly do : palestinian life matter just as much as anyone else ' s . Israel ' s assault on Gaza have now kill one in every 200 Palestinians in the besiege enclave . hospital , ambulance and refugee camp have be target . premature baby in incubator — let I repeat that : premature baby in incubator — be die because hospital have run out of fuel . in the illegally occupy west bank , where Hamas be not in power , around 200 Palestinians have be kill by israeli force or armed settler . we could spend all day list the horror that the like of the United Nations Secretary - General , Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have say amount to clear violation of international humanitarian law and war crime . the truth be that israeli official have be open about their intent . at the beginning of the assault , an israeli military spokesperson say that the emphasis in bombing be on " damage … not accuracy . " a former head of the National Security Council say that the aim be to make Gaza " a place where no human being can exist . " this weekend an israeli Government Minister say that the war would be " Gaza ' s Nakba " , a reference to the 1948 catastrophe where hundred of thousand of Palestinians be forcibly expel from their homeland and never allow to return . none of that be to downplay Hamas ' s appal killing of israeli civilian . I have condemn that already and do so again today . I repeat the call for the release of all hostage , but , as the UN Secretary General say , none of those crime excuse what we have see since . unlike those crime , Israel ' s assault on Gaza have be do with the Government ' s unequivocal support and complicity , and almost certainly with British - make arm — [ interruption . ] I see smirk on the Government Front Bench ; personally , I do not think it be a laugh matter . when the Government refuse to support a ceasefire , they give Israel the green light to continue its slaughter of innocent Palestinians . when they refuse to support a ceasefire , they be refuse to push back against israeli politician and policy that aim to ethnically cleanse Palestinians from their land . I be utterly horrified that , after all that , member of this House be still willing to give Israel the green light , propose nothing more than humanitarian pause . there be nothing humanitarian about let child eat a little today only to bomb they tomorrow . the only humanitarian way forward be an immediate ceasefire , as have be recognise by everyone from the Pope to the President of France , as well as 76 % of the british public , accord to polling . to hon . member across the House , I say this : the child kill in Gaza today could have be save by a ceasefire agree yesterday , so I urge and implore you on this . we will be remember for this vote , so let we be on the right side of history and vote for a ceasefire . it be an honour to speak in this debate on the first king ' s Speech of his Majesty ' s reign . I pay tribute to he for his unstinting service to our country and the Commonwealth , carry on the truly humble legacy of his mother , her Majesty our late queen . it be important that those who commit crime must feel the full force of the law and serve the penalty for the crime they have commit . I very much welcome the Government ' s clear commitment to that in the King ' s Speech . the Sentencing Bill will introduce step to ensure tough sentence for criminal and increase the confidence of victim . it be hearten that the Government have also announce a Criminal Justice Bill to let our police tackle the develop crime of our age . it be important that we hear a commitment to ensure that the treatment of victim will be a key feature of the Government ' s approach to crime . I believe that at the heart of the desire for a firm and effective criminal justice system be the share belief that everyone deserve safe and secure community in which to thrive , and our amazing police force be key to that . I pay tribute to our police , the security service and our military , who do so much to keep we safe . the Government have deliver an extra 20 , 000 police officer nationally , and I welcome that . in Cumbria , we have see a more visible police presence on our street and more police station open up . as a local illustration , since PC Stewart Green start as the community beat officer in Penrith in July , there have be a 15 . 7 % reduction in antisocial behaviour compare with in the same period last year . my constituent , who live in rural area , be often affect very different type of crime . rural community face issue such as theft of farm equipment and machinery , fly - tipping , hare coursing , poach , wildlife crime , and the theft of pet , farm livestock and indeed horse . I welcome how , over the course of the Parliament , the Government have take important step to tackle that . those crime also affect the mental health and wellbeing of our rural community , which I be passionate about . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee recently publish a report on rural mental health and have note the impact of such incident on our community . I be proud that the Government have a strong record of action on animal welfare in this Parliament . in the King ' s Speech , their commitment to ban live export for fattening and slaughter be a clear sign that they support our high animal welfare standard . I look forward to they continue that in this new Session on issue such as puppy smuggling , the smuggling of heavily pregnant dog , ban the importation of dog with horrifically crop ear and tackle pet theft . biosecurity be pivotal to national security , and it be so important that the Animal and Plant Health Agency be support in tackle infectious disease such as avian influenza . at the EFRA Committee , when we have the Secretary of State and permanent secretary before we , we reaffirm how important it be that APHA ' s Weybridge site be redevelop . on the safety of our community , I be fully behind the Prime Minister in bring forward the necessary ban on the american XL Bully dog to keep both people and other animal safe . I would like to give my wholehearte support to the Government ' s timely commitment to the Holocaust Memorial Bill . in a deeply troubling time for the jewish community , it be only right that we make sure the holocaust be never forget . I strongly support many Bills in the King ' s Speech , include on improve transport connectivity . it be important that they go ahead . the Renters ( Reform ) Bill will give renter and landlord important right and be to be welcome . the tobacco and vape Bill have my full support and be a landmark step to eradicate the threat of vape for our under - 18 . I hope that the Bill will be wide - range and that we truly get a grip on a potential tick time bomb for public health . I welcome the football governance Bill and I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) for her strong work lead the fan - lead review . I very much welcome the Government ' s legislative agenda in the new Session , which be strong on criminal justice and on empower our community and keep they safe and prosperous . let I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) , who be no long in his place , on his excellent maiden speech . I be excited to witness , for the first time as a Member of this place , his Majesty deliver his first Gracious Speech . I turn up last week eager to hear the Government ' s comprehensive and ambitious plan for the parliamentary session , but what the Government have to offer be nothing short of threadbare . perhaps if the Prime Minister have spend less time on the phone to his predecessor try to get they to come and save his skin , he could have draw up a plan to get our country build again and to help work people get on the housing ladder . sadly , there be a complete absence of home building in the Government ' s legislative programme . the aspiration to own one ' s own home sit strongly in the british people . it be not just an aspiration to own property but an aspiration for security — a roof over their head and those of their family , and a solid foundation on which to build their future . but far too many be lock out of that ambition , watch as the dream of own their own home be erode by soar inflation , record high energy bill and the high tax burden on the british people since the post - war period . the british people do not lack ambition . they know the potential in their community . but we must take the decision here that meet their ambition out there . get the balance right between green space and build what we need be vital , and it can be do . the agricultural industry be so important to my constituent . our farmland do not just contribute to the local and national economy but keep the country feed . we can protect our farmer and their land while find space to build the home we need for the future . a green belt policy that protect disuse car park while green space be hand over to developer simply do not work . the grey belt space be there , often add nothing and in some case blight our community . we must have the ambition to use it . I say to the Prime Minister that in West Lancashire we be open for business . skelmersdale be the most populated area in my constituency , with around 40 , 000 people make Skem their home . when the spade first enter the ground in Skelmersdale in the 1960 , the new town be intend to provide home to over 80 , 000 people , but 60 year later , we have not reach that number . we have the potential to deliver the home we need to realise the aspiration of a modern Britain , but we can not do that without the critical infrastructure that sit alongside it and have too often be ignore in recent development . human being need more than just a roof over our head . we need connectivity , service and community . skelmersdale have be without a train station since 1958 — three year before it be designate a new town . it be one of the large town in the entire country without a station , and be the perfect candidate for levelling - up fund , but it have receive none . project such as a new railway station in Skem would constitute a genuinely new offer for transport regeneration in the north - west . claim that the Government be level up through investment in the Network North project be also , frankly , laughable . despite fanfare and promise , there be little on offer for community like mine . the now Prime Minister once boast about change the public funding formula to divert funding away from deprived urban community to more prosperous town . since then , community cry out for investment have see more of the same . take a cursory glance at some of the project reference in the Government ' s Network North proposal and you will find that many of they already exist . it be not just our train that be not work . devoid of idea and vision for this country , the Government send their own mps home early on half the parliamentary sitting day in the last session . there be no sign of that change with the King ' s Speech , which contain the few new Bills in almost a decade . the sad reality of the situation be that the Prime Minister have no confidence in his government to get legislation through Parliament . he do not even trust his own mps enough to make one of they the Foreign Secretary . even bad than that , the Prime Minister seemingly have no confidence in himself . like King Midas on opposite day , everything he touch turn to disaster . it be clear that the Government have give up on governing , so why not let the british people decide at a general election ? it be a privilege to represent the constituent of Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner , which be characterise by a very strong community spirit in the eight village that make up the constituency . thankfully , today our Metropolitan police figure show that from Harefield to Hatch end we continue to experience low level of crime overall and that it be a safe place to work , live and raise a family . however , many constituent remain concerned about matter relate to law and order . as part of the Greater London area comprise our capital , issue from disorder associate with recent marche in the centre of London through to the rise impact of online and digital crime be at the forefront of our mind . even in an area which look and feel safe to most resident , there be example of particular individual and group feel vulnerable . they deserve our attention to ensure that this be a place where all our people be able to feel , and be , safe . that be why I welcome the measure contain in the King ' s Speech that aim to update our law to take account of change circumstance in the world and in our society , to keep people safe in the face of the emerge challenge . the Victims and Prisoners Bill represent a suite of measure intend to improve the way in which we deal with crime and the victim of crime . engage with constituent , I have be strike on a number of occasion by the need to ensure effective and appropriate support for woman and girl who have be victim of crime target against they , particularly , in our local area , harassment on public transport . I welcome Transport for London ' s response to our lobbying , seek to make public transport a safe space for woman and girl . the move to place the victim code on a statutory footing and the minimum service level set out for victim be a great opportunity to ensure that our response after a crime be of a high and more consistent standard than have be the case in the past . on the whole , our police do an excellent job in always challenging circumstance , but ensure that all victim benefit from a consistent standard of treatment will far build public confidence in our police . the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill represent a significant step forward in help constituent to feel confident online . robbery have become a vanishingly rare occurrence in my constituency and across the capital , but scam , online fraud and target crime such as push - payment fraud be become a significant and grow concern to many . for those who , for whatever reason , may feel less confident go online , they be a barrier to engage in our increasingly digital society . as we have see that growth , it be welcome that the Government be respond with effective measure to deal with digital crime . as that have parallel a consistent fall in in - person crime , our legal framework need to be update through the Bill to take account of the change world and its new risk . finally , I wish to touch briefly on the ceasefire amendment . like all member , I have receive many representation about the event follow the Hamas terror attack of 7 October and the target massacre of civilian . I represent a very diverse constituency and have engage with constituent who have be personally affect both by the event in Israel , and the attack and issue for family member in Gaza . each have present incredibly distressing issue , which I know have move many in the whole country and have be express in this House tonight . I particularly welcome the work do by the Government — as well as the regular update on it that we have be receive in the House — to support humanitarian effort for the resident of Gaza , who be themselves , of course , victim of Hamas in their own right . the humanitarian pause that have be agree represent progress . Ours be a country that uphold international law and remain committed to the lead example of international human right law — the european convention on human right , base on our own domestic law — as well as the wide international law of war and humanitarian law . I therefore welcome the Government ' s clear and unambiguous commitment to press all party to ensure that those law be respect in Israel and Gaza . the note of realism that be strike by the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) — he be not in the Chamber this evening — on the BBC this morning very much reflect my view that there have be a long - term cycle of violence that be cost many life on both side , especially since Hamas take over the governance of Gaza in 2006 . their absolute refusal to countenance a ceasefire , now or on any previous occasion , tend to nullify the humanitarian purpose of ceasefire call from many quarter . if we be to break that long - term cycle of violence , we need to ensure that we do not vote for a ceasefire that would undermine that . my constituent know that I stand in solidarity with those affect by the atrocity in the middle east . as Liberal Democrats , we call for an immediate ceasefire and a two - state solution , and a path to peace in the long term . it be a privilege to speak in a debate on the King ' s Speech — the King ' s first Speech . may I begin by pass my condolence to the family of Lord Cotter ? Brian Cotter be a Somerset man , and a tireless advocate for both small business and mental health . the Home Secretary may have change , but it be still " same old " with this Government . charge rate be the low they have be for year , especially those for burglary . one of my constituent have £ 55 , 000 - worth of equipment steal in September , and have still not meet an officer . while I welcome the success of Operation Soteria Bluestone , pioneer by the Avon and Somerset force , it be not enough for the Government to rest on the laurel of the academic and the officer who create it . we need to create a pipeline of trust by commit ourselves to educate all boy and man about violent crime against woman and girl . we also need more officer from diverse background , and a policing culture that welcome and value they . simple number in uniform be simply not enough without thorough vetting and training . we need trust , visible and local community police officer who be much more effective in their community than police and crime commissioner . the Liberal Democrats have already commit themselves to all those change . Delay be the mantra of this Government , and nowhere do we feel that more than in Somerset . we be miss out on 18 , 000 new home because they be in the level and moor catchment area — a designate site of special scientific interest endanger by the high level of phosphate in our water system . I have 600 constituent on the waiting list for affordable housing . in Frome the average rent be nearly £ 1 , 500 a month , make up 50 % of the average salary . one family of six be currently live in a two - bedroom apartment . at this point , I must declare an interest as a proudly active Somerset councillor . without new house , the council can not enforce section 106 agreement that make developer provide fund for the benefit of local community , or claim the community infrastructure levy . a recent no - cost trial in the west country , lead by Somerset Council , show that modular water treatment unit remove more than 98 % of phosphate and 88 % of nitrate . I want to see the Somerset partnership ' s bid to the nutrient mitigation fund grant , and adopt across those affect area . we do not need to be stick in an archaic binary of either not build anything or scrap environmental safeguard . the Liberal Democrats will use a new blue flag standard to protect our water , include wild swimming area such as the site in Farleigh Hungerford in my constituency . we will also build 150 , 000 new social home a year . those aim do not need to be mutually exclusive . as a farmer , I could see that the only potential Brexit benefit be common agricultural policy reform , but the Government have botch that , leave many farmer on the brink . farmer need the security of clearly communicate long - term planning , not be leave in the dark over de - link payment and betray on pompous flag - wave trade deal . in the meantime , Somerset high street be empty fast . local shop , bank , post office , pharmacy , GP surgery and NHS dentist be all be price out by the Tory business rate , force resident to travel far to access their need . we will reform high street business rate and work hard to ensure that nobody be out of reach of banking service and affordable food . the Liberal Democrats listen , plan and act . please , let ' s move forward . let ' s call a general election now . I would like to start by thank his Majesty King Charles III for his speech and echo the comment of many of my hon . friend and colleague regard how special it be to be speak in the first king ' s Speech debate for 70 year . today ' s debate on police and the criminal justice system be of particular significance , as these be issue I be often contact about as the Member of Parliament for Broxtowe . the safety of our family and love one must be of the high priority . it be reassuring to see the Sentencing Bill announce in the King ' s Speech . tough sentence for the bad offender will ensure that dangerous individual be off our street and not endanger the public . I would like to put on record my personal thank to all those police officer in the UK who serve our country , especially those within Nottinghamshire , and also to thank all those who work for the police in support role . I will single out one individual in particular : neighbourhood policing inspector , Inspector Mike Ebbins , who I regularly meet to discuss the specific crime affect people in Broxtowe . it be essential that we be keep our community safe . this will also be achieve through the Criminal Justice Bill , which seek to empower our police force and justice system to prevent crime such as digitally enable crime . I be glad to see a focus on the welfare of victim . keep victim at the centre of our criminal justice system and ensure that as much support as possible be in place for they be essential . I welcome these new measure , especially the proposal in the Victims and Prisoners Bill to monitor how criminal justice body comply with the victim code . the Bill also set out plan to improve support for victim , include a statutory duty for partner agency to collaborate . the Bill will have a hugely positive impact on those most need our support . I would like to put on record my deep disappointment that a mental health Bill be leave out of the King ' s Speech . since first be elect , I have be campaign for mental health reform and the increase support that be desperately need across the UK . I be encourage recently when the Government publish the suicide prevention strategy , but it do not go far enough . I stand in this Chamber in 2020 and debate the huge merit of the Mental Health Act White Paper . have a person - centre approach to in - patient facility , and remove autism and learn disability from be categorise in the Act as mental health disorder , be change that be miss today , and that be of course a detriment to many throughout the UK . I implore the Government to start prioritise mental health reform as soon as possible . the King ' s Speech also discuss the importance of look after veteran . as a veteran myself , I be passionate that the UK should become the good country in the world for a veteran to live . the Government have make huge stride in veteran care in recent year , and we have the first ever Minister for Veterans ’ affair attend Cabinet in order to prioritise that care . we have have many success in improve service for veteran since establish the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , such as the dedicated referral pathway for mental health , physical health and homelessness establish by Operation Courage , Operation Restore and Operation Fortitude . I recently have the pleasure of open the first ever military service leaver pathway into policing , which I be proud to champion . the course be the first of its kind , and I look forward to see service leaver take up their place in nottinghamshire police . my hon . friend make a very interesting point on the value that veteran can contribute not just to public sector employer such as the police but to so many private sector employer . military service be a driver in raise skill level . do he have any thought on how these skill could be well use in future ? I completely agree with my right hon . friend about the value of veteran ’ transferable skill , teambuilding and sense of duty . those thing be important and can be transfer to many form of employment , particularly police . the military - to - police scheme give veteran a direct pathway into the police via the police constable degree apprenticeship , ensure that skill gain in the military be transfer to a new career follow a shortened training scheme . it would be remiss of I not to mention my disappointment at see incredibly important area , such as mental health , not address in the King ' s Speech , as they should have be . however , I welcome the propose Bills and believe that many will have a directly positive impact on my constituent in Broxtowe . in speak to amendment ( h ) and ( r ) , the House will be aware that I have openly call for a negotiate ceasefire on both side , along with the release of all hostage . however , neither the israeli Government nor Hamas have agree to an immediate ceasefire . Hamas have state that they will continue with their strike against Israel , and they have not heed repeat call by the UN and other for an unconditional release of all hostage . likewise , the israeli Government have reject grow international call for a ceasefire and have continue with their relentless bombing . israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu have state that a ceasefire would be possible only if all 239 hostage be release . who be suffer intolerably in the meanwhile ? the palestinian people . after the Hamas terror strike that tragically result in the killing of well over 1 , 000 Israelis , I tell the Prime Minister on the Floor of the House that , while Israel have a right to defend its citizen and rescue its hostage , its response must be proportionate and submit to international law . however , over 11 , 000 Palestinians — and rise — have be kill . shockingly , in just 40 day , one in every 200 people live in Gaza be no more . I have be particularly horrify by the killing of more than 4 , 600 innocent child . that be one child die every 12 minute . the number of child kill in just over four week of israeli bombardment have surpass the number kill in conflict zone across the globe every year since 2019 . as a parent of two child , I can not imagine what their parent be go through , if indeed they be still alive . whether or not the israeli Government and Hamas listen to our plea , I believe we must call for an end to the violence to save life . the Netanyahu Government must be make to realise that raze Gaza to the ground and indiscriminately kill Palestinians will not lead to safety and security for people live in the region . it will merely fuel more anger and resentment , take we far away from peace and prosperity for all and from a viable two - state solution . I have always speak up for human right , and in the past six year I have often speak up for innocent Palestinians , who have suffer decade of injustice , occupation and forceful removal from their home . they be now face an atrocious siege and further bloodshed . my hon . friend be make some important point . do he agree that we need a ceasefire or a cessation of hostility — we can use whichever word we choose ? I sense he do agree with that or certainly with the sentiment . do he also have a frustration that the Scottish National party amendment before we tonight be design as a political ploy , and therefore we will not be vote for it and will vote instead for the Labour amendment ? I thank my hon . friend , who be correct in what he say . a lot of our constituent will not be aware of the procedure and protocol of Parliament , and how Labour Members hardly , if ever , vote for any SNP amendment . this raise another important point that my constituent have be email I about : sign early - day motion . I have be try to explain to constituent , on the doorstep and elsewhere , that hundred of early - day motion be in circulation at any give time and that shadow Ministers , such as myself , and minister never sign they and they do not have the requisite power . those be some of the protocol that my constituent and other will not be aware of . I wish to thank the Labour Front - Bench team , who have listen patiently to the passionate argument of member such as myself and table a comprehensive amendment last night address our concern . first , it call for " an end to the violence in Israel and Palestine . " that be what we all want to see . secondly , it reaffirm " the jurisdiction of the ICC to address the conduct of all party " , so that we can ascertain what war crime have occur . thirdly , it call on Israel to " lift the siege condition allow food , water , electricity , medicine and fuel into Gaza " . fourthly , it call on we to " guarantee that people in Gaza who be force to flee during this conflict can return to their home and seek an end to the expansion of illegal settlement and settler violence in the West Bank " . fifthly , it address the road map and how we can get " an endure cessation of fighting — basically , a ceasefire — " as soon as possible and a credible , diplomatic and political process to deliver the last peace of a two - state solution . " as the Member of Parliament for what be recently vote the most royalist constituency in the country , Old Bexley and Sidcup , it be an honour to speak in this historic debate and to thank his Majesty for his first Gracious Speech as King , which set out the Government ' s priority to make the difficult but necessary long - term decision to change this country for the well . I be proud of not only our royal family and the pageantry of this country , which be clearly on display at last week ' s state opening , but of our police officer throughout the country , include our brilliant police officer in Old Bexley and Sidcup , and their dedication to our local community . that be the drive force of our raise confidence in policing , which be of course a key part of today ' s debate . I would also like to place on the record my thank to Sergeant Dave Catlow and all the team for their ongoing work in tackle vehicle crime , and to congratulate police community support officer Steve Graves on his 20 year of service to our community . I welcome the fact that the King ' s Speech reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to keep community safe from crime , antisocial behaviour , terrorism and illegal migration . at a time when threat to national security be change rapidly due to new technology , it be welcome that the Government will give the security and intelligence service the power they need , and will strengthen independent judicial oversight through the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill . I also welcome the fact that the King ' s Speech announce that legislation will be introduce to well protect public premise from terrorism in the light of the Manchester Arena attack , through the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill . that be an issue my predecessor and friend the late James Brokenshire work so diligently on during his time as Security Minister . one of the good way to raise confidence in police in London be to ensure that the thousand of decent , hard - work police officer can continue to focus on fight crime in the community they serve . however , under the Labour Mayor of London , as the police and crime commissioner for London , that be difficult for community such as Bexley because his tri - borough policing policy negatively impact community police in Bexley , as well as the ability of police to connect with community and respond to crime in a timely manner . it be also extremely inefficient to merge police resource in borough with so little in common , often leave safe borough , such as Bexley , with few resource , as we have see in recent week when there be protest in central London . have more police officer be central to have a visible police and law enforcement presence , so I welcome the successful recruitment of an extra 20 , 000 police officer by the end of March this year , bring the total number to nearly 150 , 000 officer across the country and reflect the Government ' s determination to ensure that people feel safe in their community . notably , this year ' s £ 16 . 9 billion police settlement include specific funding for pcc to drive the recruitment of those officer . sadly , it be frustrating and concern that despite be give that extra money by the Government to hire more police officer , the Mayor of London have fail to spend it and the Metropolitan Police Service be the only force in the country to fail to hit its recruitment target , miss out on over 1 , 000 extra officer who could be help to keep londoner safe . despite his ongoing claim to have no money , and despite blame everyone else for his many failure over the past seven and a half year as Mayor , he have have to pay some of that money back to the Government for fail to hit that target . Sadiq Khan have also close many police front counter , such as the one at Sidcup station . quite clearly , the Mayor of London need to be put into special measure right now . it be of paramount importance that the police be equip with the power and tool they need to protect the public . I welcome Government measure to tighten the law around zombie knife and I recognise that stop and search be an important tool to keep our street safe , when use properly . about 400 knife and weapon be take off the street every month use stop and search in London alone . I also welcome that the government — my right hon . friend the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire be in his place — be look closely at scan and search to help detect knife . I will continue to lobby for that , give its potential to help improve community safety and end that awful crime . restore confidence in our criminal justice system go hand in hand with restore confidence in police . that be vital in our action to tackle violence against woman and girl , and I wholeheartedly support the step that the Government be take . it be right that the most serious offender , include those who have commit violent and sexual offence , should spend more time in prison to help keep the public safe . every day since 7 October , news from Gaza and Israel become yet more painful to watch , even for those of we who can choose to look away . while the horrific attack on israeli citizen by Hamas be appal , the response by Israel ' s military be devastate the life of ordinary people in Gaza . my party have hear the testimony of several Welsh - palestinian family who have lose relative in Gaza . Aymen Aladham , an it consultant in Swansea , have tell we how in three separate air strike in Gaza last month he lose 18 member of his family . the pain and anguish people such as Aymen must be experience now be beyond imagine . those who survive must seek shelter in a diminish number of place . half of all Gaza ' s home be damage or destroy . university and school be under frequent attack . we be witness in real time the complete collapse of vital infrastructure to support human life , include power line and water desalination plant . one doctor describe how hospital in Gaza be now practise medieval - style medicine , with premature baby huddle together to keep warm because their incubator no long work , and doctor operate on patient without electricity or anaesthetic . in what perversion of international law can anyone justify turn a hospital into a battlefield ? that must end . the UN Secretary General have say that " in the name of humanity " there need to be a ceasefire now . it be clear that humanitarian pause alone be not enough . first , the fact on the ground render they invalid . the UN agency for Palestine have say that communication in Gaza will start to fail as of tomorrow when telecommunication company run out of fuel to operate their data centre and major connection site . without reliable communication , people will not know when the current four - hour pause in the bombing begin , or indeed when they can begin to undertake the perilous journey across Gaza without access to fuel . secondly , a pause as oppose to a ceasefire presume and make accommodation for the resumption of violence , which mean more child die , more home destroy , and more life ruin . a pause be a tacit endorsement of the position that more bomb and bullet be the answer to this crisis . rather , we should be reach for a political solution use diplomacy and dialogue . that can happen only with a full and immediate ceasefire . not only would this stop needless death of Palestinians , but it would of course allow for the safe release of the hostage capture by Hamas . last week , Plaid Cymru table a motion in the Senedd call for an immediate ceasefire . I be pleased to say that the motion pass with 11 Labour MSs and one Liberal Democrat MS join our call for peace . some people here may doubt the strength of the Senedd ' s call for a ceasefire but , together , nation after nation can make a powerful statement for peace , and Westminster now have the opportunity to join Wales . we can show the innocent civilian in Gaza and the family of israeli hostage who be desperate for their safe return that we stand with they . we can tell the world that antisemitism be intolerable and that Islamophobia be intolerable . these be the voice that need to be hear when we use the ability of this place , which be great , to amplify a call . it be in that spirit of unity and peace that I urge colleague from across the House to support the amendment today . finally , to those who say that this amendment have be table for political reason , I say that they be do that thing that belittle we in the eye of many of our constituent : we be talk about party political interest . we all have constituent who believe firmly that a ceasefire be the only and the right way forward . it be our duty in this place to enable their voice to be hear , and I shall be support amendment ( h ) . I apologise , but in order to get the last seven member in , we will have to drop the time limit to four minute . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on his Majesty ' s first King ' s Speech , especially on the vital issue of crime and confidence in our police and criminal justice system . under the Conservative Government , crime and antisocial behaviour be have a massive impact on community in Erdington , Kingstanding and Castle Vale . last year , my constituency have the high rate of knife crime in Birmingham . in one area , cover Stockland Green and Kingstanding , the West Midlands Ambulance Service be call out to treat , on average , three victim of knife crime every month . a constituent contact I last month . he say , " my friend recently have his skull crack on the high street . four guy try to rob he and then stamp on he . I haven ' t see a police officer up there in month . " I host a meeting last month of all the local trader on our high street in Erdington . one woman tell I that she work alone all day . she say that , from 8 am to 11 pm , there be constantly people deal drug outside her shop — when she arrive , while she be work , and when she close up . but unfortunately , even though she constantly ring the police , she never see anybody . the Conservative Government have cut the police force by 15 % since Labour leave office , leave we with the low number of officer since the early 1980 . that be reckless and short - sighted . it be no wonder that our local community do not trust the Government ' s action on antisocial behaviour ; there be not any . on the impact that the King ' s Speech could have have , it could have pledge to restore neighbourhood policing , as Labour have , and put 13 , 000 more officer and pcso on our street . it could have guarantee town centre patrol , as Labour have pledge to , so that people could walk down high street such as mine after 5 pm and at night without worry about violence . unfortunately , that have not happen . the Government be wrong to think that our constituent will give up . we need to stop the decline and start fight for a well future . finally , I want to talk about the struggle I have have with the SNP amendment . I have be contact by hundred of constituent who , like many across the UK , have be witness horrifying scene in Israel and Gaza since 7 October . I be a nurse and I can not sit idly by while I know that people be face the bad suffering imaginable , especially elderly woman and baby in hospital across Gaza . it be clear to I that we need increase humanitarian aid . that be why I be call for a temporary bilateral ceasefire to ensure that innocent civilian leave Gaza and access the aid that they desperately want . I ask this House to think twice about the SNP amendment , because it have be table to cause division , and together we stand , divide we fall . it be with great sadness and frustration that I must speak again in this House about the failure of the Government to uphold the responsibility that they have to the 97 people unlawfully kill at Hillsborough , to their family and friend , and to survivor . after 27 year of the fight by family for truth and justice , the 2016 inquest — the long jury hearing in british history — end with juror rule that the fan who die at the FA cup semi - final be unlawfully kill , and that the catalogue of failing by police and public official contribute to their death . shamefully , nobody have be hold accountable for the needless death , injury and endure trauma suffer at Hillsborough , despite the 2016 inquest verdict . we need change in law to ensure that the pain and suffering of the Hillsborough family be not repeat , and that there be a legacy from the tragedy . in 2017 , the then Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , ask the then Bishop of Liverpool , Reverend James Jones , to conduct a review into the lesson to be learn from Hillsborough . the recommendation of that review , call " the patronising disposition of unaccountable power " , be publish in November 2017 . six year later , on 7 November , in a letter send out by the former Home Secretary , the Government promise to publish their full response to Bishop James Jones ' s report on Wednesday 6 December . will the Minister confirm , either at the Dispatch Box now or in writing , that that commitment will be honour ? there can be no more delay . in the time we have wait for the Government to respond , Parliament could have pass the Public Authority ( accountability ) Bill , initially present to the House by the then Member for Leigh , now Mayor Andy Burnham . those law could be in force today but the Government choose not to introduce they . after six year , we instead have the Government ' s draft Criminal Justice Bill , publish this week . it mention a duty of candour in clause 73 , but only in the context of a code of conduct . that be an insult to all those who have be affect by state cover - up and to the memory of the 97 . it do not establish or define the duty in law . it provide no mechanism for compliance or enforcement . crucially , the Government do not appear to be introduce a statutory duty of candour on all public official , as Hillsborough Law now campaigner demand and as my party thankfully support . we need a legal duty of candour on all public authority and official to tell the truth and proactively co - operate with official investigation and inquiry , bring to an end the depressingly familiar pattern of cover - up and concealment . nothing less will do . in the six year that we have wait , Parliament could also have pass the Public Advocate Bill introduce by my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) . instead , the Government have propose legislation , in the form of the Victims and Prisoners Bill , that be a pale imitation of what the Hillsborough family and survivor have spend year campaign for . the Bill do not make the public advocate independent , have no power or statutory duty and will only report on what the Secretary of State direct it to report on . what the Government have put forward in the King ' s Speech be certainly not a Hillsborough law . amendment ( c ) , which I have table to the Humble Address , call for the right to food to be enshrine in law , and I thank the 35 hon . member who have sign it . hunger be a political choice make by this Government . at the moment in my great city , one in three people live in food insecurity , and there be nothing in the King ' s Speech from the Government that would address the crisis my West Derby constituent face . we need systemic change . we need a right to food enshrine in UK law so that everyone , include all child , be legally protect from the scourge of hunger . I associate myself completely with the remark of my good and hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) . I have not originally intend to speak in this debate , but give the appalling slaughter and suffering in the middle east and the ongoing tragedy in Gaza , I have to do so . as the Member of Parliament who bring forward the motion to recognise the state of Palestine , which be approve in the House on 13 October 2014 , I be often a target for those who do not believe in peace or a two - state solution . in the context of the then Home Secretary ' s sowing of division and hate , it be interesting that hon . member have refer to Remembrance Sunday , when I be move and overwhelm by the word , some of which I would like to share , of the roman catholic priest Father Marc Lyden - Smith . he say that although Remembrance Sunday be a time when people wear red poppy — a well - establish tradition — he have for the first time see someone wear both a red and a white poppy . when he ask why , their reply be , " Red be for remembrance and white be for peace . " I find that very thought - provoking . our hope in remembrance be ground in peace , a peace that so many have give their life for . we must remember that peace look forward to what we be try to build : justice , harmony , wellbeing and the opportunity for all to flourish . the most powerful part of Father Lyden - Smith ' s sermon be towards the end , when he remind we that " Jesus say : ' bless be the peacemaker ' . he do not say : ' bless be those who win the war , those who have sufficient resource and advanced weaponry to crush their enemy ' . he say : ' bless be the peacemaker ' — those who work to build a world of peace . we can all be peacemaker . " we can all work towards bring about peace internationally . we should let today be a wake - up call for we all , on both side of the House , to work for peace and , when we pray every morning before the session start , to work for reconciliation , understanding and harmony . that begin in this House , in our community , in our home , in our family , in our friendship group and especially in our heart . today , I will vote for a ceasefire . I will vote for peace . I will vote for a state of Israel and a state of Palestine to live side by side in peaceful coexistence . the horror , death and destruction that we witness daily on our tv screen be a breeding ground for hate ; but if we be ever to secure peace , and a last peace , we can not be drive by hate . I vote for a ceasefire and I call on all hon . member , but particularly the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition , to use their platform and position of authority not only to secure humanitarian aid amid the horror we see in Gaza and have witness in Israel , but to work every day towards a last peace and the safety and the security that all people in Israel and Palestine deserve . I will call the Front Benchers for the wind - up no later than 6 . 40 pm . with a sense of camaraderie , I start by congratulate the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) on his maiden speech . maybe I can go far in extend the hand of friendship by help he through the Aye Lobby this evening if he wish to join we in vote for a ceasefire — as the Scottish Labour party in Holyrood appear to be say it will do next week . I be not go to get into this , but the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) have prompt I to do so . he seem to suggest that the SNP ' s table an amendment on the principled position that we have take at every stage , every step of the way , since the attack in Gaza on 7 October be somehow a political game . that be an utterly bizarre suggestion . we have be absolutely open . our amendment be table last Wednesday — a week ago — and publish last Thursday . you will forgive I , Mr Deputy Speaker , for suggest that if anyone be play political game , it would be those who lodge an amendment 12 minute before the deadline last night . I also thank the hon . member for Slough for confirm what many of we have suspect : the reason the Labour party often do not vote for SNP motion be simply that they be SNP motion . that be deeply unfortunate . I invite Labour Members to look in Hansard at the countless time the SNP have vote with Labour on Opposition day motion . we will go through the Lobby and vote for position that we agree with . if that be what he feel he need to say and do to justify the position to himself , that be matter for he , but we put forward a principled position tonight in our amendment ( h ) , which I be delighted to sponsor and support , particularly give that countless people in Midlothian have email to ask I to do so . let I touch a little on today ' s topic . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be trustee of White Ribbon Scotland . when we — particularly we man — get the chance in debate to stand up and call on all man to do what we can to tackle the grow misogyny across society , it be important that we take that chance , use our position and platform to call it out where we see it . Misogyny be entirely unacceptable and more of we need to say so , because it be happen far too much . far too often people stand by and say , " but he ' s a good guy , really . " that be simply not good enough . More need to be do , so I welcome the fact that the Government be introduce legislation , which I will watch closely as it progress . the King ' s Speech could have do much more , it could have offer much more to help constituent in Midlothian and across our nation . however , for all the challenge we face , they be nothing compare with that face by those in Gaza tonight , so I call on everyone who want to see an end to that conflict to join we in vote for a ceasefire . after 13 year of Tory austerity , what a thin king ' s Speech it be from a Government who be out of touch and out of idea , and hopefully soon out of office . they promise change by wheel out the Prime Minister who run off after he accidentally bequeath we Brexit . then there be the ex - Home Secretary , who be so fixate by the next Tory leadership race that she forget her function of keep the street safe . she make they less safe by stoke unrest and fear , and encourage a right - wing mob on to our street — kudo to Sir Mark Rowley and the Met for stand up to the meddling . crime and antisocial behaviour need neighbourhood policing , but this gimmicky Government still have not restore to 2010 level the officer they cut . hate crime should not be on our street , but sadly , event far off have trigger Islamophobic and antisemitic event nationally and even locally in the past month . I be alarm by reprehensible individual hoot horn and provocatively wave flag in Acton on 7 October , the day of the bad atrocity in Israel ' s history . since then , we have shockingly also see red paint daub on two mosque , three time between they , and on a syrian caf é . that be disgraceful . with winter approach , there should not be street homelessness and rough sleeping in one of the rich country on earth in 2023 . that be also disgraceful , as be the ex - Home Secretary call it a " lifestyle choice " . reclaim the street also mean an end to the grisly roll - call : Sarah Everard , Sabina Nessa and Zara Aleena , who be only walk home . however , my last example be from the street of Gaza , which have dominate mps ' inboxe and fill our tv screen with desperation , death and destruction . I have hear it at first hand from a man who come to see I , whose brother have live in Ealing and train as a surgeon at Guy ' s before return to Gaza with his expertise . he have not move from Al - Shifa Hospital since the start of the war . that hospital be now a household name , surround by tank and with no food , water or power . long before Hamas ' s despicable slaughter on 7 October start this cycle of violence , the new Foreign Secretary call Gaza an open - air " prison camp " that be unsustainable . those word be now true than ever , so I back labour ' s amendment tonight demand both the end of violence and a two - state solution , stress the importance of international law , and condemn Hamas , illegal settlement and west bank violence . I have also put my name to amendment ( b ) , which ask for some of the same stuff , include the release of hostage — who themselves be at risk from 20 hour a day of incessant bombardment — but also call for the end of the siege of Gaza , condemn collective punishment , and urge the Government to press for a negotiate ceasefire that be bind on all side , not a surrender . all war end in ceasefire eventually . we can not continue at the rate we be see , with lose life and 50 % of building in Gaza demolish ; it be only a month in . even the Sun call this a " damp squib " of a King ' s Speech , from a party for whom it truly feel like the end of day . to paraphrase the Spice Girls , what we want — what we really , really want — and what this country need be a general election now . bring it on ! it would be remiss of I not to begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) on a fantastic maiden speech . I remember say in mine , which feel like 1 , 000 year ago , that I admire his integrity and intelligence . I think those value shine through in his speech , and will shine through in his conduct in this place . it be a pleasure to rise to speak in this debate on the King ' s Speech for the first time as the Member of Parliament for Selby and Ainsty , but I must say that I be a little disappointed . I be send to this place to hold this Government to account — to scrutinise their agenda and their concrete plan for government — but this King ' s Speech have reveal that there be scarcely a plan at all . instead , the conservative party have resign itself to drift rudderless toward the next election , shuffle the deckchair on the Titanic while work people in community such as mine suffer the consequence of 13 year of decline . nowhere be that more apparent than on crime : the so - call party of law and order have sleepwalk into a crisis where 90 % of crime go unsolved and a criminal on the street be half as likely to be catch today than under the last Labour Government . the conservative legacy on crime be one of damage decline and collapse confidence , and community such as Sherburn in Elmet in my constituency be pay the price . sherburn be a bustling and dynamic place with a bright future . it have grow from a village to a town , with its population expand by around 2 , 000 people in the past 10 year , but with that growth come worry about crime and a fear that the hard - work staff at North Yorkshire police do not have sufficient resource to address these issue . in my recent election campaign , the Conservatives have the gall to celebrate how 251 more police officer be now on the street of North Yorkshire , ask we to be grateful while seemingly oblivious to the fact that those officer be merely replace the one we have lose from our street since the Conservatives take power in 2010 , as well as those who have be force to leave the profession they love due to overwork , anxiety and stress . it be plain to those local resident in Sherburn who feel threaten by burglary and whose street be make unsafe by antisocial behaviour that this Government be dangerously out of their depth , and be unwilling to use opportunity such as the King ' s Speech to get a grip on spiral crime . his Majesty ' s speech could have provide what everyone in my constituency know we need , and what my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) outline so ably : a fundamental reset for our police service and criminal justice system . under Labour ' s plan to tackle crime , we would see 13 , 000 more officer and pcso on our street , fast - track detective recruitment and a return to proper neighbourhood police with guarantee neighbourhood patrol , as well as new power to tackle antisocial behaviour in our town centre . instead , it be all too clear that this Government be unprepared to take the important decision necessary to solve the crisis in which they have place we . my hon . friend and I will do all we can to push they to go far until a general election allow we to deliver the fresh start that community such as mine so desperately need . some 1 , 400 Israelis have be kill and more than 11 , 000 Palestinians have be kill in Gaza , around half of they child kill by the israeli bomb and missile target home , school , hospital , refugee camp , mosque and church , while almost 3 , 000 be miss presume dead under the rubble . those total will be high now than they be when we start this King ' s Speech debate . the World Health Organisation have note that the brunt of the horrific assault be be bear by woman and child , with well over 400 child kill every day and countless more maimed , suffer lifelong psychological trauma or trap under rubble . More child have be kill in Gaza during the last three week than the total kill in conflict around the world in every year since 2019 . of those kill , two third be woman and child . woman and child be disproportionately impact by this violence . densely populate refugee camp in Gaza be be bomb , leave dead and wound child with no survive family . I be leave comfort too many of my own constituent in Leicester East who have lose a huge number of family member , with their in - law wipe out entirely . as we speak , Gaza ' s large hospital , Al - Shifa , have be surround , storm and occupy by israeli force , trap hundred of medic , patient and civilian inside without access to vital supply , with even food and water run out . Gaza ' s hospital be out of anaesthetic and many be out of fuel . child and other be undergo surgery for horrific trauma with no pain relief . premature baby in neonatal care be die without access to oxygen , and more generally , there be now report of civilian die from hunger and starvation , with a lack of food , water and hygiene . collective punishment be a war crime and so be forcible transfer , yet the people of Gaza be be drive from their land into the Sinai egyptian desert . these be war crime , and the urgency of the situation , the gravity of the crime and basic human decency demand that plain language be use . to our shame , the Government , the Prime Minister and the Leader of his Majesty ' s official opposition be refuse to acknowledge this . do they not see Palestinians as human ? do they not see the burn out ashe of a barely recognisable human body or the tiny hand of a baby cover in debris reach out from the rubble ? do palestinian life not matter ? we be see death by war crime in plain sight . every day of delay mean more life be lose , and more woman and child be kill by the indiscriminate massacre and barbarism of israeli bomb . the international human right community and international non - governmental organisation be unite in their demand for a full and immediate ceasefire . the United Nations and its child ' s and relief agency , the World Health Organisation , international and israeli human right group , and the million of ordinary citizen of the UK and other country who have take to the street each week be all demand a ceasefire . our humanity in this House demand that we call for a ceasefire . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . as you will know , this have be an extraordinarily difficult day for many member in this House , but for I this be the most difficult day I have have to endure in my parliamentary career . we be now over a month on from the atrocious attack by Hamas on 7 October , and we be all right to utterly condemn those attack . but ahead of the vote that we be go to take in a moment , I want to let the House know that today I lose my first family member . the reason why this be important be that I have speak about how they be in a church in Gaza City , and they do not , I be afraid , die from a bomb ; instead they die perhaps from lack of food , perhaps from dehydration . their health deteriorate in the last week , and they could not get to the hospital they need . today I want to vote for peace . I want to vote for a two - state solution , because that be the only way that these horror will never be see again . I want to vote for get Hamas out of Gaza , and for those reason I want to vote for an immediate bilateral ceasefire , so that family like mine , but also family in Israel , do not have to endure this anymore . I urge colleague from all side to bear in mind that this be more than just party politic right now . I have be so disappointed by language I have hear today , and the Prime Minister early suggest that we be not on the side of Israel — Order . deep condolence from the House , but this be clearly not a matter for the Chair . we will let the comment that you have make stand . thank you — [ interruption . ] no , please , resume your seat . this be not a matter for the Chair — [ interruption . ] no , please resume your seat . we have express our deep condolence , but this be not a matter for the Chair , and therefore not a legitimate point of order during this debate . it be time for the Front Bench contribution . I call Mr David Lammy . the whole House will want to send their deep condolence to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) after what we have just hear . this have be a strong and powerful debate on the King ' s Speech , and all hon . member , despite the most challenging and difficult circumstance in the middle east , feel very grateful for the depth and quality of the contribution . we also hear the most outstanding maiden speech from my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) . it be thoughtful , humorous and full of live experience and fantastic scottish history . I be sure that his career in this House will be very successful . we have a lot of contribution about crime of course , give the nature of the debate , and it be good to hear from the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . he be right to remind we about the cost of imprisonment and that every prisoner cost £ 47 , 000 , and about the importance of the Government adopt a Labour position on short sentence . I be grateful to hear the Secretary of State move in a labour direction and disagree on this occasion with his colleague , the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) who be not in his place at the moment — [ interruption . ] forgive I , he be . we also hear from the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who raise spike as a grow issue in our country , along with sexual exploitation , as well as the need to move forward with a statutory description . we hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) and my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) about the long campaign for justice and a Hillsborough law , and about how painful it be , and will be for many people , that , despite the report of Bishop Jones , that measure do not find its way into the King ' s Speech two and a half year later . my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) raise police in Wales , and my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) speak about the horrible scourge of knife crime , and the failure to ban Rambo and zombie knife . we be still wait . let I turn to the amendment and the horror of war that I know every member of this House and so many of our constituent be all focus on tonight . I will start with a meeting I hold two week ago in Cairo with the egyptian Foreign Minister . he remind I that it have be almost exactly half a century since Egypt and Israel be at the height of the Yom Kippur war — a 25 - year pattern of conflict that some fear would never end . there be devastating loss in the Sinai and whole army face encirclement by the Suez canal . few expect the narrow diplomatic opening to lead to last peace , but diplomat seize those narrow opening . then , in 1977 , Sadat come to Jerusalem , set the two country on a path to a peace that have hold ever since . Minister Shoukry remind I of that . although it may seem impossible in the toxic fog of war , peace be always possible in the end , so 39 day since the start of the war between Israel and Hamas , I ask the House to remember that peace be never simple , and never win easily . much of the language be about a ceasefire . the Pope , the Archbishop of Canterbury , save the Children , UNICEF , the World Health Organisation , the UN Secretary General and several EU Prime Ministers have all call for a proper ceasefire . be it not time that Labour move its position and actually use that word " ceasefire " — a proper one to let humanitarian aid in ? I will turn to those issue shortly . everyone in this House want the fighting to end . the central debate be about the step to bring that about , and there be a discussion across this place among member , all of whom want peace and all of whom want to see the loss of life come to an end . [ interruption . ] I respect the hon . member ' s position , and I will come to that in a moment . peace be never win easily ; peace be possible because of diplomacy , because of compromise and because of negotiation . it be our duty in this House to support all the necessary and practical step to get we there . I think we all understand that there have to be step towards an eventual conclusion , and we all want to see the fighting stop . the Labour amendment call for a " cessation of fighting " , which presumably mean a cessation of firing . what be the difference between a cessation of firing and a ceasefire ? rise — will my right hon . friend give way ? I have to answer the question from my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) . I direct he to the statement from the United Nations Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs , which clearly set out five or six step and five or six different type of occasion where arm be lay down . some be purely for humanitarian reason . other be because some negotiation have begin or some political dialogue be possible . the debate be about how we get to the end , which be that arm be lay down for a lasting reason and the political process — in the end , this will surely end with a political process — can properly begin . my right hon . friend be right to highlight the fact that get to peace be the ultimate goal for all of we . like many hon . and right hon . member , I have receive so much communication from my constituent . there be a clear consensus from the general public that a ceasefire be one of the key way we can get this peace . do he not agree that we should be work towards that urgently ? rise — will my right hon . friend give way ? I will just respond to my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) . she be of course right that all of we want to see a ceasefire and the laying down of arm . she will have see also the statement from Hamas just a few day ago that they intend to continue and continue and continue . it be hard to see how a ceasefire can come about if Hamas be not prepared to stop the firing of rocket into Israel , and if they be not prepared to lay down their arm and set those hostage free . that , I think , be at the heart of the nature of the discussion . rise — I give way to my right hon . friend . order . I would like to advise David Lammy that I will be call Chris Philp at 6 . 51 pm . with apology , may I say to my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , who raise the question of what the difference be between use of the word " ceasefire " and an end to violence , that I fear there be a most unfortunate difference , and that be why I never use the word " ceasefire " and will not be vote for a motion that include it ? that be because , tragically , to some people , call for a ceasefire mean that Israel should stop fight but not that anybody else should — and that be not a point of view that I could support . I wholeheartedly support the excellent amendment ( r ) table by Labour Front Benchers . few of we in this House have the experience of my right hon . friend . she know that it be quiet , hard diplomacy that will bring about an end to the loss of life . she know that we need to rapidly get to a long pause , and she know that there be a legitimate debate in this House but that the labour motion deal with the issue at hand today , not next week or the week afterwards . let we see where we get to . let I join the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , in express the whole House ' s condolence to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for the tragedy that her family have suffer today . it be a huge pleasure to close the final debate on the first king ' s Speech . I join other in congratulate the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) on his excellent maiden speech . anyone who take a seat off the SNP have my fervent good wish . [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] that be clearly not a universally popular view . it be the first duty of the state to secure the safety and security of its citizen . that be why the Government have deliver record ever police number across England and Wales , as my hon . friend the Members for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) , for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) and for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) reference . we have 3 , 500 more police officer than we have ever have before at any time in history , and those record number be deliver result . accord to the crime survey , overall crime , measure like for like , be 54 % low now than it be in 2010 . that be to say that the Labour Government in which the shadow Foreign Secretary and the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , sit preside over crime level that be double those that prevail today . violence be down by 52 % , burglary be down by 57 % and vehicle crime be down by 39 % . the subject of the debate include fight violence against woman and girl : a topic that I be sure the whole House can get behind . I be proud that in the last 13 year the Government have : legislate to criminalise stalk in 2012 ; pass the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 ; criminalise coercive and control behaviour ; create a non - fatal strangulation offence ; and outlaw upskirting and revenge porn . the previous Labour Government fail to do all those thing during their 13 year in office . there be more to do . the conviction rate for rape and serious sexual offence need to be high . I be glad that the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) acknowledge that Operation Soteria be make progress , with police referral in the quarter to June up by 206 % compare with 2019 , Crown Prosecution Service charge up by 145 % and Crown court receipt up by 171 % . there be a lot more to do , but that be all head rapidly in the right direction . some specific question arise , which , for the sake of clarity , I would like to answer . the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , who be in her place , ask about measure to ban zombie knife and machete . those require secondary legislation , and I can confirm that the Government will bring forward the relevant statutory instrument in the very near future , in addition to the measure announce in the King ' s Speech to double the sentence for supply a knife to an under - 18 and to double the sentence for possess a knife with intent to cause harm . my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) mention antisocial behaviour ; come next April , every single police force in England and Wales will have funding for antisocial behaviour hotspot patrol . where they have be trialle , they have almost immediately reduce antisocial behaviour by around 30 % . the hon . member for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) and the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) ask about the Government ' s response to Hillsborough , which they and many member of Parliament take very seriously . I can confirm that the Government be plan to offer their full reply to Bishop James Jones ' s report on 6 December . the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood and other will be brief in advance if they wish to be . the duty of candour in policing will be introduce in clause 73 of the Criminal Justice Bill . on Gaza , which many member have speak about , let we keep in mind that 1 , 400 innocent civilian be deliberately target and slaughter by terrorist , and over 200 people remain held hostage . as the Prime Minister have set out repeatedly , this Government support humanitarian pause to ensure that aid can get to civilian in Gaza , give the difficult circumstance . this Government have dramatically increase humanitarian aid , have provide £ 30 million - worth , and 51 tonne have be send in already . of course , much more be require . will the Minister give way ? I be afraid that I must finish up . we be also work actively with international partner , include President Sisi of Egypt , to make sure the Rafah border crossing , which I have visit , be open more to allow critical aid in . in order to ensure that civilian in Gaza be protect , our Government be actively engage with the Government of Israel to ensure that they obey international law and redouble their effort to protect civilian in Gaza . that be the humane and civilised thing to do , and this Government will continue to call for that . however , a ceasefire with Hamas in place can not be just . Hamas have say that they intend to destroy Israel , and that they would once again perpetrate atrocity like those commit on 7 October . they continue to hold hostage , include child and british citizen , and they continue to fire rocket into Israel . to ask Israel to cease fire unilaterally would not be fair or just . in order to have a just peace and a lasting , permanent ceasefire , we need a two - state solution with a sovereign and recognise palestinian state on the west bank and in Gaza , guarantee their security and the security of Israel alike . all of we in this House and beyond should redouble our effort to bring about that two - state solution , and to bring about the peace we see in the aftermath of the Oslo accord , pass in 1993 . that show there be a path — it be difficult but it can be tread . only with a just and last peace can we see a just and last ceasefire . I commend the King ' s Speech and the Government ' s legislative programme to the House . it will take this country forward and it deserve the support of the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Andrew Bridgen Chris Bryant Karen Buck Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle David Lammy Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Samantha Dixon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 183 , Noes 290 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : ( h ) , at the end of the question to add : " but respectfully regret that the Gracious Speech fail to include measure that would require the Government to uphold international law and protect all civilian in Israel and Palestine ; unequivocally condemn the horrific killing by Hamas and the taking of hostage ; reaffirm that there must be an end to the collective punishment of the palestinian people ; call for the urgent release of all hostage and an end to the siege of Gaza to allow vital supply of food , fuel , medicine and water to reach the civilian population ; note the grow call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire from the United Nations and its aid agency ; and therefore call on the Government to join with the international community in urgently press all party to agree to an immediate ceasefire . " — ( Stephen Flynn . ) question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 33 ) , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Clive Betts Mhairi Black Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Edward Davey Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Julie Elliott Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Mary Foy Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Fabian Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Afzal Khan Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell John McNally Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Conor McGinn Anne McLaughlin Ian Mearns Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Helen Morgan Grahame Morris John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Jess Phillips Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Bell Ribeiro - Addy Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Kirsty Blackman Gavin Newlands Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 125 , Noes 293 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : ( k ) , at the end of the question to add : " but respectfully regret that the Gracious Speech do not include measure to tackle the cost of living crisis , address food price inflation , reach net zero or support household with mortgage payment and energy bill , fail to establish an industrial strategy to facilitate economic certainty and boost growth , do not include measure to address the crisis in the NHS and social care , do not include provision for 40 new hospital , fail to include a two month cancer treatment guarantee or commitment to improve ambulance , dentist and GP wait time , fail to introduce measure to stop the pumping of sewage into waterway or introduce a new tough water regulator to hold water company to account , provide no extra support to farmer transition to nature - friendly farming , neglect backlog in the overwhelmed asylum and court system , fail to restore community police to protect neighbourhood , fail to tackle the education attainment gap which have grow since the pandemic or issue include crumble school , mental health support , improve teacher recruitment , retention , and SEND provision , fail to include step to fix the UK ' s broken relationship with Europe , which be harm business , farmer and fisher , and ignore standard in public life , which have be erode under this Government . " — ( Ed Davey . ) question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 33 ) , that the amendment be make . Alistair Carmichael Jeremy Corbyn Edward Davey Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Richard Foord Sarah Green Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Ben Lake Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill layla Moran Helen Morgan Sarah Olney Liz Saville - Roberts Claudia Webbe Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Jamie Stone Daisy Cooper Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Jack Brereton Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 25 , Noes 303 . question accordingly negative . main question put and agree to . resolve , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . address to be present to his Majesty by member of the House who be Privy Counsellors or member of his Majesty ' s household . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Prevention and Suppression of Terrorism that the draft Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 ( risk of be draw into Terrorism ) ( Revised Guidance ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . business of the House ( 16 November ) order , that at the sitting on Thursday 16 November , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on — ( 1 ) the Motion in the name of Sir Charles Walker relate to the Speaker ' s Conference not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on that Motion ; such Questions shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; and ( 2 ) the Motion in the name of the Prime Minister relate to COP28 not later than two hour after the commencement of proceeding on that Motion or at 5 . 00pm , whichever be the later ; proceeding on those motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) Petition - Energy bill support thousand of people desperately worried about pay their energy bill will not get the support from this government that they get last year . I be on the record as be critical of that , and of energy supplier for profit from human misery . however , whether because I believe in credit where it be due or simply because I want to give people the well possible chance of survive financially , I want to highlight that many energy supplier can and do help . to give one example , profit from Scottish Gas be use to fund grant of up to £ 1 , 500 to help to pay off energy bill debt , and that be not limit to its customer . the trouble be that people do not know what support be out there , and that information have to get to those who need it the most . the petitioner request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to publish accessible information on support available from all energy company so that those who be struggle financially maximise their chance of survive the cost of living crisis . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that whilst the Energy Cap have decrease , many people be still experience extreme difficulty pay energy bill for a number of reason include the lack of a UK Government Energy Bill Support Scheme and the increase financial pressure from the cost of live generally ; note that whilst there be widespread , legitimate criticism of energy company many be provide some financial support to consumer in such circumstance but this be not widely know . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to publish accessible information on support available from all energy company so that those who be struggle financially maximise their chance of survive the cost of living crisis . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002875 ] Adjournment Resolved , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) House adjourn .