thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to deliver my maiden speech in this important debate on international investment , the benefit of which will be feel right across all region of our country . I want to begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , Mark Eastwood . he be a dedicated servant to his previous constituency of Dewsbury . on behalf of myself and our community , I say thank you . be the Member for the area in which I grow up be truly the honour of my life . I will forever be grateful to the people across Ossett and Denby Dale who put their faith in I to represent the area that I proudly call home . I pay tribute to the Labour member across the constituency , especially stalwart member Robert Gosling , without whom I would not be stand here today . I would also like to take the opportunity to thank my parent for their support , as well as my brother , who have always be there for I during some of the most challenging time . I be delighted that they have travel from Wakefield to be in the Public Gallery today . their own commitment to our community in their long career of public service — work hard and talk straight — be principle that I hope to emulate here . my mum be so committed to the north that this be her first ever trip to London — proof , be it ever need , that us northerner only come south if somebody make we . I know many member have already speak about the beauty of their patch , but with respect , I must make the case for Ossett and Denby Dale . drive from Ossett towards the Wakefield rural village and into Denby Dale , the sky widen and the moor roll out before you . on that drive , when I see the Emley Moor mast appear from the horizon , build tall than the Eiffel tower , I know I be home . it be beautiful , it be Yorkshire and it be the place that make I who I be today . it be not just those moor and view that move I ; it be also the people who call they home . we be people of talent , community and , as good Yorkshire folk say , hard graft . in fact , that beautiful landscape be the fruit of exactly that graft , of that talent . you see it in the pit dig across the countryside that serve to fuel and heat our nation . you see it in the field — plough , plant and graze by countless generation to feed not just Yorkshire but the rest of the country . you see it in the town market , which have bustle with small trader , craftsman and local farmer for generation . that landscape be not just the cradle of talent , but a product of it . each town , each village have its own community , its own culture — all quietly , proudly distinct . as well as hard work , these town and village be famous for their culture , their creativity and their heritage — home to brass band , Morris dancer , maypole and even a Doctor who , but most importantly of all , the world ' s great rugby league team , Wakefield Trinity . labour may be a party of the Union , but in West Yorkshire , when it come to rugby , we watch the proper stuff and as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that be league . we be also home to Yorkshire Sculpture Park , with its Barbara Hepworths and Henry Moores , and the National Coal Mining Museum , which root we in our proud history . I be enthusiastic — sometimes maybe a little too enthusiastic — that my constituency contain so many wonderful pub and brewer . we have the ever expand Ossett Brewery and our famous yearly festival , Ossett Beercart . just as we work hard and play hard , we also pie hard . indeed , for over 200 year , the people of Denby Dale have mark special occasion in the only way I think appropriate : by bake enormous pie to feed thousand — some even as long as 40 foot , with nine tonne of filling and 200 pint of bitter . that history and that culture must be champion . it be Yorkshire culture ; it be our culture . but I refuse to talk about my community only in the past tense — about opportunity we use to have and industry we use to lead . indeed , I want my successor in this place to be celebrate the creativity and achievement of child be bear in my constituency today . sadly , however , the Social Mobility Commission recently report that many young people in Ossett and Denby Dale , and other post - industrial community across our nation , face an uphill battle . grow up in a rural town , I know that feel all too well : that the place you be from be overlook — forget , even ; that opportunity be few and far between ; and that the only path to success in life be leave your family , your friend , your home . after briefly live in London in my twenty for work , I remember feel like the token northerner with the funny accent . I find myself have to speak eloquently so folk down here could actually understand I . the only problem with that be that when I get back home , my friend and family would ask I why I be speak so posh . it actually make I feel quite lose . young people in Ossett and Denby Dale , and in town and village across our country , should not feel like they have to get out to get ahead — and yet so many of they do . to talk solely about what be once possible in our community be to betray those young people . instead , our politic must be build on their dream and on their potential : decent , secure job with reliable public transport to get they there ; good affordable housing where they can build their family and their future ; high - quality education and skill training ; access to creativity and culture ; aspiration , hope . England be a nation of town and village like mine — of community , of culture , of graft . for England to succeed , town and village must succeed , and it will be my mission in this place to see that happen .