prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I have a special announcement to make : today be Jim Shannon ' s 70th birthday . hear , hear . oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — community Hospitals what step he be take to shift care from major hospital into community hospital . on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government , I congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on reach his 70th birthday — I think you say 70th , Mr Speaker , but I be sure you mean 60th . in response to my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) , we promise in opposition to transform the NHS into a neighbourhood health service , and we have hit the ground run . as a first step , we have announce the big boost to GP funding in year — an extra £ 889 million — which will recruit 1 , 000 more gps . we be deliver 700 , 000 extra urgent dental appointment , and we have give adult and child ' s hospice a once - in - a - generation £ 100 million funding boost . at the same time , we be deliver our plan for change and have cut waiting list for five month in a row . Change have begin , but the good be still to come . I , too , pass on my good wish to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . in South Dorset we urgently need to restore clinic and shift service back into our community hospital in Weymouth , Portland , Swanage and Wareham . sadly , the previous Conservative Government hollow out those community hospital , mean that service leave our town to go far and far up the road . combine with poor transport link , this mean that many local people in my patch find it difficult to access the care they need . with that in mind , what step be the Secretary of State take to restore clinic and service in our community hospital , and will he support my campaign to restore the chemotherapy clinic at Wareham community hospital ? the big thrust of our 10 - year plan will be to deliver on the three shift : from hospital to community , from analogue to digital , and from sickness to prevention . we believe that by move service close to people ' s home — and , indeed , into their home — we will be able to provide fast diagnosis and fast access to treatment , which will be well for patient and for taxpayer . through the reform we be make to the structure of NHS England and the governance of the NHS , we be also preside over the big devolution in the history of the NHS , with more power and decision take close to the community they serve . in that spirit , I urge my hon . friend to make representation locally to his integrate care board , as I know he be do . minister will also be open to receive his representation . follow the Government ' s regrettable decision not to fund Watford general hospital ' s refurbishment in this Parliament , provide community care facility in a town such as Borehamwood in my constituency — a significant town without its own dedicated facility — be more important than ever . will the Secretary of State undertake to use his office to urge the ICB and other to get their act together so that we can finally have those facility in Borehamwood ? I be very sympathetic to the argument that the right hon . Gentleman make about the importance of neighbourhood health service in Borehamwood , and indeed in town and community across the country . what I be not sympathetic to be a former Deputy Prime Minister complain about the state of the NHS , which he play a key part in create when he sit around the Cabinet table . one in three hospital admission occur in a person ' s last year of life , and 43 % of people will die in an NHS hospital . clearly , that be not acceptable when people be at their frailest . what be my right hon . friend do to invest in virtual ward so that we can keep those people at home , and in the district nurse workforce to ensure that district nurse have a proper career structure and that theirs can be a profession of choice once again ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the innovation and the impact of virtual ward . I have see at first hand the impact they can have — not just in provide well value for taxpayer and free up hospital bed for those who genuinely need to be in hospital , but in provide what everyone want , which be to receive high - quality care in the comfort of their own home wherever possible . that will be a big part of our 10 - year plan , and of course , it will be underpin by really good community nursing and community healthcare team . Stepping Hill hospital in Hazel Grove have a huge repair backlog . patient be have to park mile away to get to the hospital , corridor have be flood and there have be frequent power cut . alongside Stockport council , the local hospital trust and the community , I be call for an additional site in Stockport town centre , whether that be a diagnostic centre or otherwise . what assurance can the Health Secretary give my constituent that they will be able to get the health service they need close to they , and what support can he provide ? I be well aware of the challenge at Stepping Hill hospital and the need for support and investment in service in Stockport , not least thank to the representation of my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) . we be look carefully at this situation and be commit to work with leader locally to try to improve the quality of and access to service to give local people what they deserve . a new state - of - the - art surgical centre be set to open at the Victoria infirmary in Northwich in the next few week . the new facility will be a centre of excellence and a regional hub for outstanding cataract care , and it be an excellent example of how we can reduce pressure on our major hospital , while make the good use of facility in the heart of our community . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the Mid Cheshire hospital trust on complete this project ? can I invite he to join I on a visit to the centre in the come month ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the local trust on the work it be do and the impact it be have , and I would be delighted to pay a visit as soon as my diary allow . the new St George ' s NHS hub in Hornchurch have free up space in queen ' s hospital in Romford to remodel the accident and emergency there . will the Secretary of State now fund that remodelle , so that our constituent can get well emergency care ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise the need for investment in the accident and emergency at queen ' s hospital in Romford . as she allude to , that department serve my constituent , too , so this will be a rare occasion at the Dispatch Box where I urge and encourage she to lobby the Minister of State , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , because in such decision I must recuse myself . however , she will know where my sympathy lie . access to NHS Dental Services what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of access to NHS dental service . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of access to NHS dental service . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of access to NHS dental service . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of access to NHS dental service . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of access to NHS dental service . rebuild our broken dentistry system be a priority for this Government . we be already roll out 700 , 000 extra urgent dental appointment a year , as promise in our manifesto ; we have launch a supervise toothbrushing scheme for three to five - year - old ; and we be committed to reform the dental contract and make NHS dentistry fit for the future in the long term . in Kettering , we know the scale of the challenge face NHS dentistry after 14 year of Tory failure . my constituent regularly tell I how impossible it be to get an appointment . some be drive ten of mile to see a dentist , and it be simply a scandal how many child be admit to hospital with tooth decay . while it can not be rebuild overnight , in Kettering we welcome the extra 17 , 000 urgent appointment , which be a vital first step . can the Minister confirm that it be this Government who will make NHS dentistry fit for the future ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . after 14 year of Tory neglect and incompetence , far too many people be still struggle to find an NHS appointment . this government be tackle the challenge for patient try to access NHS dental care by deliver 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment a year and by recruit new dentist to area that need they . my hon . friend ' s local integrate care board have be ask to deliver nearly 17 , 000 of the additional urgent appointment . I be in no doubt that she will continue to campaign tirelessly on behalf of her constituent . my constituent , Kevin Buckley , have his NHS dentist shut with no notice . nhs dentist in Knowsley be not take on any new patient and he be stuck . this be not just a local issue , but a national crisis . what action will the Minister take to address the shortage of NHS dentist ? I be sorry to hear of the difficulty face by Mr Buckley . sadly , that be a challenge we face nationally after 14 year of abject failure from those now on the Opposition Benches . there be no quick fix or easy answer , but we be committed to reform the contract and help those who need it most . my hon . friend ' s local ICB have be ask to deliver more than 46 , 000 additional urgent care appointment from April onwards , get care to those constituent who need it most . the north - west have also be allocate 21 post in the golden hello scheme to recruit dentist into underserved area . More than one in three five - year - old in Stoke - on - Trent have tooth decay . that be the bad rate in the west midland and be 10 % above the national average . child in deprive area , like much of my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove , be twice as likely to suffer , and that be not acceptable . can the Minister please outline what step the Government will take to reduce regional inequality in NHS dental access for child ? it be shameful that tooth decay be the big reason for hospital admission of child age between five and nine , and the inequality surround that be stark . on 7 March , we confirm a £ 11 . 4 million investment in supervised toothbrushing for three to - five - year - old . the scheme be target at child in the most deprived area — those in index of multiple deprivation group 1 and 2 — and will reach up to 600 , 000 child . our innovative partnership with Colgate - Palmolive will result in the donation of more than 23 million toothbrush and toothpaste , provide outstanding value for taxpayer ' money . Aldershot and Farnborough be dental desert . my constituent Nick have an infect wisdom tooth and be in agony . he have be register with a practice in Farnborough , but it kick he off its patient list . he obtain an emergency appointment through 111 , but two week later the infection be back . he be leave with little choice but to go private , which cost he £ 700 — 10 time what the treatment would have cost on the NHS . can the Minister explain how Labour ' s plan for change will help to prevent such case from be repeat as we end the 14 year of dentistry failure that we see under the Conservatives ? my hon . friend have demonstrate again that she be a tireless campaigner for the people of Aldershot , and I be sorry to hear of the challenge face by her constituent . this government will deliver 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment a year , and will recruit new dentist to the area that need they most . my hon . friend ' s local ICB have be ask to deliver nearly 7 , 000 of those additional urgent care appointment in the year from April . in the long term , we will reform the dental contract with the sector , with a shift to focus on prevention and improve the retention of NHS dentist . the Secretary of State and Ministers ' commitment to 700 , 000 more emergency dental appointment be already take effect in my NHS area , with an extra 27 , 000 slot , and the feedback be excellent . however , constituent have tell I that some dentist seem to be remove non - emergency patient from their list . can the Minister please reassure they that their NHS dentist will be there when they need they ? as my hon . Friend say , we be deliver 700 , 000 additional urgent appointment . patient be not limit to a register practice in England , and practice be require to keep their status up to date on the NHS website . anyone struggle to find a dentist should go to nhs . uk or call 111 . it be also clear that while NHS England be not mandate an approach to the purchasing of these additional appointment , icb could consider either buy more appointment through new or recommissioned contract or modify exist contract , and / or use flexible commissioning . the Minister be aware of my concern about the inability of some 200 fully qualified ukrainian dentist to practise because of the restriction place on they by the General Dental Council . I know that the Minister have write to the GDC about this , but have he receive a reply ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for the constructive meeting and discussion that we have on this matter . as he will know , we be explore the use of provisional registration for overseas dentist , and we be urge the GDC to arrange more examination for dentist . I have a meeting set up in short order with the head of the GDC , and I will keep the right hon . Gentleman post on that conversation . my constituent be be force to travel out of county to Coventry or Evesham to obtain basic NHS dental care . do the Minister agree that it be a disgrace that access to an NHS dentist have become a postcode lottery ? what urgent step be the Government take to end this dental desert and restore NHS service to rural community such as mine ? I absolutely agree . the state of NHS dentistry in our country be shameful . the golden hello scheme enable 240 dentist to receive a £ 20 , 000 join bonus payment to work in dental desert , and we be negotiate with the British Dental Association the long - term reform of the contract . the issue be not the number of dentist in the country , but the paucity of dentist who be do NHS work . the north - west have some of the bad level of child ' s oral health in England , with Cheshire and Merseyside fall below the national average . in rural village in my constituency like Bunbury , where bus service have be cut , and Kelsall , where a dentist be keen to open an NHS practice but face barrier due to city centre prioritisation , resident be struggle to access NHS dental care . give the challenge of rural access , what step be the Minister take to ensure that NHS dental provision be available in those rural community ? I find it quite striking when Conservative member stand up and describe the abysmal state of NHS dentistry . it make I think , " well , who create this mess in the first place ? " but that be as an aside . the fact be that we have the golden hello scheme for dentist to come and work in so - call dental desert . we recognise that the fundamental problem be around incentive for dentist to do nhs work . that be why we be do a long - term contract negotiation to ensure we have an NHS dentistry contract that be fit for purpose and where every penny allocate to NHS dentistry be spend on NHS dentistry . there be an urgent need for dental training in Norfolk , so can the Minister confirm that the Government will enable the Office for student to allocate new dental training place in the east of England to start in 2026 ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . I have meet hon . member from the area and make it clear that in principle we support any creation of new teaching capacity for dentistry . what I have also set out be that , before we can give an instruction to the Office for student to go ahead with that work , we have to have the settlement of the comprehensive spending review , so we know what our financial envelope be . we will not have that until June , but certainly we will be look at that as and when we know whether the funding will be available . I call Jim Shannon . hear , hear ! there ' s only one Jim Shannon , by the way , you know ? [ laughter . ] Mr Speaker , thank you very much for your birthday wish . I be terribly embarrassed . I thank right hon . and hon . member for their kind wish . as I often say , I don ' t count the year , I make the year count . that be the important thing . can I ask the Minister a very important question ? what discussion have he have with the Education Secretary on provide more financial support to young student who want to study dentistry , to ease the burden of high cost associate with study dentistry which many young people may find off - put ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question and I congratulate he again on his 60th birthday . [ laughter . ] he raise an important point on teaching and training in dentistry . there be not enough capacity in the system . we absolutely want to ensure that we be build that capacity . as I say , a lot of that will depend on the comprehensive spending review settlement in June . I would be more than happy to discuss the issue with he in great detail once we have a well sense of where we be on the funding . woman ' s Health Services what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the provision of health service for woman . the Government be commit to improve woman ' s health outcome . we have already take urgent action to tackle the gynaecology list through the elective reform plan , and we recently announce an £ 11 million trial use AI tool to detect breast cancer case early . the 10 - year health plan will set out how we will tackle the factor that lead to poor health outcome and the improvement we expect to see . what assessment have the Minister make of the adequacy of research into and the provision of fibroid treatment for woman , take into consideration that fibroid be three time more likely to appear in black woman than in white woman ? the Government welcome the work my hon . friend have undertake and the work of the caribbean and African Health Network in highlight health inequality for black woman . she highlight shocking and unacceptable statistic . the National Institute for Health and Care Research have fund a significant amount of research into woman ' s health issue , include a £ 1 . 5 million trial compare treatment option for fibroid . I be happy to make sure she be update on that work and on the detail of that work . early diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer can make a huge difference to the woman involve , and , of course , to the prognosis and the cost to the state of health provision . I welcome the reference in the cancer plan to early diagnosis , but what specifically will the Government do to encourage great awareness of the full range of breast cancer symptom , and to encourage woman to get early diagnosis and treatment for well outcome ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question and for the work he have support on behalf of his wife to raise awareness . screen access and uptake be shockingly low across the country right now , and look at that be a key part of what we need to do to ensure that woman come forward for the screening test . the AI work will support the fast response time so that we can get woman treat more quickly , and will absolutely form part of what we need to do in the come year . I want to put on the record my thank to the Health Secretary for come to Nottingham last week and meet some of the family who have be harm by extremely serious failing in maternity service at Nottingham University Hospitals NHS trust , and for his sincere commitment to they . it be clear just how moved he be by their story . one of their ask be that the Government implement the 22 recommendation from the Shrewsbury and Telford Ockenden review , so I ask the Minister today to commit to do that . I know that my hon . friend and other Members represent that area have support the trust and particularly the family who have be affect . as she highlight , my right hon . friend the Health Secretary visit last week and be deeply move by those story , and have commit to visit again . the Government be work through those recommendation and will update the House shortly . follow on from the question ask by the hon . member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) , I hold a debate in Westminster Hall a few week ago on maternity service and speak to family across the country who have experience failure in the system that ultimately leave they without their baby to take home . it be a devastating experience for all involve . the immediate and essential action in the Ockenden review be support by the previous Government , and the Secretary of State for Health have be vocal in his support for their implementation . however , those family want to know how quickly they will see real change in maternity service up and down the country so that family can confidently go to deliver their baby . the hon . Lady be right to highlight the impact of the failure in maternity service on woman and their family across the country . as she highlight , my right hon . friend the Health Secretary take this matter personally and be look at it . we will continue to work closely with Donna Ockenden on those recommendation and will continue to update the House regularly . this be an important issue for member across the House represent their constituent , whether in this Chamber or Westminster Hall , and we be very keen to ensure that we support staff , build that confidence for woman and their family and give they a good experience of maternity service . Independent Review of Data , Statistics and Research on Sex and Gender what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the independent review into datum and statistic on sex and gender by Professor Alice Sullivan . I be grateful to Professor Sullivan for her report . sex and gender identity be not always the same , and it be important for patient that we record both accurately . I know the House will share my concern at some of the finding from Professor Sullivan ' s report , such as trans patient not be invite for cancer screening because of how their gender be record . I can assure the House that I be already act on report . last week , I instruct the health service to immediately suspend application for NHS number change for under - 18 to safeguard child . take such action do not prevent the NHS from recording , recognise and respect trans people ' s gender identity . I thank the Secretary of State for his response , which will give much - need reassurance to patient across the UK . any public body that fail to accurately record sex and instead conflate it with gender put people at serious risk of harm . unfortunately , this type of organisational capture have be widespread across Scotland , with devastating consequence . can the Secretary of State assure I that he will raise this issue with his counterpart in the Scottish Government to ensure that NHS Scotland do not put my constituent at risk ? I will absolutely undertake to share the approach we be take with my counterpart across the United Kingdom . the approach I have always take be one that understand the importance of biological sex , that recognise , understand and support that someone ' s gender identity may not always match their biological sex , and that seek to navigate a way through what have be an extremely toxic and sometimes harmful debate in a way that protect the sex - base right of woman and protect tran people and their identity . I know that my colleague across Government be take an equally sensitive approach , and I think it would be in everyone ' s interest if we see a similar approach across the whole of the United Kingdom . it be important not just in the provision of service , but in accurate datum and research , that we make that distinction , which do not in any way undermine respect for people ' s gender identity . the inquest into the tragic death of a young woman who live in Eastleigh have highlight the importance of continuity of specialist care for vulnerable people who move home . my constituent , Alex , be still wait for an appointment for ongoing specialist care three year after move to Eastleigh . will the Minister meet I to discuss the provision of mental healthcare in my constituency ? this question be about sex and gender . do not worry ; I be sure that the Secretary of State have the message . I now call the shadow Minister . give the finding of the Sullivan review on patient and health safety , which come about as a result of inaccurate and poor data collection , can the right hon . Gentleman confirm what meeting he have have with Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology to discuss the reliability of the datum on sex that be intend to be use by the digital verification platform in the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill ? I be grateful to the shadow Minister for her question . I speak to the Science Secretary on too frequent a basis — on a daily basis . he and I be both look very carefully at the finding of the Sullivan review and work through its implication for both the health and care service , for which I be responsible , and for the Government digital and data service , for which he be responsible . the UK Health Security Agency , for which the Secretary of State be responsible , publish health statistic . this include datum on sexually transmit infection , which be publish by sexual orientation and sex . however , a footnote state that woman be define in the dataset as " woman and tran woman " , which do somewhat undermine the value of the datum . what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that datum be not just collect properly , but publish and present in a way that be most clinically useful ? the shadow Minister raise a good example of how conflation of sex and gender identity be not helpful both in term of datum analysis and of recognise health inequality . it be also not helpful in make sure that we understand variance between people base on their different background and characteristic and that we provide targeted , personalised and effective healthcare that deal with healthcare inequality . that be why we be carefully study the recommendation make by Professor Sullivan , with a view to make sure that we be meet the need of everyone , include the trans community , who I understand , not least because of the way that the debate have be conduct in recent year , be anxious about the implication of the report . however , I genuinely think that the report will lead to well , more inclusive and fair outcome for everyone , include the trans community . Cancer Care : west of England what step his Department be take to improve cancer care in the west of England . I know the hon . member be acutely aware of the impact that cancer can have on family . we be committed to catch cancer early and treat it fast . we have achieve our manifesto pledge of 2 million extra appointment seven month early and we have invest in more surgical hub , long open time , which have benefit 23 community diagnostic centre in the south - west , and new radiotherapy machine . the national cancer plan will also seek to improve every aspect of cancer care to improve patient outcome and experience across the country , include in the west of England . I thank the Minister for her answer . the Big Space Cancer Appeal be run by the Cheltenham and Gloucester Hospitals Charity be go on in my constituency . it be have to raise £ 17 . 5 million for a new cancer centre at Cheltenham general hospital , which be a regional cancer centre , because the previous Government do not fund it . I be proud of the fund - raise work that be be do by the hospital charity , include by my caseworker , Mateusz , who be run two half marathon for the cause . will the Minister meet I and Dr Sam Guglani and Dr Charles Candish to discuss how the Government might provide more support for this crucial piece of infrastructure ? I commend the hon . member ' s campaign activity for improved cancer facility . I commend , too , Mateusz ' s two half - marathon . I wonder when the hon . Member will be do his half - marathon , but I can guarantee that I will not be join he . the fact that this sort of activity be take place be fantastic . local provision for healthcare be manage by the local health system . I would be delighted to meet he and local representative as soon as diary allow . cancer care be important for people right across the UK , particularly early diagnosis . how do the Government plan to raise cancer awareness among young people during Teenage and Young Adult Cancer Awareness Month and ensure that they be fully aware of the sign and symptom ? this be a really important issue . we have reinstate the child and young people cancer taskforce , which I visit a couple of week ago . we have task it with ensure that child and young people be a part of its work . the Department will be mark Teenage and Young Adult Cancer Awareness Month appropriately . we encourage all child and young people to get the check that they need and be aware of cancer symptom . nursing Career progression : inequality what step his Department be take to help tackle inequality in nursing career progression . I know that this subject be very close to my hon . friend ' s heart , after many year of NHS service . ensure great career for NHS staff , include nurse , have be a key theme of our engagement with staff to shape the 10 - year plan . I will shortly set out further measure to improve progression for nurse and their colleague in other key NHS profession . I thank the Minister for her answer . nurse across the profession be increasingly take on complex role and responsibility , yet many do not have access to high pay band that reflect these change , and there be too much variation around the country . as well as look at this , will the Minister ask the Department of Health and Social Care to implement a consistent model for support , structured progression from band 5 to band 6 for early career nurse base on the completion of key competency and the acquisition of necessary experience ? my hon . friend be right that NHS staff , include nurse , should be pay appropriately for the work they be ask to do and will be ask to do in future . we be work with the NHS Staff Council to ensure that the national job evaluation scheme be implement fairly and consistently across nursing and all profession . my constituent Ben have spend two decade work as a nurse . he tell I that his paramedic and midwife colleague receive automatic pay band increase post qualification while he and his nursing peer do not . Ben and his hard - work nursing colleague have miss out on ten of thousand of pound compare to colleague in other discipline . do the Minister agree that something must be do urgently to make up for this inequity ? I be absolutely clear that we need to make sure that the job evaluation scheme look at staff across the piece and that people be reward appropriately for the work they be ask to do . we will do that as part of our discussion with the NHS Staff Council , and we will be work consistently with staff as part of the 10 - year plan to ensure that people be reward . we depend on these staff , and we want to encourage they to be part of the NHS workforce . that be the approach we intend to take . NHS Waiting Lists what step his Department be take to reduce the number of people wait for nhs treatment . the 18 - week standard for elective care have not be meet for almost a decade . that be the legacy of the conservative party . our plan for change commit we to cut waiting list from 18 month to 18 week by the end of this Parliament through a combination of investment and reform . since we take office , the waiting list have reduce by over 190 , 000 . we achieve our manifesto pledge of 2 million extra appointment seven month early , and waiting list have fall five month in a row . a lot do , but a lot more to do . Change have begin , and the good be still to come . I welcome that nhs waiting list for physical health have fall for the last five month in a row and that NHS waiting list be down by almost 200 , 000 since Labour be elect , but with people who have mental health condition eight time as likely to have to wait 18 month for treatment , what step be the Government take to ensure that we see the same progress in waiting time for both mental and physical health treatment ? can they deliver a parity of esteem that the opposition fail to achieve in their 14 year in power ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and for his long - stand commitment to improve mental health service . Lord Darzi highlight that those wait over a year for mental healthcare outnumber the entire population of Leicester . we be committed to tackle this . we will fix the broken system by recruit an extra 8 , 500 mental health worker , introduce access to a specialist in every school and roll out community Young Futures hub in England . we will shortly be publish before Parliament our mental health investment standard report , which will show that when it come to mental health this Government be put their money where their mouth be . wait time for patient live in the village of Burton outside Christchurch could be drastically cut if the local integrate care board be to approve the creation of a new branch surgery . that application have be outstanding for more than four month . will the Secretary of State put a bomb under Dorset ICB and get it to approve it straight away ? that sound like an invitation to commit a criminal offence , and I think I will resist the temptation . I be sure that the ICB have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s forceful representation , and we will make inquiry to get he an update . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Shrewsbury and Telford hospital trust have some of the long waiting list in the country for cancer and A & E , among other area . it have be receive national mandate support from NHS England ' s recovery support programme . NHS England also provide support to hospital trust that be struggle with excessive waiting list through its get it right First Time programme . give the announcement to abolish NHS England , will the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that there will be continue support for hospital trust such as Shrewsbury and Telford with unacceptable waiting time , and a clear pathway to improvement for patient who deserve well ? yes be the short answer . remove the duplication , waste and efficiency that come with have two head office for the NHS will lead to well , more effective and streamlined decision making , but that will not in any way detract from the support that the hon . member describe . in fact , we should see more support and , crucially , more investment go to the frontline as a result of the saving , efficiency and improvement that we be make . Community Pharmacy what recent progress his Department have make on implement the hub and speak model for community pharmacy . this Government recognise the vital role that community pharmacy play as an integral part of our health system and local community . we be work with Community Pharmacy England on the pharmacy contract , which will start to stabilise the sector and make it fit for the future , and we will announce the outcome very shortly . on hub and speak dispense , we intend to lay draft secondary legislation in the come week to come into force later this year . community pharmacy funding be at a critical juncture , with many pharmacy in my constituency face financial challenge . with run cost increase and uncertainty around the date of the upcoming settlement , community pharmacy be concerned that there may be disruption to their business . what step be the Department take to ensure that input from community pharmacy be consider , and prior to any further legislative or regulatory change relate to the hub and speak model ? my hon . friend be right that we inherit a community pharmacy system that have be neglect for far too long , such that over the past two year , on average six pharmacy have be close every week . a wide range of community pharmacy and representative organisation feed into the public consultation on hub and speak reform , and I be pleased to confirm that their response be overwhelmingly positive in support of model 1 of hub and speak , which we will be go with . I recently visit well pharmacy in Northallerton , which , like so many other , play an important role in provide community health service . one value service be the provision of free blood pressure check to those over the age of 40 . will the Minister to join I in urge anyone with health worry or a family history of high blood pressure to take advantage of this fantastic free , pharmacy - lead , preventive community health service ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that a big part of the Government ' s shift from hospital to community be the pivotal role that community pharmacy will play in that process . we be commit to the Pharmacy First model of enable community pharmacy to do more clinical work , such as the type that he just describe . that be at the heart of our 10 - year plan . I call the shadow Minister . now that the Secretary of State be abolish NHS England , will he listen to the call from the National Pharmacy Association and the Independent Pharmacies Association , and publish immediately the independent report commission by NHS England on pharmacy ' finance ? we will publish the economic analysis imminently . he mention the National Pharmacy Association , which give I the opportunity to say that I think that the collective action that it be take be premature , unnecessary and detrimental to community pharmacy patient . I urge the NPA to reconsider its position and wait for the outcome of our negotiation with the CPE , which will come very shortly . we will announce that very soon . the National Pharmacy Association , which have be wait for month to get the answer , be advise all its 6 , 000 pharmacy member to reduce service and hour , for the first time in 104 year . that have never happen before under a Labour Government , or under the Lib Dems or the Conservatives , but it be happen under this Government . its chair say : " the sense of anger among pharmacy owner have be intensify exponentially by the Budget " , cite unfunded national insurance contribution and national living wage increase . the Minister acknowledge that there be potential action . what contingency plan do the Department have to ensure that we keep patient safe if pharmacy close their door in industrial action next week ? on the NPA , it have take we a while to clean up the utter mess that we inherit in community pharmacy . that involve agree financial envelope and get into negotiation with CPE . those negotiation have be constructive , and I be delighted to confirm again that we will soon announce the outcome of those negotiation . what we see here be the shadow Minister apparently take the side of people take collective action in a premature way that be detrimental to patient . they would be well off wait for the outcome . the Government be take industrial relation into the 21st century , as oppose to the performative nonsense that we see for 14 year . Mental Health Act : Family Support what step he be take to support family of patient who have be section under the Mental Health Act 1983 . when someone be detain , family involvement be extremely valuable , and family should be support to maintain contact with their love one . our Mental Health Bill will strengthen requirement to involve family in people ' s care . we will require clinician to involve patient and their family where possible when develop new statutory care and treatment plan . I have two ongoing constituency case with adult man who have serious and long - term mental health issue . one of my constituent believe that her life be in danger because of her son ' s threaten behaviour towards she — her own mental health have be seriously affect by the fear and stress . the other case involve a young man cause serious distress to his neighbour with his behaviour , which recently lead to an incident where he reportedly threaten a police officer with a knife . both man be live alone in unsupported accommodation , both be at risk of coercion and abuse because of their mental health problem , and both be cause serious distress to their family and neighbour . will the Minister tell the House whether he be work with other Departments to ensure the availability of more provision to support people such as my constituent to live safely in the community and not cause harm or distress to those around they ? I know that the hon . Member have meet my right hon . friend the Secretary of State about at least one of those constituency case . NHS England have ask mental health trust to review the care of high - risk patient and have publish national guidance on the standard of care that be expect . ultimately , the Mental Health Act be there to protect people and provide the necessary power to enable clinician to manage and support such patient — and to do so , where possible , in the community . yesterday I meet Essex partnership university NHS foundation trust and speak to it about the need to support the family of those suffer with mental health issue in Harlow , and particularly those with caring responsibility . will the Minister consider how mental health service can well identify and support young carer ? my hon . friend will be aware that we be bring forward the Mental Health Bill , and an important part of that legislation will enable family member — when they be choose as a nominated person — to have power to request assessment under the Act , challenge decision and request consideration of discharge in line with the near relative power . Special Educational and Disability need what step he be take to ensure special educational and disability need be meet by the NHS . I commend my hon . friend for her dedication to improve support for child in her role as the opportunity mission champion . child with special educational need and disability may access a range of NHS service , include health assessment and specialised support . all integrate care board must have an executive lead for SEND to ensure that that work receive sufficient focus . we be work closely with the Department for Education on reform to the SEND system . as the Minister be aware , last year we face the devastating closure of the Accrington Victoria hospital after 14 year of mismanagement by the Conservative party . I place on record my thank to the frontline staff who have manage that transition and the operational challenge to relocate service , but sadly a fully purpose building for child with SEND have to be use to relocate clinical service . how do the Minister plan to ensure that those with SEND be at the heart of commission plan and service development ? the system we inherit have be fail to meet the need of child with SEND for far too long — that become clear in what happen at the Accy Vic . through the 10 - year health plan , we will consider all those policy , include those that impact on child and young people . we be work closely with the Department for Education to support the delivery of the opportunity mission . I also host a roundtable recently with child and young people , include those with SEND , so that they can feed directly into the 10 - year plan . they will be at the heart of our thinking and planning on these issue . Mr Speaker , your heart would have be gladden last week to see colleague from across the House come together to support my debate call for the Down Syndrome Act 2022 to be implement three year on . the Minister for Secondary Care say in response that down syndrome - specific guidance would be produce , which be welcome . will the Minister ensure that the consultation group be restrict to organisation that represent down syndrome people only , and will she promise that , after three long year , that statutory guidance will finally be issue before the end of this calendar year ? work to develop the Down Syndrome Act statutory guidance be be take forward as a priority , with a view to publish it for consultation by the summer . it do involve people with Down syndrome , as part of a wide group . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since I report to the House on the Government ' s plan to abolish NHS England , hammer the final nail into the coffin of Lord Lansley ' s disastrous 2012 reorganisation , the reform have be welcome almost universally across Parliament — with the exception of Lord Lansley . I be pleased to report that the new chief executive of NHS England , Sir Jim Mackey , have appoint the transformation team that will deliver well care for patient and well value for taxpayer ' money . we be work closely together as we finalise the 10 - year plan for health , which will be publish around the spending review in June . my constituent June be 74 year old and have stage 4 cancer . she have to queue — not phone , but queue — at her gp surgery at 8 am , only not to be give an appointment . what be the Secretary of State do to stop such dreadful situation ? I be very sorry to hear of June ' s experience . it illustrate why our determination to end the 8 am scramble for appointment be so necessary , start with a new requirement for practice to make online appointment request available through core hour , as well as the big uplift we have invest into general practice . I hope that will start to see improvement so that people like June will not be leave queue outside in the cold . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I take this opportunity to thank the Secretary of State for his kindness follow the death of my father early this month ? it be very much appreciated . I welcome the move to streamline decision making and improve efficiency in the context of the Secretary of State ' s NHS England announcement , if he genuinely drive decentralisation to integrate care board . however , in a write answer on 21 March , the Minister for Secondary Care say : " we recognise there may be some short - term upfront cost as we undertake the integration of NHS England and the Department " . for clarity , can the Secretary of State confirm what the quantum of those reorganisation cost will be and the date by which they will have be recoup ? I be sure that the whole House will want to send our condolence to the right hon . Gentleman follow the loss of his father . it be good to see he back in action — if not always back in action . give the scale of the job reduction and saving that we be seek to make , the total quantum will be determine once the final shape of the organisation be determined . can I also welcome , as I do in January , the Secretary of State ' s commitment to seek to work cross party on the future of social care ? he be right and I welcome that at the time , but like he and many other , we be all keen to see progress . can he update the House on when he anticipate the cross - party talk that be postpone in February will be reschedule to take place ? Baroness Casey will be make contact with all party group in order to set date with party across this House very shortly , and of course she will be kick off her commission in April , which be now only day away . it have be brilliant to meet resident who in recent week have have their operation date bring forward , thank to the additional evening and weekend appointment that the Labour Government have fund , but we know that too many people be still wait too long . what more will minister be do to really drive down waiting list in my community and across the country ? as my hon . Friend say , we have bring NHS waiting list down five month in a row , include during the peak winter pressure . we have deliver the 2 million more appointment we promise seven month early , and we publish our elective reform plan at the beginning of the new year with the Prime Minister , which set out the combination of measure , the investment and the reform that will ensure that we deliver the short waiting time and the fast access to treatment that my hon . friend ' s constituent and people right across the country deserve . I look forward to keep he update . we be not go to get everyone in unless we pick up the pace . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson will set a good example . in last night ' s " Panorama " programme , the Secretary of State be report to have say that he do not need to wait for a review to put more money into social care , which we agree with . if that be the case , will he explain why the Casey commission will take three year , and will he instead commit to get it do this year in order to fix the social care crisis straightaway ? phase 1 of the Casey commission report next year and the final Casey report be due by 2028 , but the Chancellor have already announce an increase in funding for social care in the Budget , through mean that the hon . Lady ' s party regrettably seem to oppose . it be impossible not to be inspire by my constituent Hayley and the bravery of her daughter , Lily , after Lily be diagnose with an optic pathway glioma at the age of just one . Hayley step back from work not just to look after Lily but to make sure she be able to campaign for change . the Government ' s commitment to a national cancer plan be welcome , but with brain tumour not typically be stage or screenable , how can we ensure that they be not overlook as part of the plan ' s development ? I commend my hon . friend ' s constituent for her work with the Brain Tumour Charity , and I wish Lily well with her treatment . the Government have launch the brain tumour research consortium , which will support effort to speed up the diagnosis of tumour and aid the recovery of patient , and the national cancer plan will ensure that we include brain tumour patient . we know that everyone ' s cancer be as unique as they be , and this will be reflect in the plan . in review the NHS workforce plan , will Ministers urgently review the pay and status of register nurse , who be , after all , the backbone of the NHS ? many be now dependent on food bank , thousand be saddle with student debt , and most will expect never to rise beyond band 5 , which be a maximum of £ 35 , 000 a year . the Chancellor take almost immediate action to deliver the uplift in pay for NHS staff that they deserve . we be work closely with the Royal College of Nursing , Unison and other ensure that we tackle the challenge of low pay in the nursing profession that the hon . member describe . since be elect , I have be contact by a number of constituent register with a GP in Scotland who find themselves unable to get medication for which they have a prescription while visit England . will my hon . friend take step to encourage NHS England and NHS Scotland to work together to find a solution that work for patient ? I be very sorry to hear about my hon . friend ' s constituent ' experience . access vital medicine while travel between nation should be seamless , and I will ask NHS England to work with NHS Scotland to well understand what need to change to make thing easy for patient across the UK . in the light of the recently announce 50 % staffing reduction across integrate care board , have the Secretary of State make any assessment of how those cut to the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough ICB will delay the delivery of essential new primary care service for my rapidly grow constituency , particularly in Northstowe , Cambourne and St Neots , where thousand of constituent be already face unacceptable difficulty in access care ? despite the significant uplift announce by the Chancellor at the Budget , system financial return during the planning round suggest an overspend for the come year of between £ 5 billion to £ 6 billion . when I say I would not tolerate overspend in the NHS , I mean it . when I say I would go after unnecessary administrative cost , duplication and bureaucracy , I mean it . that be what this Government be do to protect frontline service . in Saxmundham in my constituency , Dr Havard have lead a campaign for 20 year to transform the healthcare centre into a one - stop community healthcare hub . his practice have already expand service , transform health locally . do the Minister agree that the Saxmundham healthcare hub be an excellent example and model for what this Government be try to do to transform community healthcare ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that shift care from hospital to the community be at the heart of our 10 - year plan . I would be happy to meet the doctor lead this pilot to find out more about the excellent work that she describe . for eight year , I have see how a young constituent have be able to completely control his previously life - threaten seizure with medicinal cannabis , but at huge cost to his family — a cost that be prohibitive for other people . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can make access to such treatment more affordable , accessible and safe , so that we can help more people ? we recently have a helpful debate in Westminster Hall on this topic . we be do more research on this issue to ensure that the evidence base be there . I be happy to discuss the matter far with the hon . member . in the ongoing discussion on assist dying , one point on which we all agree in this House be the urgent need to improve palliative care . I therefore welcome the Government ' s recent £ 100 million commitment to support hospice , include those that help my constituent . can the Minister confirm whether long - term funding for hospice will be a priority in the upcoming 10 - year health service plan ? my hon . friend be right that the hospice sector have be provide with the large capital spend in a generation — £ 100 million . we be also provide £ 26 million of revenue funding to child and young people ' s hospice . I can confirm that hospice will play a key role in our shift from hospital to the community , as he set out in his question . tragically , Ed be just 24 year old when he decide to take his own life , and that be why the family have join we today in the Gallery . what urgent action be the Government take to improve mental healthcare and suicide prevention for young people like Ed ? the hon . member raise an important issue . we be invest in 8 , 500 more mental health specialist , as well as specialist in every school , and in Young Futures hub across the country , to ensure that we do whatever we can to prevent these tragedy . an early day motion from 2007 note that woman be typically wait eight year to be diagnose with endometriosis . shockingly , nearly 20 year later , that wait have increase to nine year . the Government be right to tackle the appalling waiting list for surgery , but the one in 10 woman who suffer with endometriosis often struggle with year of pain before surgery be even suggest . what plan do the Department have to deal with these delay , and how we can ensure that those work in primary care recognise this debilitate condition early ? those statistic be shocking . campaign here and elsewhere have help to raise awareness of endometriosis . the update to National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline will help , as will more appointment , and our commitment to the 18 - week target . training for GPs be now part of the core curriculum , and we expect that to yield good result . NHS England and the Office for National Statistics have look - across to the statistic on diagnostic metric standard . I be happy to update my hon . friend outside the Chamber , and I know other member be also interested in how we be deliver on these commitment . my constituent in South West Hertfordshire remain concerned about the significant delay to the redevelopment of Watford general . with the Chancellor already bring a second emergency Budget before the House tomorrow , and with care home , hospice and charity face unsustainable pressure from this Government ' s national insurance increase , what reassurance can the Minister give my constituent that the Labour party truly care about healthcare , rather than score political point ? the irony ! there be one big difference between what this Government be do and what the conservative party do for 14 year , which be that this Government will actually deliver a new Watford general hospital where the Conservative party fail . do Ministers agree that a logical conclusion of the Darzi report be that the national care service that we be commit to create must be free at the point of use ? as Lord Darzi find , as long as the social care system remain mean - test and the NHS be a universally free service , unmet care need will continue to put unsustainable pressure on our health service . that be a vital issue . the Casey commission will look at how good to create a fair and affordable adult social care system , and at which structural reform will be need where health and social care meet , because reform must always be marry with investment . general practitioner in my constituency have consistently restructure over 10 year of constant systemic and economic pressure . how will the Minister convince the Treasury to exempt GPs from the increase to national insurance contribution , and show my GPs that he have their back ? it be thank to the decision take by the Chancellor in the Budget that we be able to award £ 889 million for general practice . that be why the Minister for Care be able to get the GP contract agree for the first time since the pandemic . opposition member can not continue to welcome the investment and oppose the mean . they have to spell out where they would cut service or raise taxis instead . last year , my constituent Danielle be diagnose with POTS — postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome . she find herself unable to get out of bed and unable to speak for long period . she could not receive care in Scotland . specialist treatment do not seem to exist for POTS . what more can we do for people like Danielle , and what conversation have the Minister have with counterpart about establish specialist treatment in Scotland ? in England , it be the responsibility of local integrate care board to work with clinician , service user and patient group to develop service and care pathway that be convenient and meet the need of patient with POTS . NICE have publish a clinical knowledge summary on the clinical management of blackout and syncope , which provide advice for UK clinician on good practice and the assessment and diagnosis of POTS . I have twice invite Ministers to visit Bridlington district hospital with I to see its much - underutilise potential . in the light of the ongoing challenge face by coastal and rural health service and the newly announce change to integrate care board , may I hope that it will be third time lucky , and extend that invitation once again ? we be delighted to receive the hon . Gentleman ' s representation . we will look carefully at the case he make and will consider visit as diary allow . much to my alarm , the North Central London ICB have recommend the closure of the maternity unit at the Royal Free hospital in my constituency . the Secretary of State know the Royal Free well . will he meet I to see how I can save my local maternity unit , which look after I so well when I have gestational diabete ? these local service be so important for local woman , as my hon . friend have experience . it be really important that reconfiguration be discuss with local member of Parliament , represent their constituent . this be obviously a matter for the local ICB , but I be happy to discuss it far with she . follow my long - run campaign , I be grateful to the Government for finally update the outdated Treasury rule that be prevent local health board from spend more money on keep city centre gp location . will the Government now issue guidance to local health board and NHS trust to accelerate the pooling of resource , so that we can get more service out of hospital and on to our high street , especially as our high street need extra footfall right now ? I be grateful to the hon . member for all the work she have be do on this issue . she be right : we need more integration of service , and we need to look at where we can share facility to achieve well care for patient and well value for taxpayer . the former chair of my local trust , Bradford teaching hospital NHS foundation trust , Dr Max Mclean , have today secure whistleblowe protection for himself in a landmark victory . last week mark a year since a non - exec director at the trust be suspend , and a third non - exec director have put in an ET1 form to the employment tribunal . there appear to be a clear culture of target and witch - hunt whistleblower at Bradford teaching hospital trust . I appreciate the Secretary of State ' s team support I , but give these recent development , will he meet I ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise these serious issue . there be issue of concern here , and she clearly describe a concern situation for the local community . we need to look carefully at what be happen , and the Minister of State for Health , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , would be delighted to meet she . Smile Dental Centre be in one of the least affluent part of my community in Basildon . it be look to expand and provide more NHS dental service , but it have come up against a few issue . will the Minister , or one of his official , meet I and Smile Dental Centre to see what we can unblock to deliver more dental health service for local people ? we be always look for opportunity to unblock more capacity , and I would be happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman . coastal constituency such as mine in Bournemouth East suffer significant health inequality . what be the Government do to address they , and will the Minister meet I and coastal Labour MPs to address the issue ? my hon . friend be right : coastal community face unique challenge when it come to health inequality . I will shortly attend the all - party group for coastal community , where I will meet he and colleague to discuss these issue . as the Secretary of State will know , in 2018 , this House allocate £ 40 million of funding in memory of Dame Tessa Jowell , who be kill by a brain tumour . seven year on , less than half of that money have be spend . the money be do no good sitting in a bank , so will the Secretary of State please commit to spend that money within a decade of Dame Tessa ' s death ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question , as it give I the chance to pay tribute to the late great Baroness Jowell , as well as to the work take place in her name through the Tessa Jowell Brain Cancer Mission . there have be frustrating delay in get fund out the door for the purpose for which it be intend . minister be look carefully at this issue , and we want to make more progress more quickly , to ensure that family do not receive the same death sentence that our late friend do . that conclude Question Time . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . since 14 January , I have table 15 name day write parliamentary question to the Department of Health and Social Care . fourteen have receive a hold response , mean that just one be answer on time . to give a simple example , I ask how many time the Minister have meet Community Pharmacy England . four day later , I receive a standard hold answer , which state that " it will not be possible to answer this question within the usual time period . " it then take five day for an answer to come , which state : " minister meet regularly with external stakeholder on a variety of topic , include , but not limit to , pharmacy . " may I ask your advice , Mr Speaker ? what mechanism be in place to ensure that name day question be answer on time ? if they continue not to be answer on time , how can I escalate the matter far ? first , I be disappointed that question be not be answer , but I be not responsible for ministerial answer . I hope that those on the Treasury Bench , include the Secretary of State , have take on board the importance of reply . name day question be call that because they be mean to be answer on the day that be name . I be very disappointed . the Department may be overwork ; if that be the case , perhaps we ought to bring in staff from other Departments to ensure that question be answer on time . I know that the Secretary of State will have immediately make a note to ensure that those question be answer . Asylum Hotels and Illegal Channel Crossings ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Home Secretary to make a statement on asylum hotel and illegal immigrant cross the channel . as the right hon . Member be aware , the Home Office discharge its statutory duty to provide accommodation and to support destitute asylum seeker through seven asylum accommodation and support service contract . those contract be enter into by the previous Government , commence in 2019 , and be split between three provider : Clearsprings Ready Homes Ltd , Serco Ltd , and Mears Ltd . significant element of the behaviour and performance of one of the sub - contractor of Clearsprings Ready Homes fall short of what we would expect from a Government supplier . that be why the Home Office have inform Clearsprings Ready Homes that it must exit the arrangement with a subcontractor in its supply chain , stay Belvedere Hotels . we will not hesitate to take further action in respect of Clearsprings and its wide supply chain if that prove necessary , and we be conduct a full audit of our supply chain . we expect the high standard from those contract to provide essential service , and this Government will always hold they to account for delivery , performance and value for money . where there be concern about how contractor or their subcontractor be discharge their contractual obligation , we will not hesitate to take swift and decisive action . the Home Office progress matter relate to these contract with its provider in commercial confidentiality . I will not give a running commentary , but I assure the House that whatever the position with any of its provider , the Home Office remain focused on maintain continuity of service and ensure that our statutory obligation be meet at all time , and have contingency plan in this regard . none of that take away from our commitment to reduce the huge cost of asylum hotel , which remain our priority . in relation to channel crossing , this Government have put forward a serious , credible plan to restore order to our asylum system , include tough enforcement power , ramp up return to their high level for more than half a decade , and a major crackdown on illegal working to end the false promise of job , use by gang to sell space on boat . increase law enforcement action and disruption be already show some indication of pressure on the business model of the gang , and we be introduce new power for law enforcement to use against the vile trade in people smuggle and trafficking . last summer , the Government be elect on a promise to end the use of asylum hotel . well , it have now be nine month , so let we see how they be get on . the use of asylum hotel have go up by 8 , 000 since the general election — it have not go down ; it have go up . some 38 , 000 mainly illegal immigrant be now in those hotel , cost hard - work taxpayer around £ 2 billion a year . it be completely unacceptable that taxpayer be ask to foot a bill that size . the people live in those hotel break our law by come here from France , which be a manifestly safe country that nobody need to leave . I have a very simple question for the Minister : when will the Government end the use of asylum hotel ? during the election campaign last summer and subsequently , the Government also promise to " smash the gang " , but that promise now lie in tatter . in the nine month since the election , 29 , 162 people — nearly 30 , 000 people — have illegally cross the english channel , which be a 31 % increase on the same period 12 month before . in fact , 2025 be even bad . since 1 January , more people have cross the english channel illegally than in any year in history — this be the bad year . it be 38 % bad than the previous bad year , so thing be get bad not well . they have not smash the gang , but capitulate to they . the hon . Lady mention return . Most of those return do not relate to people who arrive by small boat . in fact , those people be return who come by small boat amount to only about 4 % of small boat arrival ; I do not know how let 96 % of people who arrive by small boat stay here be a deterrent . at the weekend , we see briefing — to the press and not to Parliament , Mr Speaker — that the Government be now consider some kind of offshore removal scheme . that sound vaguely familiar ! at last they have realise that some kind of removal deterrent be need . will the Minister now apologise for cancel the Rwanda deterrent before it even start and , as a consequence , lose control of our border ? I will not take any lesson from the shadow Minister . in his last three month as Immigration Minister , nearly 10 , 000 people cross the channel in small boat , but he be complain about half that level of crossing happen in the past three month . neither will I take any lesson from someone who serve in a Government who preside over a situation where , at its height , there be 56 , 000 people in more than 400 hotel . we be get a grip on the problem by start up asylum processing once more , but we inherit a huge backlog . there be a 70 % fall in asylum processing in the run - up to the general election , with more than 100 , 000 people stick without be process in the asylum system . we be get a grip of that , but by definition , the backlog and chaos that the Conservatives leave we be take time . do the Minister share my astonishment at the shadow Home Secretary ' s argument give that the Conservatives waste ten of million of pound on accommodation that could not be use and billion on hotel ? the state of the asylum system that we inherit be unbelievable . will the Minister commit to reform that seriously dysfunctional system , include scrutinise asylum contract with the provider when the break clause come up next year ? we inherit a system in chaos and a series of asylum contract worth billion of pound that be 10 year long , with a break clause in 2026 , so we be look seriously at what we can do to get well value for public money in those contract . the action on Stay Belvedere Hotels Ltd be one example of the work we be do to drive well value in the contract that we inherit . we will not tolerate the behaviour of subcontractor or contractor who do not provide good value for money , which be why we have insist that Clearsprings Ready home remove Stay Belvedere Hotels Ltd from its supply chain . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure to be back in the Chamber to hear the shadow Home Secretary ' s great hit of conservative failure from the last Parliament , whether it be cut to neighbourhood policing or the woeful handling of the asylum system under the previous Government , in which he be a Home Office Minister . of course the Home Office should ensure that all asylum accommodation provider deliver value for money , safety and security , but tinker with contract will not change the fact that asylum hotel be a lose - lose . they eat up taxpayer money and leave local council and community to sort out the mess . to pick date at random , the share of asylum application that receive an initial decision within six month fall from 83 % in the second quarter of 2015 to just 6 % towards the end of the last Government ' s time in office . when do the Minister think that the processing of application will speed up so that the backlog will come down , community such as mine will get the use of their hotel back and those grant refugee status can integrate and contribute to our economy ? I certainly agree with the hon . Lady that the shadow Home Secretary sound like a broken record ; we be well used to he run that argument in this place . I also agree that the key to deal with hotel be to get the system back up and run from the chaos that it be in . I can tell the hon . Lady that asylum processing at first decision have ramp up considerably and we be get through the backlog we inherit , but there be also a huge backlog by definition in the appeal system , partly cause by the legacy appeal — the dash to end the legacy system ahead of the fantasy Rwanda scheme beginning — which have lead to a big backlog in appeal . we be look to see what we can do about that , because it be important that we get a fast and fair system from end to end , and that include appeal . because the previous Government lose complete control of our border , the Leyland hotel in my constituency of South Ribble be close down three year ago — yes , three year ago — and use for asylum seeker . there be a chronic undersupply of hotel in South Ribble , Chorley , Preston and central Lancashire . can Ministers provide any indication at all of when the hotel will cease to be use as an asylum hotel ? I be ask that question every single week . I want to get out of hotel as quickly as be feasible . I will not name particular date , because that be a pointless thing to do . we have to get through the appeal system and the first asylum processing system so that we can move people through the system much more quickly . we also need to continue our work on ramp up return , which have see a huge increase — the high figure for the last five year — and we intend to continue with that process . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the medium be report that the early the contract can be break be September next year . can the Minister confirm whether that be the case ? what liability do the taxpayer have for a contract end today that we can not get out of until September next year ? the right hon . Lady be talk about the prime contractor , which in this case be Clearsprings Ready home . as with the other two contractor , the break clause be with it . we have approval or not of sub - prime contractor . stay Belvedere Hotels Ltd be a sub - prime contractor , and as the Home Office we have withdraw our approval for it to be in the supply chain . the shadow Home Secretary have a nerve to come to this House and make that argument when we in the community see the damage that the contract he manage do to the public purse . shall we revisit some of those great hit ? his contract put council and Clearsprings against each other , push up price and make it impossible for local community to help those house there . he cause absolute chaos . I have in my hand one of the letter that the hon . Gentleman ' s Government be present to people who be refugee , give they less than five day ' notice of where they be be move , mean that school place have to be hastily reorganise and child have to be hastily re - clothed because of the decision he make on public fund . absolutely no saving be make in the way in which he manage the contract . will my hon . friend make a commitment and a pledge to all of we who have have to deal with Clearsprings and its chaotic management that when she have the opportunity to renegotiate the contract , or possibly even break it for good , she will put public value for money first and not repeat the chaos of the shadow Home Secretary ? we be do all that we can with the exist contract to drive value for money , and we be also look to pilot some other potential alternative to supply . I call the Father of the House . under the refugee convention , we can automatically deport illegal migrant who come here , but under the european convention on human right we can not . I have a probe new clause move on my behalf in Committee on this subject , and , with your permission , Mr Speaker , I hope to move it again on Report . I know that the Minister can not answer absolutely now , but will she look at that new clause in a constructive spirit ? surely we can all agree that we do not want criminal enter this country illegally . I certainly agree with the Father of the House on that subject . we have a small but perfectly form debate , albeit in his absence , on his new clause , and I look forward to debate it with he on Report of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . I think I still have the large number of asylum seeker in hotel in the country , with more than 2 , 000 , and I have experience of Clearsprings and stay Belvedere . it would be really helpful if the new contractual arrangement involve full consultation with some of the organisation work at the frontline of support asylum seeker , so that some of the lesson can be learn about past performance to improve future performance . I be more than happy to meet with the right hon . gentleman to talk about his experience on the ground with respect to both Stay Belvedere Hotels Ltd and Clearsprings Ready Homes . I hope I be not the only person here who be utterly depressed by the complete lack of compassion show by the shadow Home Secretary and the lack of recognition that the people we be talk about have story of their own and have experience horror that we can barely even imagine . be it not right that we look at this in a more thoughtful way ? to reduce cost to the taxpayer and help those who will be successful asylum seeker to integrate , would it not be wise to allow people who be asylum seeker to work after be here for three month ? those asylum seeker who have not have their claim process within a year through no fault of their own be allow access to work . I be unconvinced that allow access to work early would do anything other than create more demand for people to come here . it be widely accept across the whole country , include in my constituency , that the Conservatives leave we with open border , with 150 , 000 people cross on their watch and the opening of 400 asylum hotel , cost our taxpayer £ 9 million per day . this government have already establish Border Security Command and have deport 19 , 000 people ; that be record number , up 24 % from what the opposition could achieve . we be also bring in counter - terror power to take on the smuggling gang . do the Minister agree that the opposition need to get behind our Bill , so that those counter - terror power can empower the National Crime Agency to take out the smuggling gang ? my hon . friend be correct that the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which have be through Committee and be await its Report stage , will create counter - terror - style power that will help we prevent some of these crossing and disrupt the sophisticated criminal smuggling gang that be allow to take hold across the channel , unabate by the conservative party . it will enable we to tackle this problem at source by work across border with colleague in other country , tackle the people - smuggle route as well as the gang . when in opposition , the Labour party talk tough about what it would do when it enter government . as my right hon . friend the shadow Home Secretary have say , though , small boat arrival and hotel use be both up , and asylum seeker be be wave through the system just to make the Minister ' s number look good . this all reek of arrogance and complacency , and we be now see the real - world impact ; for example , Wethersfield in my constituency have see the number of asylum seeker user go up . while Labour talk tough before the election , it take thing off the statute book before it replace they with anything else , so when will the Minister actually come to the House with serious proposal to reduce the number of small boat arrival , which have go up by over 30 % on her Government ' s watch ? the right hon . Gentleman say that Wethersfield be now get more people , but it be still not hold the number that his Government plan for it to hold when it be open , so that be rather an odd argument for he to make . if he be serious about reduce the problem at our border , I would have think that he would want to support the counter - terrorism - style power in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , but it seem that he be not . under this Government , illegal workplace raid and arrest be up by a third . while that be welcome , we all know from our high street and constituency that there be still a way to go , so can the Minister confirm that we will continue at pace on this trajectory to send a clear message that the UK will not tolerate people abuse the asylum system , or indeed illegal activity in any form ? yes . of course , we have to crack down on abuse of our asylum system , but also on the exploitation of vulnerable and desperate people by vicious criminal gang . during Committee proceeding on the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , I say to the Minister that it would only be a matter of time before the Government concoct some sort of Rwanda - style deportation scheme . even I do not think that it would come so quickly , if weekend press report be to be believe . can the Minister say that those report be totally not true , and will she now rule out ever implement a third country deportation scheme like the one introduce by the Conservatives ? I be not go to comment on leak . I welcome the decision to close napier barrack in my constituency , where there have be long - stand concern about condition , among other issue . what assurance can the Minister give my constituent , as well as those be hold there , that this site will be operate properly until it close in September ? if my hon . and learn Friend want to talk to I about any of the detail , I would be happy to listen , but of course we want to operate that site properly and appropriately until we hand it back to the Ministry of Defence in September . give that the Government do not believe in send illegal immigrant to third country such as Rwanda , can the Minister explain how they plan to deport people who have destroy their document so that we do not know their country of origin ? or be the solution to keep those people here forever — in hotel , or in one of the 1 . 5 million home that labour plan to build ? Mr Deputy Speaker — sorry , Mr Speaker . I do not know why I be call you Mr Deputy Speaker today ; I have go back a very long time to when you be , but that be so long ago that I can scarcely remember it . my apology , Mr Speaker . the right hon . Lady should remember that the Rwanda scheme be about deport people for good , not deal with their asylum claim . that be not in any way what this Government would ever consider do , which be why that scheme be cancel . the shadow Home Secretary can complain all he want , but while he be in the Home Office , 75 , 000 people cross the channel , with thousand house in hundred of hotel across the country . a fail Rwanda scheme and a complete freeze on asylum decision making be the reason that the cost of hotel rise to £ 9 million a day ; everything stop just to send four volunteer to Rwanda , and the shadow Home Secretary be responsible for the chaos . do my hon . friend agree that the only party in this House that vote for the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill will be the party that sort this chaos out ? I agree with my hon . friend . we all want to stop the perilous channel crossing that be cost vulnerable people their life , so what step be the Government now take to boost further co - operation with Europol so that we can smash the gang that be profit from misfortune ? we have put more resource into Europol to co - operate with european partner across border . operationally , we be work across Europe ; we have a new agreement with the german Government and an agreement on sanction and illicit finance with the italian Government , and the Calais Group have meet in London . we be do a lot of work with source area and country such as Vietnam , not only on return but on counter some of the advert that tell lie about the kind of life that await those who get on perilous small boat . we be work with our international colleague across the piece , both diplomatically and operationally , to try to put pressure on the international criminal gang and begin to close down this evil trade . under the Conservative party , the asylum budget balloon to over £ 4 billion , take 28 % of our overseas development assistance for in - country refugee cost — mainly hotel — against an OECD average of 13 . 8 % , make we a big outlier internationally . I welcome the commitment to speed up processing and reduce hotel use , but with the aid budget be reduce to 0 . 3 % from 2027 , can the Minister reassure I that an ever - increase chunk of a small aid budget will not be spend in - country , instead of on support vital poverty alleviation work internationally ? it be clearly important that overseas development money be use to try to prevent the flow of people that have be the result of collapse in various country . we in the Home Office will do all we can to minimise the spend that we currently take from the overseas development aid budget . Mr Speaker , you will know that most of the illegal cross - channel migrant who come to this country come through my constituency , at the processing centre in Manston . as such , I have take a particular interest in this subject . what I have to say be certainly not go to be popular , either among Conservative Members or among Labour Members , but neither be it go to be populist . the Home Secretary and I — not together — both visit the Calais area recently . we see there hundred if not thousand of very determined , very desperate people who be go to risk their life to cross the channel . the Conservatives ' Rwanda scheme and this Government ' s much - vaunted smashing of the gang will not solve that problem . there be no quick fix , and the only solution will be long term and international . in that context , do the Minister believe that cut overseas aid be go to do anything other than worsen the problem ? I suggest that the right hon . Gentleman raise that issue with the Chancellor . it beggar belief that the Conservatives have the gall to question the action we have take as a Government in clear up the mess they leave behind , because they simply stop do anything other than waste £ 9 billion of taxpayer ' money . we have return 19 , 000 people with no right to be here , we have increase Border Force , and we have increase work with our european ally and our intelligence service , but there be more to do . it be a mess , and people in our country feel let down and a deep mistrust of politician . that be cause division and rumour mill to develop and fester in our community . can the Minister tell I what we be do as a Government to rebuild public trust and community cohesion ? do she agree that that should start right here in this House ? I believe that people need to think about the language they use and the impression of human being they give when they talk about this very emotive issue . it raise huge concern , I know . as a government , we have certainly get to do all we can to try to reassure people that we can get this system back under control , after find a chaotic mess when we come into Government . I recently write to the Minister to request the estimate saving the Government expect from the closure of 10 asylum seeker hotel . in response , I be inform that while the Home Office publish datum on the number of people house in hotel , it do not report on the number of room occupy . a hotel accommodate people in share room incur significantly different cost from one where individual occupy separate room , yet that critical distinction be overlook . give that effective policy decision must be base on clear evidence , will the Minister commit to publishing room occupancy datum to ensure accountability and informed decision making ? I will write to the hon . Gentleman . I can assure asylum seeker that they will be treat with kindness and compassion in my human right city of York . however , tragically , a mother at full term lose her baby at a hotel . will the Minister give a guarantee that pregnant woman will not be move from hotel to hotel , so that they can have continuity of service and a safe pregnancy ? that certainly should not be happen . if my hon . friend want to talk to I about it , I will try to see what happen in that instance . a directive from the Treasury report in the Times appear to suggest that house building by the Government will help with the backlog of asylum seeker stay in hotel . do the Minister believe that individual who have arrive in the UK illegally should be give access to social housing ahead of british citizen ? no . back in 2021 , the Conservatives , when in government , tell the town of Blackpool that they would use the Metropole hotel as an asylum hotel for three month . they lose control of the border and drive the asylum system into chaos , and we be still pay the price now , in one of the most deprived community in the country . do the Minister agree that we need to close these hotel as soon as possible and give back that prime real estate — especially in coastal community such as Blackpool — to help the tourism industry thrive ? we do not believe that it be sustainable to keep hotel use indefinitely , and we be work to close hotel . small boat crossing be up 30 % since the general election . the number of illegal asylum seeker in the asylum hotel in my constituency of Broxbourne be also up . illegal asylum seeker be be prioritise for GP appointment and school place , which be outrageous to I and my hard - work constituent . can the Minister tell the House when she will meet her manifesto commitment of close the asylum hotel in my constituency of Broxbourne ? our aim be to close asylum hotel and get out of what we feel be an unsustainable situation as quickly as practicable . I be sure that the Minister agree that one of the root cause of this crisis be the last government ' s politically motivate action , first slow down and then freeze the processing of asylum application . I have asylum seeker wait 10 or more year for a decision . the british public want to see a contribution by asylum seeker to the system , reduce the public burden on taxpayer , so have the Minister consider lift the ban on work so that people wait more than six month for a decision can contribute to our tax system until a decision be make ? asylum seeker who wait long than a year be allow to work , so long as that wait have not be cause by they — that is , a wait through no fault of their own . we have that system now , and I be not consider shorten the length of time that must elapse before work be allow . rise — order . question be get considerably long . can we keep they on point ? like the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) , I have visit Calais on a number of occasion , and I have meet people there who be desperate . they be victim of war , human right abuse , environmental degradation and sheer poverty and desperation . they do not cross the channel without a reason to do it . what conversation be the Minister have with those in european country , north Africa and the middle east about the root cause of the huge number of people globally who be seek asylum at the present time ? inhumanity and deportation will not work . I do not apologise for deport people who have no right to be here or who have be through the system and be discover neither to be asylum seeker nor to have any right to stay in the country . I accept the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about the desperate situation that people be in . they could claim asylum in the country they be in , and we need to work with our counterpart in the European Union and along all the route to see what we can do to divert those people who be seek a well life in our country and see if we can look after they close to home . under this Labour Government , illegal work raid and arrest be up by a third . do the Minister agree that that send a clear message that the UK will not and should not tolerate those who abuse our immigration system , and that we will crack down on illegal activity in all its form ? yes . illegal working arrest and visit have increase by 38 % . More people have be arrest . More people have be fine . we be seek to ban those who abuse illegal worker — often underpay they and treat they like modern slave — from run company . the fine be now £ 60 , 000 per illegal worker . there be no reason why legitimate small business should be undermine by illegal working and illegal practice . be the Government consider send fail asylum seeker to overseas return hub ? I be not go to comment on leak . it be always a pleasure to see the shadow Home Secretary shoot himself in the foot , particularly when he bring a sawn - off shotgun to do the job . the Government be get a grip on the issue of asylum hotel , and the Conservatives should be ashamed . we hear in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill Committee how child be be target for organ harvesting and for sexual abuse and be go miss from the system . the Conservatives put Bills on the statute book that they never implement , and I be pleased that this Government have commit to close asylum hotel . they have give I the assurance that they will not be add hotel in Bournemouth . when the conservative on the Bill Committee define a deterrent , they say it be about detain and deporting . do my hon . friend agree that the Conservatives neither detain nor deport , so we should stop call the Rwanda gimmick a deterrent ? I agree with my hon . friend . between the announcement of the Rwanda scheme and its ending , 85 , 000 people come across in small boat . last month we learn that overseas development assistance would be cut from 0 . 5 % to 0 . 3 % of gross national income . some of we assume that this saving would be find in the closure of so - call asylum hotel , but now we learn that the Government will continue to hire hotel for many year to come despite the broken contract . the Minister say that she want to minimise the effect on the ODA budget , but how much of it will remain ? I understand that , ahead of the reduction that be announce , 20 % be currently spend on housing asylum seeker in this country . clearly , if we can get the system run fast from start to finish and we can get people through it fast , we can reduce those cost . this Government inherit a chaotic and broken system and disorder at the border . under the last Conservative Government , the local community be deprive of a manor house in my constituency because it be use as an asylum hotel . can the Minister confirm that it be the hard - yard mission of this government to close those hotel and give they back to their community ? yes , that be our aim . I appreciate that the Minister ' s curt response suggest that she be struggle somewhat with her brief , but do she actually know how many gang have be smash ? if she do not know , and on the basis of her previous answer to I I suspect that she do not , why do she not know , and if she do know , will she inform the House — unless , of course , the answer be that no gang have yet be smash ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his belief in my ability to get on top of my brief . the National Crime Agency recently arrest three man in the UK who be want in Belgium after be convict of be member of an afghan organise crime group . it have arrest a turkish national suspect of be one of the most significant supplier of boat and engine to gang , who be detain in Amsterdam follow a joint operation involve the NCA and belgian and dutch police . there have be conviction of two man base in south Wales who run a people - smuggle ring that involve move thousand of migrant through Iran , Iraq and Syria and across Europe . as a result of a major international operation involve the NCA target a syrian organise crime group consider to be one of Europe ' s most significant people - smuggle gang , at least 20 people be arrest in a series of raid across the continent , include one in the United Kingdom . that be just what have be happen recently . a great deal more work be go on involve many , many investigation , the fruit of which will be bear — and we will talk about it — when it be deliver . I commend the work that the Government have undertake with european country and other to smash the criminal smuggler gang , such as the french deployment of specialist unit on the beach , german raid on small boat warehouse and , indeed , the effort of my right hon . friend the Home Secretary in Iraq and in respect of the Kurdistan Regional Government in Iraq . can the Minister confirm that although we will not smash the gang overnight , the Government remain committed to work with our international partner to secure our border ? we be do that work day in , day out . if the Conservatives have not allow smuggling gang to take hold across the channel for six year , we would not be experience the difficulty that we be experience now in deal with they . [ interruption . ] this take time , there be no simple , easy solution , and chuntere about it from the Opposition Front Bench — which , let we face it , be where the Conservatives belong — will not make any difference . in the first nine month of this government we have witness the cruel impact of their decision making on farmer , pensioner and WASPI woman — people who have work all their life — while taxpayer ' money continue to fund hotel accommodation for economic migrant arrive illegally via the channel . my constituent want to see the Government put british citizen first , rather than prioritise spending on those who be arrive illegally . what can the Minister say to they today ? it be important , in order to deal with the chaos that we inherit , to create a system that be fast , fair and much easy to get through than the one we inherit . unless the hon . Lady want people to be destitute on the street , we have to look after they while we be process their asylum claim . speed be important , as well as ensure that we do that processing fairly . I thank the Minister and her colleague in the Department for the work that they be do to tackle illegal immigration , especially the enforcement against the gang who put vulnerable life at risk . my constituent want illegal immigration stop , and the chaotic huffing and puffing from the Conservatives be one of the reason they be boot out on this issue at the general election . it be important to restore faith in politic that we deliver on it . do the Minister believe that the exist legal framework on asylum and return will allow we to do so ? the Prime Minister have make it clear that the answer will not be to ignore international law , so we have to ensure that we create a system that be fast and fair and do the job much more effectively than the one we inherit . we be look into how we can make change to ensure that that happen . everyone agree that we must have sensible immigration policy , but do the Minister agree that phrase such as " stop the boat " and " smash the gang " be just populist sloganeer that dehumanise the most vulnerable in society and serve as a scapegoat for successive Government shortcoming include the £ 700 million spend on the useless Rwanda scheme , the billion waste on personal protective equipment , and the lack of investment in the NHS ? that be the reason why people can not obtain appointment with their gps , not people arrive on a boat . do the Minister agree that we must take a holistic approach , include perhaps open up safe route and efficient processing , so that when people arrive in this country they can start work from day one ? I do not think that safe route would stop people try to get into this country clandestinely . it be important that we can assert control at the border so that we decide who come into our country , not the people - smuggle gang . when I speak to my constituent , they accept that the last Government overspent by billion on the asylum system and it fall to this Government to make the difficult decision to settle the bill . what they can not accept be that it be fair for taxpayer to continue to be expect to spend £ 9 million a day on asylum hotel . that be a mark of shame for the last government , and it may become one for we unless it be resolve . what step will the Minister take to speed up processing , increase return and end the use of hotel for good ? we have restart asylum processing , and we be look into what we can do to speed up the appeal backlog that we inherit . we will create a system that be fast , firm and fair so that we can get people out of asylum hotel , which be not a sustainable model for the future . I thank the Minister for her answer to the question that other have pose . there be a clear difference between asylum seeker — those flee persecution , those who be threaten — and economic migrant . how can the Government gain control of accommodation for those who be economic migrant to reduce this horrific bill ? in my constituency , as in other , people be sleep on floor in the home of family member because the Housing Executive that have responsibility back home can not cope with demand . how will the Minister , and the Government , ensure that family and child be house , whether they be asylum seeker or british citizen ? my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister make some announcement recently about the capacity to increase house building in this country in order to deal with some of the pressure on demand . it be important from an asylum seeker point of view that we make the system work end to end much fast so that we can get people through it , deport those who have no right to be here , and integrate those who have be accept as asylum seeker . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the head of Dover Port Health Authority have tell the House that if funding be not secure for the new financial year , food security check at the border will be stop . on 6 February I ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to confirm that funding . he do not answer , and have not respond to my two write parliamentary question on the subject . we be now more than two week past the deadline for a response and day away from the new financial year , with no answer to the question of whether those important check at our border will continue . may I please have your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how we can secure a prompt and accurate response from the Secretary of State before the check for diseased meat , in particular , be stop ? I be not sure whether the Chair be alert to that point of order . it be always good to give prior notice on the exact language . the right hon . Member will know that that be not a matter for the Chair , but she have put her point on the record . no doubt those on the Treasury Bench will have hear it and will pass on her view . Bill present Arm ' s - Length Bodies ( accountability to Parliament ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to make provision for arm ' s length body to be directly accountable to Parliament . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March , and to be print ( Bill 208 ) . regulator ( Growth Objective ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide for the inclusion of economic growth as an objective for certain statutory regulator ; and for connected purpose . for too long , our regulatory system have be tangle , inefficient and disconnected from the mission of economic growth and prosperity . instead of foster investment , encourage innovation and deliver good job , regulation have too often act as a brake on progress : too slow , too risk - averse and too unpredictable . the previous Government hide behind regulator , defer decision , create unnecessary bureaucracy and allow inefficiency to flourish . too many business today face an overlapping , complex regulatory environment , with too many regulator , too many conflict duty and too little co - ordination . it be a system that frustrate ambition and slow down investment . this Government be determined to change that . under the leadership of the Prime Minister , the Chancellor , and the Business Secretary , the Government be commit to smart regulation : regulation that be pro - growth , pro - innovation and — yes — pro - worker . we recognise that regulation , when design and implement well , be not an obstacle but a tool . it be a tool to unlock private investment , tackle systemic risk , protect the environment , and deliver well outcome for people and community . Britain ' s business , large and small , be ready to drive economic growth , but they can only do so if the regulatory system enable they . there be now more than 100 regulatory body , many with overlap mandate and responsibility . the 17 key regulator the Prime Minister write to in December collectively employ 36 , 000 staff and spend £ 5 . 4 billion a year . that be a significant national investment , but one that too often lack strategic co - ordination . instead of work together , many regulator operate in silos duplicate work , slow decision , and create unnecessary cost and confusion for business . their power and duty have expand over time , without any overarching framework to keep they align . the result be a fragmented , sometimes contradictory system that no long serve our national economic interest . a clear example be the Payment Systems Regulator . firm operate payment system like Mastercard or Faster Payments be force to engage with three different regulator just to function in the UK . that mean three set of rule , three set of process and three set of conversation to deliver just one service . for major firm , it be frustrating . for small or scale business , it be a serious obstacle . that be why the Prime Minister announce its abolition , with its core responsibility to be fold into the Financial Conduct Authority . this be not about deregulation for deregulation ' s sake . it be about smart simplification : remove duplication , reduce cost and create clear point of accountability . in short , it be about regulate for growth . but let we be clear : one example be not enough . the problem be systemic . the entire regulatory landscape need to be review , streamline and refocus around a share mission of economic growth . that be what the Regulators ( Growth Objective ) Bill would deliver . the Bill would support the Government ' s broad regulate for growth agenda . the Chancellor and the Business Secretary have now publish a radical new action plan , back by business , to create a more agile , investment - friendly regulatory environment . as part of that work , the Chancellor secure 60 pledge from regulator that will deliver real , tangible change within the next 12 month . the CBI rightly call it : " a shift towards more proportionate , outcome - base regulation . " this be practical , pro - growth reform : deliver for business , support by business . but we must be clear that regulation can be both pro - growth and pro our other priority , too . balanced , purposeful regulation can support growth , and support the environment , strengthen public trust and raise living standard . take the Government ' s new deal for work people . opposition Members claim that our proposal — to raise the minimum wage and end exploitative zero - hour contract , introduce day - one right against unfair dismissal , and expand access to sick pay and parental leave — be somehow misalign with the Government ' s wide approach to regulation . but they fail to recognise that for too long , the UK have operate with a labour market divide between secure , well - pay job and a grow share of insecure , low - pay work . the result be a low - wage , low - productivity doom loop . our new deal for work people be regulation with a purpose , make work more secure , business more productive and the economy strong . these policy be not just good for worker ; they be good for business , too . the Government be not tear up the regulatory rulebook , but rewrite it for a new era . we can and must learn lesson from home and abroad . take Japan ' s Top Runner programme , a pioneer regulatory approach that set energy efficiency standard base on the well - perform product on the market , push industry to innovate and improve . by combine ambitious target with industrial flexibility , it have successfully drive technological advancement and economic growth , while also reduce energy consumption . or take the push by UK financial regulator to require major bank to open up their customer datum , with consent , to third party . that have help to create a globally lead fintech ecosystem , with investment in UK fintech soar . the Bill would force we to ask : " how we can repeat those success in other sector ? " for too long , regulator have be leave without that kind of strategic guidance , force to make politically sensitive decision in a vacuum . that be not fair on they , and it be not good for the country . the Bill give regulator the direction they have be miss . it do not ask they to stop do their work ; it ask they to do it well , together , and with a share focus on create prosperity . because when regulation drift , so do the economy . yet right now , there be no formal mechanism to align regulator with the Government ' s growth strategy . the Bill would provide it . it enshrine one simple principle : regulator must not only regulate for risk , they must regulate for growth . that mean : every regulator must consider the impact of their decision on investment , innovation and prosperity ; and regulator must work together , end duplication and align around share national priority . growth would become a statutory objective , not an afterthought . this be not theory ; it be delivery . regulation be not confine to the corridor of Whitehall . its effect be feel in constituency across our nation . the Bill be a call to action for the Government to bring forward a full review of regulator ’ duty and objective , with the ambition of create a simple , smart framework fit for the modern economy . too many of our regulator be operate under a patchwork of outdated or overlapping mandate . the result be duplication , drift and decision that lack co - ordination or clarity . it be confusing for business , inefficient for regulator , and a barrier to growth . that be why today I urge the Government to go far and begin the work of legislate for a core set of statutory duty , include growth , across the regulatory landscape : duty that promote long - term growth and investment , protect consumer and the environment , and embe a culture of speed , clarity and accountability in decision making ; and a system where regulator remain independent , but the expectation place on they be consistent , transparent and align with our national priority . we will continue to protect what matter : safety , fairness , the environment and public trust . however , we must also deliver on what move we forward towards innovation , economic renewal and growth . growth be not a luxury — it be how we raise living standard , improve public service and restore pride in every part of this country . let we give regulator a clear foundation . let we bring forward a new legislative framework that reflect the ambition of a dynamic , pro - growth Britain . let we regulate for growth . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Luke Murphy , Mr Luke Charters , Uma Kumaran , Lola McEvoy , Chris Curtis , Sonia Kumar , Gregor Poynton , Kanishka Narayan , Mike Reader , Ms Polly Billington , Rachel Blake and Anneliese Midgley present the Bill . Luke Murphy accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July , and to be print ( Bill 207 ) . National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill consideration of Lords message I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 1b , 5b and 8b . if the House agree to any of those amendment , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . after clause 1 - Exemptions from the change make by section 1 : NHS and social care I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1b . with this it will be convenient to consider the Government motion to disagree with Lords amendment 5b , 8b and 21B . I welcome the opportunity to consider the new Lords amendment to the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill . I start by repeat my thank to member of both Houses for their careful scrutiny and consideration of the Bill . four new amendment have be make during consideration of the Bill in the other place , which we will seek to address today . as I remind hon . member last week , when we enter government , we inherit a fiscal situation that be completely unsustainable , and we have have to take difficult but necessary decision to repair the public finance and rebuild our public service . the measure in the Bill represent some of the tough of those decision , but they , along with other measure in the Budget , have enable we to restore fiscal responsibility and get public service back on their foot . the amendment from the other place before we today put at risk the funding that the Bill seek to raise . let I be clear again : to support the amendment be to support high borrowing , low spending or other tax rise . it be with that in mind that I turn to the first group of amendment : lord amendment 1b , 5b and 8b . these amendment seek to create power as part of the Bill to exempt certain group from the change to employer national insurance rate and threshold in the future , include exemption for care provider , NHS GP practice , NHS - commission dentist and pharmacist , charitable provider of health and care and those provide hospice care . it also include power to exempt business or organisation with few than 25 full - time employee from the change to the employer national insurance threshold . I thank the Minister for give way so early in his speech . I just want to understand very clearly why the Government think that the NHS , under the banner of NHS England , should — rightly , in my opinion — be exempt from national insurance contribution , but that other part of the NHS , such as GP surgery , dentist and hospice care , should not . as I set out during consideration of Lords amendment last week , and , indeed , at pretty much every other stage of consideration of the Bill , the response to the change in employer national insurance contribution that we be undertake as a Government be in line with what the hon . Gentleman ' s Government do with the health and social care levy in the previous Parliament — namely provide direct support for public employer , mean central government , local government and public corporation . that be the standard way in which support for employer national insurance contribution change be respond to . as I have set out , the revenue raise from the measure in the Bill will play a critical role in repair the public finance and rebuild our public service . clearly , any future change that would exempt certain group from pay national insurance would have cost implication , which , as I have make clear , would necessitate high borrowing , low spending or alternative revenue - raise measure . it be for that reason that I ask the House to support the Government ' s position by disagree to amendment 1b , 5b and 8b . the Commons ' disagreement to Lords amendment 1 , debate last week , state that the amendment " interfere with the public revenue , and the Commons do not offer any further Reason . " do the Minister not think that those we represent would — just perhaps — prefer to see their tax income generously donate via spending on child ' s hospice , rather than spend on an idiotic deal to spend million of pound on the Chagos island ? the right hon . Gentleman raise the question of hospice during last week ' s debate on amendment from the other place . as I make clear at the time , although hospice do not receive support to meet the change in employer national insurance contribution , we greatly value the work they do . I point to the wide support that the Government be give the hospice sector — namely , the £ 100 million boost for adult and child ' s hospice to ensure they have the good physical environment for care , and the £ 26 million revenue to support child and young people ' s hospice . the right hon . Gentleman also refer to people give to hospice , which be establish as charity . of course , the Government provide support for charity , include hospice , through the tax regime , which be among the most generous in the world , with tax relief for charity and their donor worth just over £ 6 billion for the tax year to April 2024 . Lords amendment 21B would require the Government to conduct assessment on the economic and sectoral impact of the Bill . as we have discuss previously , the Government have already publish an assessment of this policy in a tax information and impact note publish by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . that note set out that , as a result of measure in the Bill , around 250 , 000 employer will see their secondary class 1 national insurance contribution liability decrease , and around 940 , 000 employer will see it increase . around 820 , 000 employer will see no change . the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s economic and fiscal outlook also set out the expect macroeconomic impact of the change to employer national insurance contribution on employment , growth and inflation . the Government and the OBR have therefore already set out the impact of this policy change . the information provide be in line with other tax change , and the Government do not intend to publish further assessment . however , we will of course continue to monitor the impact of these policy in the usual way . I hope that right hon . and hon . member will understand why we be not support these amendment from the other place . the measure in the Bill will play a crucial role in fix the public finance and get public service back on their foot . the amendment require information that have already be provide , do not recognise other policy the Government have in place or , most seriously , seek to undermine the funding that the Bill will secure . I therefore respectfully propose that this House disagree with these amendment , and urge all hon . and right hon . member to support the Government on that disagreement . I call the shadow Minister . I rise on behalf of the official Opposition to support Lords amendment 1b , 5b , 8b and 21B . it feel like only last week that we be all here , but it be clear that our colleague in the other place feel as strongly as the opposition do about these amendment , as they have return they to we with a similar aim once again . lord amendment 1b , 5b and 8b seek to address two of the most serious consequence of the Bill that should concern and unite we all : that a rise in secondary class 1 national insurance could lead to a significant reduction in health and social care service , include our hospice , hit the most vulnerable in our society ; and could represent a complete hammer blow to the future aspiration and very survival of small business throughout the country . we all know that the Chancellor have an addiction to create fiscal black hole . first she use a fictional black hole , discredit by the Office for Budget Responsibility , as an excuse for her manifesto - break tax rise . this have lead to more black hole , only this time they be very real because they be be feel out there in the real economy . the Bill before we today will create black hole in the finance of hospice , GP practice , farm , fruit shop , butcher , bakery and business of all shape and size , but especially the very small . do the shadow Minister find it puzzle that the NHS will be exempt from these change , yet the many service on which people depend for their health — dental service , social care and so on — will be hit by this rise in national insurance contribution ? [ interruption . ] no service will remain unaffected , so people will not experience the healthcare that they require . it be rare that question come with a musical accompaniment , but the right hon . Gentleman ' s mobile ringtone make for a great effect . none the less , his point be the right one , which be that , whether it be intend or not , the rationale for the Bill be to " protect " — in the Government ' s word — public service . I could say " bolster " public service if I be be generous . the fact be that the Government be tax public service on which we all rely and he be absolutely right to emphasise that . lord amendment 1b and 5b seek to provide the power to exempt from both prong of attack of the Chancellor ' s job tax : care provider , NHS GP practice , NHS - commission dentist , nhs - commission pharmacist , and charitable provider of health and social care , such as hospice . and it be hospice specifically that I want to speak more about today . hospice be there at what , for many , will be the hard moment of their life . they provide vital physical and emotional support to individual who be come towards the final chapter of their life and for their love one . in short , hospice be there to look after we at our most difficult time . so , whether through funding , charitable donation or legislation , they deserve our utmost support to continue in this task . however , as I set out in Committee , this disastrous job tax will cost hospice up to £ 30 million next year alone . Hospice UK have repeatedly warn this government that the Bill risk a reduction in hospice service , which will lead only to even great pressure on NHS palliative care service . of the more than 200 hospice across our country , around 40 provide care for child . these be child who be live with terminal illness , many of whom have an all - too - limited time leave in this world . the organisation together for short life estimate that the Labour Government ' s decision to raise national insurance will add almost £ 5 million to the annual cost of provide care for seriously ill child and their family . let we be clear : this will mean that every child ' s hospice in England alone will need to spend an average of £ 140 , 000 more just to maintain service for the child in their care , after pay the additional tax that this Bill will impose . the Government can not seriously be demand that staff and volunteer at charitable child ' s hospice — the very people who already give their heart and soul to look after sick and die child — fundraise their share of £ 5 million next year alone just to keep their light on and their door open . at Treasury question on 21 January , the Chancellor state , in response to an excellent question from my Lincolnshire colleague , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , that the settlement for hospice announce by the Health and Social Care Secretary just before Christmas include money to specifically " compensate " hospice for the national insurance increase . that be not correct , and I be pleased that at least this Minister have try to acknowledge that point . when I visit staff at the much - love St Barnabas hospice in Lincoln , which provide excellent palliative care , they tell I that they be lose £ 300 , 000 a year . in the debate on assist dying , we all agree that we want more palliative care . I just can not understand the logic of what the Government be do . I make one last appeal to they not to load this extra cost on to hospice . my right hon . friend have raise that matter at every single opportunity that he have be afford , and he be right to stand up not just for St Barnabas , but for all hospice . however , I have to say that St Barnabas hold a particular place in the heart of people in Lincolnshire . I know , as a Lincolnshire Member of Parliament , that it have be around for 40 year , employ 300 staff and treat more than 12 , 000 people across our county every single year . the fact that it be go to be hit with a cost worth hundred of thousand of pound for no good reason be unacceptable . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Father of the House for raise that point so consistently . I hope that the Government will listen to he . the settlement announce do not compensate St Barnabas , or any hospice , for the damage that the Government be do , not least because we know that much of this money can not be spend on face down the additional running cost that this tax hike will bring . there be £ 100 million of capital funding , which have be set aside for building and equipment . although that funding be welcome , it will not fill the national insurance blackhole that the Chancellor have create for the hospice sector , and she should not suggest otherwise . today the Government have a chance to exempt hospice and other key area of our health and social care sector from this tax hike , by accept Lords amendment 1b and 5b . in addition , Lords amendment 8b seek to provide the power to exempt the small business — those with few than 25 full - time employee — from the propose cut to the threshold at which an employer be require to pay secondary class 1 national insurance . the Chancellor have speak a lot about growth , but growth have be consistently downgrade since she take office . something that we , as Conservatives , know , and that she , as a socialist , do not know , be that that be because economic growth can not come from the Floor of the House of Commons ; it come from the factory floor and bustle high street shop floor in each of our constituency . it come not from state - create quango such as GB Energy , but from individual who have an idea , stick it out , make it work and see it through . it come from people in this country who , by seek a well life through enterprise , create the job and service that make our country strong . those small business be be hammer , but not just by the national insurance hike . in less than a year they have already see : business rate relief cut from 75 % to 40 % ; aspiration penalise with change to business property relief ; and cripple new red tape through the Employment Rights Bill , add a staggering £ 5 billion in additional cost . this be a potent and damaging combination of cost that many fear will mark the end . lord amendment 8b give the Government another chance today to change their approach , to throw our small business a lifeline — a chance of survival . finally , while our small business require specific attention , I make it clear last week that , sadly , this Bill do not discriminate . it will hit business group of all type , across all sector , in all part of our country — from charity to caf é s , from pharmacy to child ' s nursery and special educational need and disability transport . we must understand the impact the Bill will have . that be why Lords amendment 21B require the Chancellor to carry out a review of the impact of the Bill on a range of sector of our economy within six month of its passing into law . I urge member to support the amendment . tomorrow the Chancellor will come to this House to launch her late attempt to reverse as much as possible of the damage of her Hallowe ' en Budget of horror . despite the hope and dream of business owner across the country , we can be sure that her emergency Budget will not include scrap this awful Bill . it be incumbent on all of we in this place to work to protect and support the most vulnerable in our society , and to take decision that drive growth , back the people out there who make it happen . they be the people who will be hit hard by the Bill . the Government must change course . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise to speak to Lords amendment 1b , 5b , 8b and 21b . even before the Budget , there be rumour that the Government be think of introduce a hike to national insurance contribution . we Liberal Democrats issue a stark warning to the Government . we challenge they at Prime Minister ' s question and in question to the Deputy Prime Minister , say that if they go ahead and introduce these change , social care provider up and down the land would be hit incredibly hard . the Government can not say that they be not warn . we warn they , even before they make the announcement . in the many long debate that we have have in the Chamber since the Budget , we have consistently make the case that health and care provider should be exempt from this change . the Government say that they want to make the national health service a neighbourhood health service ; we hear this just an hour ago from the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . they also say that they want to take service out of hospital and on to the high street , but this tax hammer the very provider of the neighbourhood community service on which the NHS rely . it be gps , dentist , pharmacist , hospice and care provider who hold up our community care , and prop up our NHS , so that it do not fall over . Government Ministers have say on many occasion that they have increase funding to social care , but the additional funding announce in the Budget be dwarf by the rise in national insurance contribution . as other member have highlight , the Government have say that they have give more funding to hospice , but that funding be for capital project . there be no point have another hospice building or hospice bed if there be no staff to look after the people lie in they . we know that we have to fix the front door to the NHS — our gps and dentist — but we have to fix the back door to our NHS too , which be social care . on hospice , there be nowhere else for the people in they to go . People look for support from hospice so that they can die in dignity , with independence , in a setting of their choice , surround by their love one — not in the sterile environment of a hospital ward or , bad , a busy corridor or ambulance park outside . we need our gps , dentist , hospice , pharmacist and care provider to survive and thrive if we be to end the crisis in our NHS . the Lords in their wisdom have not send back an amendment that simply ask for an exemption . they have put in a very clever tweak that ask that the Government to adopt a Henry VIII power . that be not something the liberal Democrats would normally support , but on this occasion it would give Ministers the power to choose if and when they want to exempt health and care provider from the rise . that way , when we get this enormous growth boom in our economy — when we see the success that we all hope to see — a Minister could choose to exempt health and care provider and give they the cash injection that they need . I urge the Government to support this measure . amendment 8b provide a power to exempt small business from the change . small business be the engine of our economy and of growth . they be the very organisation that prop up our high street . they be the glue that hold our community together . the Government have raise the employment allowance for microbusinesse , but they have not put other provision in place to support small business . while our small business can be the engine of growth , they be scream out about the number of obligation be put on they , with the nic change , business rate bill go up and the new obligation under the Employment Rights Bill . it be all happen at once , and they say that they be overwhelmed . I support amendment 8b , which would give the Government the power to exempt small business . I be also in favour of Lords amendment 21B on an impact assessment . as Ministers remind we , there be a tax and spend announcement come , but look at the impact of the provision , this be less about tax and spend and more about the overwhelming impact on small business , which be really struggle right now . many of they still have covid loan , and many be struggle with access to finance . many owner be remortgage their home to prop up a new business . this change have come out of the blue . small business have not be able to plan ahead for it , and many of they be fearful about what will happen . I fear that if the measure go ahead , in a matter of day , we will start to see shop front board up on high street up and down the land . I be go to call Sir Roger Gale , but he be no long bob — ah , I call he now . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I naively assume that , have already be call twice today , I have to take my place in the pecking order . I want to come back briefly to hospice . this be a very serious issue , and I do not think that the Minister or the Government understand the deleterious effect of the change on care for some of the sick people in the land , both in adult hospice and child ' s hospice . I have listen very carefully — twice now — to the Minister ' s response about give this and give that , but they be give with one hand and take away more with the other . the net result will be a reduction in staff . this be a straightforward tax on job . without dedicated , caring staff , who do job that frankly most of we would not begin to know how to do , the health service will not function . there be child live in and be service by Demelza House , Shooting Star and all the other child ' s hospice . the Pilgrims Hospices in Thanet and Canterbury will not be able to afford to recruit and or pay the staff that they need . hospice care be an integral part of the health service . the point be make by my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and other that hospice care be part of the health service and should be treat as part of the NHS . [ interruption . ] my right hon . friend ask from a sedentary position , " where be all the Labour member ? " the answer be that they will be in the Lobby , vote against these measure , but they be not here listen to the debate . it sadden I to have to say it , but in this instance , their absence speak volume . quite simply , they do not care . the Lords amendment seek to address a clear , present and insurmountable financial challenge for significant element of health and social care delivery in all our community . the Government say , in the most spurious and disingenuous way , as though they do not understand their role in the health service , that social care provider , GPs , dentist and pharmacy be contractor . how they be deal with by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be irrelevant . it be the role that they fulfil in our society and in the delivery of health and social care service that be at stake . these be not contractor that can go and develop new market somewhere else . their market be exclusively within the NHS and health and social care up and down these island . many properly commercial business will not manage to pivot their way out of this attack from Labour — and GP practice , pharmacy , care provider , nursery and hospice certainly will not . I want to mention hospice . when Macmillan Cancer Support speak , no matter what colour our rosette , we should listen . it have highlight clearly what the measure mean for end - of - life care . there have be 15 year of chaos in the United Kingdom , most of it economic ; there have be the lost decade of Brexit , and its catastrophic effect on the UK ' s economy and the material welfare of people up and down these island . I ask : who can we blame ? who be culpable ? who have their fingerprint all over it ? not terminally ill child in hospice , who will , as a result of the Bill , suffer as a result of the debilitate effect on the care with which they be provide . the Minister and his government could do a simple thing : give hospice a derogation from the grasp hand of the Bill , and protect child in the bad imaginable circumstance . from the outset , the Government ' s fiscal misadventure have be meet with opprobrium from all manner of section of the economy and society , but they have hold firm . I pay tribute to the Minister ; he front up here every time with a smile , and do his good to defend what he have to . that be his job , and I do not judge he for that , but the bottom line be that the Government have yield , not to child in hospital , or to people try to deliver social care and free up hospital bed by prevent delay discharge , but to the banker by restore their bonus , and to the non - dom who want all the benefit of live in this country but do not want to pay for it . that speak volume about what a Labour Government in this day and age be all about . I hope that I can have this intervention without a musical interlude . I apologise to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for have my phone switch on . will the hon . member accept that not only be service likely to be affect , as he have outline , but the Government ' s aim of raise additional revenue will be affect as well ? as he point out , they have give in to the banker and non - dom because of the fear of lose revenue . anecdotally , we know that many business , whether those support the national health service or other small business , will cut back on the number of staff that they employ because they can not afford they , and that will lead to a loss of national insurance and tax contribution . it could be an own goal for the government if they cause pain to business but do not get any revenue from it . I agree entirely . this be a £ 24 billion fiscal drag that be intend to create growth . work that one out if you can , because it be beyond my ken . the Government will not make derogation for key element of health and social care , because the benefit of the £ 24 billion drag on the economy that the right hon . Gentleman point out be , after compensation , already down £ 10 billion . if they compensate the people who they definitely should , such as GPs , pharmacy , care provider and hospice , that would take it down to somewhere around £ 7 billion or £ 8 billion . what type of Chancellor and Treasury orthodoxy say , " we place a £ 24 billion burden on the economy in exchange for an £ 8 billion return for the Treasury " ? it be absolutely catastrophic . it be misadventure writ large , and it have Labour as its logo . the hon . Member highlight the comment by the Office for Budget Responsibility , which say that the £ 24 billion be , in fact , only £ 10 billion once behaviour change be account for . if the Government be to agree to the exemption that we seek , the figure could be only £ 8 billion . do he agree that there be much fairer way of raise that revenue , such as by put a digital service tax on the big online medium giant and gaming company ? the hon . member raise two excellent example of what could be do to raise the funding that the Government need in a just way . let we not forget that Labour know fine what it be walk into when it win the election . we tell it , as do the Liberal Democrats and the medium — the Tories be a bit quiet on the issue , right enough — that there would be an £ 18 billion black hole if it stick to Tory tax and spending policy . this be on Labour . the hon . Member mention two example of excellent and just way to raise funding . similarly , the Government could apply scottish income tax threshold to the whole of the UK , give most people a pay rise and raise £ 16 billion into the bargain . they could raise £ 40 billion from a 1 % wealth tax on asset over £ 10 million . there be a range of other measure that they could take , such as raise £ 30 billion by rejoin the single market — not very many people in here talk about that . the Government persist in their tendentious reference to additional funding , all of which be capital and none of which can soften the blow of the measure contain in the Bill . they do not want to support , in particular , Lords amendment 21B , because they would rather continue to cloak the effect that the Bill will have on care service and contractor element of the national health service up and down these island , and the effect that it will have on the real economy , which labour be a stranger to . I be just flummox by the Government ' s approach to the Bill . clause 1 raise employer national insurance from 13 . 8 % to 15 % . almost more damagingly , clause 2 reduce the threshold at which they start pay it from £ 9 , 100 to just £ 5 , 000 . the Government know how damaging this measure be for healthcare . we can see that because they have take action to exempt the NHS from it . that will cost billion of pound , because healthcare provider can not just diversify as other section of the economy might be able to . they can not raise price . a general practitioner ' s customer be the state , and price be fix by the Treasury . as a result , the Government know exactly what the impact of this proposal will be on hospice . we have already hear that without an exemption , they will face an additional £ 30 million of cost every year as a result of these change . when the Bill be first announce , I assume that there have be an oversight by the Treasury and that it would be address as the Bill progress . but both last week and this week , the Lords have move to fix what be originally consider to be perhaps an oversight . today ' s decision to seek to reverse Lords amendment 1b and 5B in particular demonstrate beyond doubt that it be not an oversight but a deliberate decision take by Labour to penalise hospice for the care of the dying , and to do what with that money ? we may be in the obscene position in a few week ' time of funding for state - assist dying be raise by tax palliative care . this be absolute madness . if member want any other reason why they should not support the Government , that be an overwhelming one . I make one last reference to the emptiness of the Government Benches . there be now two Labour Members sit there who be not require to be — [ interruption . ] I take it back , there be only one . that indicate to I that Labour Members do not want to be associate with the Bill . they will scurry through the Lobby later , but they be not brave enough to stand up and defend the decision of their government . you do not need any convincing of this , Madam Deputy Speaker , but be you to , the Lords amendment demonstrate why we need a House of Lords . they be the one stand up and deliver the amendment that this Government be try to wriggle out of this afternoon . amendment 1B and 5B , which the Government be try to derogate from , be essential for our care service . the financial strain that the Government ' s national insurance contribution will put on the care sector be astronomical — some prediction be of around £ 2 . 4 billion on social care alone . ultimately , that will lead to reduction in service and , unfortunately , closure , especially in the hospice sector . the Minister have repeat what he and other Ministers have say on many occasion : they be give a certain amount of money to the hospice sector , but as Opposition colleague have state , that be capital spending . what they desperately need be revenue spending to cover the cost of the rise in national insurance contribution . be the hon . Gentleman concern that the Government patently do not understand whole - system cost , which be a key element of fiscal policy ? when care provider — whether hospice , in - home care provider or social provider — fall over as a result of these measure , as they will , those cost will get pick up by the rest of the system , and that will have a net cost to the Treasury . the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point , which have be make by Opposition Members on numerous occasion . it do not surprise I that Labour member do not understand the economy . I do hope that they would understand the care sector , which have be tell they time and again that this national insurance increase will hit it disproportionately and cause it to reduce and , indeed , close service . I think of Phyllis Tuckwell hospice in the centre of Farnham in my constituency , which be fortunately go through a multimillion pound rebuild as we speak , but when it reopen , it will be hit by these national insurance contribution and will have to make decision about what service it can provide to my constituency and the surround area of Surrey and northern Hampshire . likewise , on Friday I will see Shooting Star child ' s hospice , which be a fabulous child ' s hospice that I have visit on a number of occasion . what be gall to I be that I see photograph of Labour Members turn up to Shooting Star and similar hospice , put their arm around people and say what a wonderful job they be do , but later today they will walk through the Division Lobby to take money away from they . what hypocrisy . we already know that there be workforce challenge in the care sector , and especially in the hospice sector , so why on earth be the Government target those sector for raise national insurance contribution ? as Opposition Members have mention , this be not an abstract cost that will hit some sort of nebulous business ; this be a cost that will hit patient and , in the hospice sector , those who be die , because care will be take from they . it be a tax on community care . it be a tax on die . the Labour Government should be ashamed that they be bring this in . we have rightly concentrate a great deal on child ' s hospice , and I still hope that at the 11th hour the Government , as a socialist government , may have some compassion and give some ground . but the other area , which we have not touch on enough , be the independent care provider who be provide service in people ' s home . they will not be able to employ the people that they need — they can not do so now — even if they can get they . that inevitably mean that those care for will end up in hospital , at still great cost to the health service . my right hon . friend make an excellent point , echo one make by the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) . that be correct : there will inevitably be a net cost to the Exchequer because of this policy . he be right that home care have not be touch on but will be affect . home care company in my constituency will not be able to expand their staff , which be vital to meet people ' s need . pharmacy , which we have not touch on a lot , be in the same position . a few week back , I visit Badgerswood pharmacy in Headley in my constituency , and I be tell that the measure will hit it hard and cause a real problem in service delivery for my constituent . this measure will not only have a massive effect on those business — GPs , pharmacy , the hospice sector and the home care sector — on the economy , because there will be a net cost , and on patient , who will not receive the service in the wide NHS family that they deserve , but it run entirely contrary to the Government ' s state policy of want to bring healthcare close to home and close to the community . although they be exempt acute hospital care , which take place away from the community , they be tax the bit that they say they want to expand . it be totally illogical , even on the Government ' s own policy . I hope that the Government have an 11th hour change of heart , either today or at the emergency Budget tomorrow , because it be vital that we support these sector . we see with Lords amendment 21B that the proof of the pudding be in the eating , as it be . if the Government be so convinced that their policy be the right , just , fair and proper one , they would allow a review to go ahead so that we could see its impact . the fact that Government Members will be walk through the Division Lobby to hide this policy from the british people tell we all that we need to know : they know that this policy do not stand up to scrutiny , and they be run from it . with the leave of the House , I will respond briefly to some of the comment make by Opposition Members . although I feel that the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , will not support we on the Bill , I none the less recognise that she seem to support the extra funding that we put into public service in term of GPs , dentist , hospice commission by the NHS and so on . although she will not agree with the difficult decision that we have take to raise that funding , I get the impression that she support our spending on those public service . I turn to the official Opposition . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , claim that very small business will feel the great impact from the change in the Bill . I can only conclude , therefore , that he have not read the Bill , because he would have see that we be double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , with the result that the very small business will not pay any national insurance contribution at all when they be employ up to four people earn the national living wage . more widely , the shadow Minister and many of his Opposition colleague refuse to take any responsibility whatever for the state of the public finance or the public service after 14 year of the conservative party be in control . they also resist the opportunity to acknowledge that the approach we be take in government to compensate the public sector for change in employer national insurance contribution be the same one that the previous Government take with the health and social care levy . that come up time and again , and even when the shadow Minister be intervene on , he miss the opportunity to acknowledge that our approach be the same one that he and his colleague take in government . the amendment from the other place would require information that have already be provide . either they do not recognise other policy that the Government have in place , or — most seriously — they would undermine the funding that the Bill will secure . let I be clear : to support the amendment that create exemption be also to support high borrowing , low spending or other tax rise . I therefore ask the House to support the Government ' s position by disagree to Lords amendment 1b , 5b , 8b and 21B . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1b . Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Christian Wakeford Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Katie Lam Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 312 , Noes 190 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 1b disagree to . one hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords message , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 19 March ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83 g ) . after clause 2 - Exemptions from the change make by section 2 : NHS and social care Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 5b . — ( James Murray . ) Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Christian Wakeford Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Katie Lam Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 311 , Noes 192 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 5b disagree to . clause 2 - secondary threshold for secondary Class 1 contribution Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 8b . — ( James Murray . ) Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Christian Wakeford Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Katie Lam Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 313 , Noes 194 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 8b disagree to . after clause 3 Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 21B . — ( James Murray . ) Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Katie Lam the House divide : Ayes 314 , Noes 196 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 21b disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 1b , 5b , 8b and 21b ; that James Murray , Christian Wakeford , Alistair Strathern , Chris Vince , Joe Morris , Gareth Davies and will Forster be member of the Committee ; that James Murray be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill ( change to Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers ) Bill ) ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill ( change to Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers ) Bill ) for the purpose of supplement the order of 25 November 2024 ( Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill ( Programme ) ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill ( change to Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers ) Bill ) consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 1 to 12 , and 14 to 17 . if any of those Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . clause 3 - application of multiplier I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendment 2 to 19 , and Government motion to disagree . first , I be grateful to member of both the Commons and the Lords who have so diligently scrutinise the Bill throughout its passage . before I address the amendment table by the Lords , allow I to remind the House of why we introduce the Bill in the first place . this Government have commit to transform the business rate system , and the Bill be a first step on that important journey . we want to achieve a sustainable system that be fit for the current economic landscape , and where business growth be support and ratepayer pay their fair share . I thank the noble Lord Khan of Burnley for take the Bill through the other place and for be so thorough in his approach . I also thank officer of the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and my private office for all their work on the Bill . the Government oppose all the amendment before we today and I will provide further explanation as to why . at the Budget , the Government explain that we want to introduce new low multiplier for qualify retail , hospitality and leisure property from April 2026 to address the uncertainty of the temporary , stopgap support provide by the annual RHL relief . business rate represent a stable source of revenue for local government , mean that this permanent tax cut must be sustainably fund . that be why the Government also announce our intention to introduce a high multipli for all property with a rateable value at or above £ 500 , 000 . this Bill make provision to enable the introduction of those new multiplier , so this be the first step towards deliver on the Government ' s manifesto commitment to transform the business rate system to one that be sustainable , protect the high street and be fit for the 21st century . on a point of detail , the Minister say the Bill be a " first step " , so will there be further reform , follow these reform , to the rest of the business rate system to meet his manifesto commitment to replace the current business rate system completely ? I be not go to pre - empt any further decision on this , other than to say that this represent an important and significant step forward . as a constituency MP , he , like I , will have hear from many small business — retailer , hospitality provider or leisure provider — who appreciate the support during covid , but be very clear that there be a cliff edge and that that support be come to an end . the previous Government do not provide any certainty about what follow , so the Bill end that uncertainty and hardwire in a permanent relief system to ensure those important business that be the foundation of our community and our economy be support through the tax system . the Minister have already say , as he have in previous speech , that this be a " first step " , but now he say it be a " permanent " measure . I agree with he that business want certainty , so it be important that business understand : be this now a permanent position that will not be change , or a first step ? the answer be that it be both , as I will go on to explain in more detail . it be an important first step , and the relief that be provide , fund through the high rate property , will be hard - baked into the system , notwithstanding any future support that may well follow , which we be not pre - empte today . lord amendment 1 , 6 , 7 and 12 would remove qualifying healthcare hereditament from the high multipli , and Lords amendment 2 , 5 , 8 and 11 would do the same in relate to anchor store . consider the challenging fiscal environment , it be vital that this permanent tax cut be fund sustainably . the Government have be clear that they will do that by apply the high multipli to all property with a rateable value at or above £ 500 , 000 . that account for less than 1 % of all property and be the fair approach . the impact on healthcare property be limited . as set out in the other place , of the 16 , 780 property at or above the £ 500 , 000 threshold base on the current rating list and round to 10 , only 350 be in the health sub - sector . of those , 290 be nhs hospital and only 30 be doctor ' surgery or health centre . at the autumn Budget , the Chancellor fix the spending envelope for phase 2 of the spending review . the Government be consider the full range of departmental priority and pressure as part of the spending review , and that include any impact of the high multipli on public sector property , such as school and hospital . I urge the House to disagree with those amendment . we recognise the importance of anchor store , and we be do a great deal to support the high street in this Bill and elsewhere . while the large anchor store may be catch by the high multipli , they be often part of large retail chain that will have a number of property with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 . those business will , therefore , benefit overall from the low multiplier . I appreciate the point that the Minister be make . in Fareham and Waterlooville , we have some fantastic pub , include the Golden Lion in Fareham , the chairmaker in Denmead and the Heroes in Waterlooville . many pub be hub of our community and make a valid contribution to the local economy , but they have be trade under challenge circumstance and have be ask for a cut in business rate . what will be the effect of the Minister ' s position today ? the Bill provide a cash saving for exactly the type of business that the right hon . member talk about . we all understand the importance of pub to our town , village and estate , not just as business in the economy but as place for the community to convene , to meet and to build relationship and network . that be exactly why the measure be be bring in , and in a permanent way , because pub need certainty . they know the rise cost of supply , carbon dioxide and energy have put significant pressure on pub operation , and these measure provide long - term stability that bake in the support the Government can offer into the system . many pub will be free house and they will be independent . however , a number of pub will be part of a brewery chain with manager in place . the measure take away the cash cap of £ 110 , 000 per business , allow , for the first time , multiple operator to benefit . that will benefit pub chain , as well as high street store , such as Home Bargains , boot and other retailer . those business draw in footfall , which then support independent retailer as well . the proposal be rounded and provide long - term stability that be properly fund in a responsible way . on that basis , the Government oppose the Lords amendment as lay out . Lord ' s amendment 3 , 4 , 9 and 10 be concern with bring manufacturing property into scope of the low multipli . if we widen the scope of the low multiplier in that way , it will dilute the support available to RHL property or jeopardise the ability of the Government to sustainably fund the low multiplier . we need to be clear that this be not a wide - range offer , but target deliberately at support our community , high street and town centre . that be why the Bill focus on RHL support . the Government be support the manufacture sector through other mean . for those reason , I urge the House to oppose the amendment . Lord ' s amendment 13 and 16 require the Government to undertake a review of how the provision to introduce new multiplier may affect business whose rateable value be close to the £ 500 , 000 threshold for the high multipli . the review would need to be put before Parliament three month prior to 1 April 2026 in order for clause 1 to 4 of this Bill to come into effect . these amendment probe around the way the multiplier in the business rate system currently operate . those hereditament on the standard multipli , or in the future on the high multiplier , pay rate on that multiplier calculate on all of their rateable value , and not just the rateable value above the threshold . that , of course , generate cliff edge in the rate bill for hereditament as they move between threshold , and we acknowledge the presence of those cliff edge — it be a matter of fact . at the autumn Budget , the Treasury launch a discussion with business on the " Transforming Business Rates " paper . this specifically highlight these cliff edge in the system and consider whether they may act as a disincentive to expand , so I can assure the House that we be already look at the precise issue identify in the amendment . reform be be take forward through the transforming business rate work and will be phase in over the course of the Parliament . therefore , we believe Lords amendment 13 and 16 be unnecessary . Lords amendment 14 would require the Government to commence a review that examine the merit of create , within three month of Royal Assent , a separate use class and associate multiplier within the non - domestic rating for retail service provide by fulfilment warehouse in England that do not have a material presence on high street . the noble Lord Thurlow , who put forward the amendment , make it clear that this use class would apply only to business rate . as he explain in the other place , the key task be to identify those warehouse , as distinct from warehouse use by , say , high street retailer — warehouse that may otherwise look the same . the Lords amendment would bring together the Government and professional body work on business rate to identify those warehouse . we be already explore that objective through an exist project . the digitalising business rate project will allow we to match property - level datum with business - level datum from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to improve the way in which we target business rate , and to identify property and business in the way that the Lords amendment envisage . I do not intend to intervene , but I be look through the amendment , and I see that a lot of they focus on exemption from the business rate . do the Minister agree that the way to look at support business in , for example , the manufacturing industry be through other mean , not through change the business rate ? we welcome scrutiny through amendment and the insight that the other place can provide , just as we welcome scrutiny in the evidence session and Committee sitting ; it add value . we need to be honest : it be natural for member to want to widen the scope of legislation during its passage , and to include more . in Government , we have to deal with the art of the possible , which mean balance a number of compete interest , not least the impact on taxpayer in the round . the Bill be target at those who need it the most — community and local economy — and it be fully fund to ensure that it be sustainable . we can not draw the legislation so wide that it do not stand the test of time and do not cover its own cost . that would not be responsible , and certainly would not be sustainable . Lords amendment 14 would require the Government to implement the recommendation of the review . give that we do not know what those recommendation would be , I trust the House will understand that we can not accept an amendment to accept they blindly in advance . finally , Lords amendment 15 and consequential Lords amendment 17 to 19 would strike from the Bill the clause that remove charitable rate relief from private school that be charity . we be unable to accept these Lords amendment . this Government make a manifesto commitment to raise school standard for every child , break down barrier to opportunity and ensure that every child have the good start in life , no matter where they come from or their financial background . achieve our ambition involve meet our commitment to remove the vat and business rate charitable relief tax break for private school ; the approach and design of this policy have be carefully consider in the light of that . the measure be necessary in order to raise the revenue to deliver on the Government ' s commitment to education and young people , and to improve the state sector , where — let we be clear — 90 % of child be educate . this Government be prepared to take the tough but necessary decision to deliver on those bold commitment , so , as with all the other amendment bring here from the other place , I can not accept these Lords amendment . I hope that the rest of the House follow suit . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for his explanation of the Lords amendment . we shall not agree , and I will explain why . I thank the Lords for their careful consideration of the Bill ; in particular , I thank the noble Lord Jamieson and the noble Baroness Scott for their scrutiny and amendment . the legislation come at a critical time for business . the partial withdrawal of retail hospitality and leisure relief — a policy choice by this government — be hit business hard . the average pub be more than £ 5 , 000 bad off as a result of the Minister ' s choice . that , together with the Government ' s trash - talk of the economy , the £ 25 billion annual tax rise for business by mean of the rise in employer ' national insurance , and the prospect of the job - destroy Employment Rights Bill , have lead directly to a massive reduction in business confidence . accord to the Institute of Directors , business confidence , which stand at a high of plus 5 in July last year , have collapse to a covid - level low of minus 65 . my hon . friend be make a very good speech . what be his advice to the many business in Fareham and Waterlooville who have tell I — I have lose count of they — that they do not know whether they will survive the next few year , particularly because of the rise in national insurance contribution from employer , the Employment Rights Bill and the anti - business rhetoric ? hire be down , price be up and many business in Fareham and Waterlooville be begin to wonder whether it be all worth it . my right hon . and learn Friend make a very good point . these be difficult time . as she know , I be in business for 30 year , and we go through some difficult time . many people think that business be easy , but it be not , particularly at time like this , when confidence , include consumer confidence , have go so low . it mean that people be not come through the door . my advice to business be to batten down the hatch and get through this where they can , but inevitably the consequence of these choice will be less employment , low salary increase and high price in shop , public house and other place . that be the consequence of the choice that this Government have make . the real - world effect of this historic drop in confidence be a 20 - year high in business closure . over 220 , 000 business close their door in the last three month of 2024 . when consider the Lords amendment , it be important to remember that the Labour party promise to abolish business rate — another broken promise . the Minister , for whom I have a great deal of time , talk about the art of the possible ; what he be say be that a promise that he and his colleague make to the electorate in the run - up to the election have be break . in its manifesto , Labour promise to " replace the business rate system , so we can raise the same revenue but in a fair way . this new system will level the play field between the high street and online giant " . that be not what the Bill do , so that be also a broken promise . the reason I challenge the Minister a couple of time during his remark be that I do not understand how the Bill can be both a first step and a permanent change . that make no sense , and if I be one of the business people for whose rude health we be all responsible , I would like to know exactly what the Government have plan beyond these change . that be not clear . I turn first to Lords amendment 14 , which would require the Secretary of State to review " the merit of a separate Use Class and associate multiplier for retail service provide by fulfilment warehouse that do not have a material presence on local high street " — in other word , online giant . it be worth note that the rate regime propose by this Bill will mean that only around 10 % of business pay the high rate will be the warehouse of online giant . in reality , shop , restaurant , caf é s , pub , cinema , music venue , gym and hotel will all see their business rate rise as a result of the high multipli . we would support a rate regime that would genuinely level the play field between online retailer and the high street , but this Bill do not deliver that . we therefore support amendment 14 ' s requirement that the Secretary of State conduct a review on introduce a high multipli for fulfilment warehouse . such a multipli would mean that important anchor store for high street would not be punish . that bring I to Lords amendment 1 , 5 , 8 and 11 . we all know from our constituency how important anchor store , such as supermarket and department store , be for attract footfall and support local economy . when people come into the town centre to use an anchor store , they might stop for lunch in a local caf é or pop into an independent business . key anchor store in the Secretary of State ' s constituency will be hit by this Bill : Sainsbury ' s in Ashton - under - Lyne have a rateable value of £ 1 . 24 million , while Marks and Spencer next door have a rateable value of £ 770 , 000 . these decision have real - world effect on company that be not online giant . we have see the impact on our community when anchor store leave a town . for many anchor store , be drag into the high multipli by this Bill could be the straw that break the camel ' s back ; those shop have already be hit by the job tax , and will be tie up with even more red tape through the Employment Rights Bill . in fact , the British Retail Consortium have warn the Government that " the sheer scale of new cost and the speed with which they occur create a cumulative burden that will make job loss inevitable , and high price a certainty . " that contrast with my party ' s proud record of support business , include small business , on the high street by cut business rate , as well as provide billion of pound of support throughout the pandemic . while we be talk about high street business , can I once again push the Minister on a very important point — the retention of small business rate relief ? many business ’ livelihood depend on that relief , so will he say at the Dispatch Box that it will be continue ? I have not have clarity , and clearly I will not get clarity today . be that relief also on the chop block , maybe at the Chancellor ' s emergency Budget tomorrow ? let we see what that bring ; we may get clear answer then . tomorrow ' s last - gasp attempt to go for growth come after GDP fall by 0 . 1 % in January . that be largely attribute to a 1 . 1 % fall in manufacture output . that bring I briefly to Lords amendment 3 , 4 , 9 and 10 . they would make manufacturing hereditament eligible for the low multiplier when it come to local rating list . that come at a particularly important time for our manufacturing sector , which be a crucial part of our economy , whether we be talk about automotive manufacturing , aerospace manufacturing or precision engineering . as we boost capital defence expenditure , it be important that we have a strong and resilient manufacturing base that can supply our brave armed force . I urge the Government to reflect carefully on the impact of the new rate system on manufacturing , and we will listen carefully to the Minister ' s response on this issue . turn to Lords amendment 1 , 6 , 7 and 12 , give that the Government be raise taxis to invest in the NHS , it seem perverse for they to levy high business rate on the hospital and GP practice that provide the service that so many of our constituent rely on . it be just week since the Government shamefully vote to impose a job tax on hospice , pharmacy and GP practice — another double whammy . labour be give with one hand and take with the other . before we get to the real sting in the tail of this Bill , I will speak briefly to Lords amendment 13 and 16 . like member of the other House , we have concern about the cliff edge that the Bill will create in the business rate system , which the Minister refer to . a business cross the £ 500 , 000 threshold , even by £ 1 , could see a near 20 % increase in rate payable . for instance , a business with a hereditament of £ 495 , 000 invest in their property — just enough to push they over the threshold — would potentially see an increase in rate from around £ 175 , 000 to £ 325 , 000 as a result of this Bill . the legislation will stifle investment and growth even far . finally , Labour ' s education tax — the spiteful and ideologically drive decision to remove the charitable rate relief from private school that be charity — sit alongside the utterly wrong - head policy of charge vat on private school fee . regardless of people ' s view on private school , it be the view of the opposition that we should never tax education . we be already see the gate of independent school be lock indefinitely . that push more child into state education , increase class size and put more pressure on the public purse , and on council try to find placement for student with education , health and care plan . lord amendment 17 would retain rate relief for private school in England , spare they part of a cumulative burden that would otherwise send many of they beyond the brink . it be not just education that be affect . since the introduction of this Bill , we have learn that the Government will also levy business rate on nursery school and sport facility use by the general public if they be on the site of a private school . that regressive decision will jack up the cost of swimming lesson , and the cost for Sunday league club and cadet unit . during our time in government , England become one of the top - perform country for education in the western world . that be a record that this Government seem determined to trash . year down the line , Government Members will regret have vote for this Bill as they walk down the high street , pass board - up shop , school gate lock shut and a local that call last order for the final time year ago . I urge the Government to consider and agree to the amendment from the Lords to safeguard business , school and community across the country from more business - damage and job - destroy tax hike . the Bill be necessary to support our high street . it strike a fair balance between small business and large , and I be pleased to have contribute during most stage of its progress . I rise to address some of the amendment put forward by the other place , which would reduce the effectiveness of the Bill . amendment 2 , 5 , 8 and 11 seek to exempt anchor store from the high multiplier , thus reduce the revenue raise by the Bill overall . by reduce that revenue , the amendment reduce the support available to small retail , hospitality and leisure business , when provide that support be the entire purpose of this legislation . I also fear that the definition of an anchor store could create problem for our high street and town centre . during the debate in the other place it be say that the Treasury could decide what constitute an anchor store , but it be also admit that it would be a difficult term to define . it be not uncommon , and not untrue , to say that several shop in a high street can indeed lay claim to that title , and I foresee difficulty in this regard if the amendment be pass . it be also true that anchor store be often the large store in town , usually part of a big chain , supermarket be an obvious example . the effect of this amendment would be to exempt those large business from the high multipli , again reduce the support available to small business . the entire purpose of the Bill be to support our small retail , leisure and hospitality business , pay for by that high multipli on large business . unlike the opposition , we like to ensure that our number add up . what would the hon . Gentleman say to business that be try to make their number add up ? in its manifesto and previously , the promise — the commitment — of the Labour party be to level the play field between online giant and small business , but , as the hon . Gentleman can see , that be not what be happen here . many different premise , include manufacturer and large brick - and - mortar retailer , be be hit by these increase . what would the hon . Gentleman say to those business , give that while there be currently no sign of any increase in their rate , that be exactly what they will see as a result of the Bill ? the Bill be design specifically to revive our high street . the hon . Gentleman will remember , because his party be in government at the time , that our high street be struggle and suffocate , and it be incumbent on this new Government to revive they . that be why it be so important for we to pass the Bill today . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman mention manufacturing , and his hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) chirp from a sedentary position — [ interruption . ] I mean " chunter " . I think it important to recognise that the Government be support manufacture too . there be other mechanism for do that , but the Bill we be pursue today , and pass today , be all about support our high street , and I be very proud to support it . Queen Street be in Morley , in the centre of my constituency . you be welcome to visit it any time , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be a lot on offer , almost of all of which come directly from small business . the Lords amendment to which I have refer do not prioritise they ; nor do they prioritise the small parade of shop in Farnley , Drighlington , Gildersome and Wortley , and they do nothing for the shop and business in Ardsley , Tingley , Robin Hood and Lofthouse . that be why I can not support they . I back the business in Morley high street , along with all the other small business that I represent . lord amendment 15 , 17 , 18 and 19 would , in effect , reintroduce the tax break for private school . we have have this argument about private school at the general election , in the House , in Bill Committees and again today , but as a former math teacher at a state school in Leeds , I be more than happy to cover old ground to reinforce my own argument . the propose amendment seek to remove an integral part of the Bill that generate the revenue that we need to support our plan in government . I will make no apology for support the 94 % of child who attend state school . we all — and I include everyone in the House — want child to have the good opportunity in life , with the high - quality teaching and school to match . it should be a basic function of the state to provide well - fund , excellent state school place for all student , whether their parent choose to take advantage of that or not . on the Labour Benches , as we have prove over recent month , we be prepared to take the action necessary to ensure that all child can access through the state the education they deserve . the £ 70 million raise by the measure in the Bill , alongside the other revenue - raise measure we have take in the Budget , will result and do result in a real - term increase in per pupil funding for the 94 % who attend our state school . I be very proud to support that . we will never make any apology for properly fund state school by end the tax break that be previously enjoy by private institution . that be why I will not be vote for the amendment . to conclude , I be pleased to support the Bill in its current , unamended form . I will support our high street . it will give confidence to small business and it will give state school the funding they desperately need . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I , too , begin by put on record my thank to the noble Lords in the other place for all their work on the Bill , in particular those on the liberal Democrat Benches : Baroness Pinnock , Lord Shipley and Lord Fox . business rate reform be long overdue and , while we welcome the proposal to permanently reduce business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure , in the meantime many business across my constituency , and indeed the country , be reel as they see the impact of the reduction in rate relief in bill land on their doormat . I have hear from a number of business just in the past few day . I be really concerned about pub , restaurant and caf é s in my constituency who be wonder how , with the national insurance rise and the reduction in rate relief , they will continue . the liberal Democrats would like to see a fundamental overhaul of the business rate system , not just the stick - plaster solution propose in the Bill that tinker around the edge . as I say , low business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure be a step in the right direction , but there be countless small business outside those sector that need their tax burden reduce too , for example manufacturing business . we table amendment on Report to improve the Bill and to ensure it give consideration to whether there should be provision for manufacturing facility , which can be big and build on expensive land but sometimes produce relatively low - value good . lord amendment 4 seek to do the same , whereby manufacturing premise would also pay new low business rate under the Bill . without that , light engineering and printer , among other business in our town centre ' mixed economy , could be price out . a recent report by Barclays bank conclude that the word " make in Britain " be worth an additional £ 3 . 5 billion to UK exporter , so it be important that something be do to support the manufacturing sector . we have learn the hard way in recent year , with the pandemic and war , that we need to be much more self - sufficient as a country , yet there have be a big drop in confidence in the sector since autumn , with an increase in manufacturer ’ cost and order in general report to be small in size . that come on top of the additional Brexit red tape that those business have to contend with to export . therefore , we support retain this amendment in the Bill . as I have say , we want fundamental reform of business rate so we can boost small business and our high street . we table an amendment on Report to require a review of the impact of the Bill on business , high street and economic growth , so we support retain Lords amendment 13 , which would require the Secretary of State to review the impact of the Bill on business whose rateable value be close to £ 500 , 000 and so will be catch by the new high business rate . turn to our NHS , yet again we see the Government give with one hand and take with the other . as with national insurance contribution , so with the business rate change : there be unintended but significant consequence for our health service . lord amendment 1 seek to exclude hospital and other healthcare setting from pay new high business rate for property with a rateable of £ 500 , 000 or more . without the amendment , 290 local hospital will be catch by the rate , an unacceptable new burden when the NHS be already struggle . as my noble friend Baroness Pinnock point out in the other place , without the amendment the like of Great Ormond Street hospital for child will have an additional burden of £ 600 , 000 per year on business rate alone , the John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford have a potential business rate increase from £ 3 . 4 million to £ 4 . 1 million , and the Hull Royal Infirmary could see its bill rise from £ 1 . 8 million to £ 2 . 1 million . those be typical figure for hospital across the country . I do not believe it be the Government ' s intention to reduce hospital ' ability to drive down their waiting list , yet that be exactly what the impact of these change and the consequent high charge will be , so we support the amendment . the Bill also levy a tax on education by remove the business rate exemption for private school that be charity , a measure that will be compound by the Government ' s move to levy vat on private school fee and the increase to employer ' national insurance contribution . as I have say many time since the general election — and indeed before — the liberal Democrats be oppose , in principle , to the taxation of education , as it be a public good . we strongly support and champion parent ' right to choose , on which both those tax measure be an assault . do the hon . Lady not accept that this Government win an election on the basis of a promise that we would introduce vat on private school fee , so it be incumbent on we to deliver that manifesto pledge ? I be very grateful for that intervention , because I gently remind the hon . Gentleman that his party win the election with less than 34 % of the vote . I can not remember what the turnout be , but — 60 % . my hon . friend tell I it be 60 % . I can not do the math quickly enough — clearly , I need to do math to 18 — one in five voter — one in seven adult . there we go — basically , not many voter vote for Labour ' s manifesto . I will happily let the hon . Gentleman continue to plough that furrow , because I have have that argument make to I before — for instance , in the petition debate on vat on private school fee just last week . I be incredibly grateful to the hon . Lady for give way again . the simple fact be that we have the electoral system we have , and it be incumbent on whomever win a majority to deliver their manifesto pledge to govern the country . she may take issue with the electoral system , but it be the one that we have , and we must deliver our manifesto pledge . I respectfully say to the hon . Gentleman that a rise in employer ' national insurance contribution be not in his party ' s manifesto , nor be a cut to the winter fuel allowance , nor be the farmer tax , yet these be all thing Labour be implement . rise — unless the hon . Gentleman want to make a different point from his party ' s manifesto , which be not vote for by many people , I will not give way , although I will pick up on another point he make early . clause 5 , which implement the removal of charitable rate relief for private school , undermine the principle that I refer to : we should not be tax education , and we should respect parent ' right to choose . the clause will undermine the ability of independent school to undertake the brilliant partnership work that they do in our community and with state school . I have talk many time in this place of Lady Eleanor Holles and Hampton school in my constituency , which have do amazing work with underprivileged community in the Feltham area , such as with Reach academy , and help to transform the life chance and outcome for young people in that community . the measure will also limit those school ' ability to extend bursary to child from more disadvantaged background . the hon . Lady be absolutely right in what she be say on private school , and I agree with everything she have say on that point . do she agree that as well as the damaging effect on child who go to private school , this will affect child in state school ? in Hampshire , thousand of young pupil attend independent school , but the state school be run at nearly 100 % capacity . this measure be go to push hundred , if not thousand , of child into state school , which be already full , thereby harm and undermine the education of all child . be that not unforgivable ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her intervention . I be aware , from talk to colleague , that there be real pressure on school place in different part of the country . clearly , that be where we will see a negative impact . in my own constituency and , indeed , across London , we be struggle with secondary school place , although roll be fall in primary school , which will feed into the secondary sector . these pressure of child leave the private sector to go into the state sector be different in different part of the country . take together , the removal of the business rate exemption for school that be charity and the levying of vat on school will perversely serve only to make independent school more elitist and less accessible to many family up and down the country , which seem to be at odd with what this Labour Government purport to stand for . I be perplex as to why Ministers be so keen to push through these measure . just last week , they march their Labour mps through the No Lobby when the Liberal Democrats seek to impose a profit cap on the shameless profiteering of private equity - run special school , which be bankrupt our local authority . many vulnerable child be miss out on the support that they need because of the behaviour of some of these company , yet the Labour Government will not take action on they . they be , none the less , happy to tax parent and take away rate relief from those school operate as charity . before I come to a close , let I address the point make by the hon . member for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mark Sewards ) . he say how all of this money raise from business rate exemption and vat on private school would help fund the state sector . may I gently point out to he that it be his Education Secretary , who , before Christmas , write to the School Teachers ' Review Body essentially to say that teacher should be give a pay rise that be high than the extra funding that our state school will receive in the come financial year — and that have be confirm by datum release by the Education Department this week . as a result , many state school across the country , which be already feel the pinch , will have a shortfall in fund . school in my constituency already run Amazon wish list for thing such as glue stick , whiteboard marker and tissue box . they be rely on Parent Teacher Associations to buy new furniture . our state school be already struggle , but the money that the hon . Member say will be raise will not go to they ; they will not be fund sufficiently . therefore , this nirvana of state school that he claim we will have simply do not exist . the hon . Member have be very generous with her time . on the point that she make about fund for state school and about the other difficult decision that this Government have have to make , do she not accept that when we come to power , we find an economy that have be absolutely ruin by the conservative party ? we find every Department in reserve and a £ 22 billion black hole that have to be fill , because we be the party of economic responsibility . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . where we can make common cause be over the absolute mess in which the Conservatives leave both our public service and our economy . I have no quibble in agree with he on that point . we Liberal Democrats set out a whole series of tax measure — actually we be the only party that be not afraid to put forward revenue - raise measure — but his Government be choose not to accept any of they . they include tax our big tech giant that be ruin the mental health of our child and young people — [ interruption . ] yes , in fact , they be plan to slash that tax altogether . we also suggest reverse the tax cut that the Conservatives give to the big bank , so that we can continue put free school meal on the table for child , which , again , his Government be think of cut . then we suggest reform capital gain tax — Order . I remind the hon . Lady that we be in fact debate Lords amendment 1 and the Government motion to disagree . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be simply seek to address the hon . member ' s point . I be come in to land now . time and again we see Government policy at odd with their state objective . they want to tackle NHS waiting list but then slap business rate on to large hospital and put national insurance rise on to our GPs , hospice and social care provider . they claim to drive growth but then slap business rate on to much - need manufacturing and put a cliff edge on small business in our town centre . they want to extend opportunity to all but then go after charitable independent school that be serve their wide community — not to mention punish parent who dare to make that choice for their child . amid some good intention , the Government have lose their way in part of the Bill . I implore minister to genuinely consider the amendment before they in order to support our hospital and allow business up and down our country to grow and flourish . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Christian Wakeford Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Ashley Fox Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 316 , Noes 183 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 1 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2 . — ( Jim McMahon . ) Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Christian Wakeford Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Ashley Fox Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 322 , Noes 117 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3 . — ( Jim McMahon . ) Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Anna McMorrin Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Ashley Fox Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 316 , Noes 180 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 4 . — ( Jim McMahon . ) a Division be call . division off . question agree to . lord amendment 4 accordingly disagree to . lord amendment 5 to 12 disagree to . after clause 4 - Review : threshold effect Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 13 . — ( Jim McMahon . ) Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gen Kitchen Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Ashley Fox Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 320 , Noes 180 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 13 disagree to . after clause 4 Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 14 . — ( Jim McMahon . ) Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ellie Chowns Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gen Kitchen Shockat Adam Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Ashley Fox Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 320 , Noes 179 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 14 disagree to . clause 5 - Removal of relief Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 15 . — ( Jim McMahon . ) Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gen Kitchen Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Ashley Fox the House divide : Ayes 319 , Noes 166 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 15 disagree to . More than two hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F . ) lord amendment 16 to 19 disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 1 to 19 ; that Jim McMahon , Kate Dearden , Navendu Mishra , Mark Ferguson , Steve Yemm , Kevin Hollinrake and Bobby Dean be member of the Committee ; that Jim McMahon be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . great british Energy Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the great british Energy Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 5 September 2024 ( great british Energy Bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . great British Energy Bill consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 2 and 11 . if either of Lords amendment 2 or 11 be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . clause 3 - object I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : lord amendment 2 , amendment ( a ) and ( b ) , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 3 to 12 . I be pleased that the great british Energy Bill have return to this House . I would like to thank all member of both Houses for their scrutiny of this important legislation . I extend my thank in particular to the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , Lord Hunt of Kings Heath , for his invaluable support and collaborative approach in guide the Bill through the other place . twelve amendment be make there , which I will seek to address today . before I turn to they , I remind the House that the Government be elect on a manifesto commitment to set up great British Energy , and that be exactly what the Bill do . since the Bill be last in this House , we have appoint five start - up , non - executive director and announce Dan McGrail as interim ceo , base in Aberdeen , so that great British Energy can quickly get the expertise need to help the company develop . I be delighted to convene the first meeting of great British Energy ' s board of director last week in Aberdeen . we be determined to get great british Energy deliver for the british people as soon as possible . it have already make some incredibly exciting announcement on initial project , include a partnership with the Crown Estate , and most recently announcement on solar for school and hospital across England , with funding also for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . we look forward to GBE make further investment decision on project this year , drive forward our clean power mission and create thousand of job across the country in the process . lord amendment 2 would prevent the Secretary of State from provide financial assistance to great British Energy if credible evidence of modern slavery be find in its supply chain . there have understandably be significant interest in this amendment from member in the other place and on both side of this House . we recognise that concern have be raise widely on this issue , and I be seek to approach it in a collaborative and open way with hon . member . I will also address amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 2 , as our approach to this amendment be similar . I first of all thank my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for amendment ( a ) . I have be grateful for her engagement with I ahead of the Bill return to this House . I also pay tribute to her tireless work over many year on this important issue . her amendment would amend Lords amendment 2 make in the other place by create a cross - ministerial taskforce to which great British Energy would need to prove that its supply chain be free of force labour . I want the House to be in no doubt that this Government be absolutely committed to confront and tackle modern slavery in energy supply chain . as set out by my colleague Lord Hunt in the other place , great British Energy have a range of tool to tackle modern slavery in its supply chain . GBE will prepare a slavery and human trafficking statement when it meet the threshold set out under section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . that will outline the step it be take to ensure that slavery and human trafficking be not present in its supply chain or any part of its business . under the Procurement Act 2023 , GBE can reject bid and terminate contract with supplier that be know to use force labour themselves or that have it anywhere in their supply chain . I commit here that GBE will utilise the debarment list to ensure that supplier with unethical supply chain can not participate in procurement or be award contract by GBE . that be not altogether correct . the Minister will know full well that the Procurement Act can only be enact once a supplier have have a conviction under section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act . to do that , proceeding have to be able to be take against the company that be involve in the slavery . a british company involve in agency be not involve in the slavery . it would have to get the chinese Government to prosecute the chinese company to make sure that they get a prosecution here . that be never go to happen . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his contribution and his many year of work on this issue . I will come to some of the detail in addition to this measure , but it be important to say that the debarment list , which be part of the Act pass by the Conservative Government , have be in force since February and will be populate in due course . we will use that list as the basis of challenge the decision that great British Energy can make not to take contract with those on that list . I will look in more detail at the specific point that he raise , and I will come to some of that later in my speech . in addition , GBE will use the modern slavery assessment tool to assess its supply base for modern slavery risk . we expect great British Energy to take a leading role in ensure that any company in which it invest can demonstrate their own assessment of their supply chain for exposure to force labour . I assure the House that with these tool , GBE will tackle modern slavery head - on . where there be credible evidence of involvement anywhere in supply chain , GBE will ensure that it do everything in its power to combat the scourge of modern slavery and to pull up the standard expect of the wide UK energy sector in the process . my constituent Dorit Oliver - Wolff be a Holocaust survivor . she know what slave labour look like , and she have write to the Prime Minister to urge that our energy transition do not repeat so many of the atrocity that she have see . she be await a reply from the Prime Minister . will the Minister nudge no . 10 to ensure that she get the response that she need and deserve on her own behalf and that of victim of modern slavery across the world ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that point . I see that powerful letter , which be widely report in the press . I be not sure that nudge no . 10 be quite within my gift , but I will certainly raise the issue for a response . the wide point raise be absolutely right . I recognise the need not just in the energy sector but across our economy to ensure that we remove any risk of force labour in supply chain . we all share that commitment across the House . we need a number of different measure to make that happen . I be determined that great British Energy will a leader in the sector on do that , particularly within the energy space . return to the focus that great British Energy will have at the high level of its work , I can commit today that it will appoint a senior individual in the organisation to lead on ethical supply chain and modern slavery . far , the statement of strategic priority outline in the Bill , which the Secretary of State will issue to GBE once it receive Royal Assent , will include an overarching expectation that GBE proactively work to deliver on these commitment and , in do so , become a sector leader in this space , as we would expect from any company own by the british public . to far demonstrate our commitment across Government , we will write to all FTSE 100 company outline our expectation on responsible business to ensure that these issue , especially force labour and supply chain , be be effectively identify and address . give the importance of tackle modern slavery , it be crucial that business play their part to tackle that abhorrent crime . we can not do this without their support , so it be an important step across Government . the Minister be explain what the Government be do , but they be not do what member of this House and of the other place want — not just ask people to do stuff but lead . that be what this amendment do : it would allow the UK to really show its leadership on behalf of the british public . this will be a huge public company . why will the Minister not just commit to that further step today ? let I come to that point , because the specific reason that we disagree with their lordship on this amendment be that it would not actually do what the hon . Gentleman say . it would force the Government to cease all GBE ' s activity , rather than give it the scope to address any of the issue that we be raise today directly within the framework that we have outline . as I say , we as a Government be wholly commit to do this . great British Energy will be commit to ensure that the high standard be maintain . the amendment would cease the funding immediately , which would not give GB Energy the scope to actually invest in the appropriate supply chain and to tackle those issue directly . will the Minister accept that many people listen to this will see it as evade rather than address the issue ? we can have the Procurement Act , the taskforce and the letter to all the major company , but the fact remain that most company will seek financial assistance for the kind of project that they wish to do . if credible evidence be discover that supply chain have be contaminate by slavery , the easy way of stop purchase from supplier who act in that way will be to say , " you ' re not get any support . " I do not disagree with that at all , and that be possible . nothing force great British Energy , or any other company , to take investment from any individual or company . they can choose not to do so for a whole variety of reason , and if one of those reason be credible evidence of modern slavery in the supply chain , I would fully expect they not to invest in those company . that be exactly what we be talk about today . the point be that that conversation must be broad than one just about great british Energy . it be about wide supply chain and company right across the economy , and that be what we be hope to tackle . in parallel , although the energy sector be particularly important to I , I want to work across Government to outline a comprehensive plan to tackle modern slavery , which be a question right across the economy . rather than deal with the problem on a company - by - company basis , we must look to do so more broadly . to drive forward that work , I confirm that in the come week I will convene cross - departmental ministerial meeting involve the Department for Business and Trade , the Home Office , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and my Department to discuss how we can accelerate work across Government on this really important issue . I be grateful to the Minister for his speech and the consideration that he be give to this issue . will he look at a reverse burden of proof so that , instead of prove an exclusion , it be switch to show no association with modern slavery ? my hon . friend make a good point . I will come to that briefly in a moment . all of this work build on the implementation of the new procurement regime , which focus on ensure fair and open competition and treat supplier equally , as well as the work that we be do on the relaunche solar taskforce — it start under the previous Government and have continue under this government — to develop resilient , sustainable and innovative solar supply chain that be free from forced labour . we recognise that the landscape have shift since the Modern Slavery Act come into effect , which be why yesterday the Home Office publish update statutory guidance on transparency in supply chain that provide comprehensive and practical advice for business on how to tackle force labour in their supply chain . great British Energy will , of course , follow any new measure on modern slavery to which it be subject , just as any responsible public or private body should . I hope that the new step I have outline will reassure the House that Departments across Government will continue to work intensively on this issue . before I move on , I will reflect briefly on amendment ( b ) to Lords amendment 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , which would require the Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner to define " credible evidence " in Lords amendment 2 . while I thank he for the amendment , we have to resist it as the Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner ' s role be establish to encourage good practice rather than to look specifically into supply chain of individual company . the amendment would place a significant lawmaking function on the commissioner , which the role be not design for , and be currently not within the commissioner ' s power . the amendment would also have wide implication for how evidence of modern slavery be assess and could create unnecessary legal uncertainty and precedent . I turn to the remain amendment . the Government be pleased to table Lords amendment 1 and Lords amendment 3 to 12 follow positive discussion with peer in the other place . lord amendment 1 put community energy on the face of the Bill . the Government have a manifesto commitment to deliver a step change in community energy across the UK . we set up GBE to deliver our local power plan : it be at the heart of our plan for GBE . however , we recognise that during the Bill ' s passage , it be highlight that the role of community energy should be make explicit in the Bill . as my colleague in the other place say , the Government have accept that , and it be right that that be now in the Bill . I very much welcome the amendment . do the Minister agree that community energy be important not just for job and investment but for engage community with the transition to a new energy system ? do he recognise the need for the Government to support those initiative with funding go forward ? I agree with my hon . friend on both point . community energy be incredibly important to give community a stake in their energy future and to deliver the social and economic benefit that go with it . just last week we announce a significant amount of funding through GBE for community energy project across England , and fund for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland to spend on similar project , include community energy project in their own area . will the Minister give way ? I will give way briefly , but then I will have to make a bit of progress . can the Minister advise the House on the level of recurrence to that funding ? will it be year - on - year funding ? will he also give we an indication — maybe not precisely , but broadly — what that funding stream will be year on year under GB Energy ? it will not be recur in the same methodology . GBE do not yet exist , so we carry out the initial set of investment in a particular way . go forward , those project will be on the basis of the individual investment proposition put forward . individual project in Scotland or in other part of the UK will therefore apply for funding , they will be consider alongside other investment and those investment will be make . however , we will not deliver funding on a population share on that basis go forward . of course , funding be already go to the Scottish Government , with a significant increase in the budget this year to fund , for example , the community and renewable energy scheme and the community energy work , which be go on in Scotland already . briefly , Lords amendment 3 come in recognition of concern raise about the length of time GBE could operate without strategic priority . we have agree to an amendment that would prepare a set of strategic priority within six month , although I will say to the House , as I do in Committee , that we intend to move far fast than that . lord amendment 4 to 10 be bring about follow positive engagement with the devolve government and we be commit to collaboration on a UK - wide basis . the amendment , which relate to clause 5 , move from consult with devolve government to consent in relation to devolve competency . I be grateful to my ministerial colleague in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland for engage so productively and for the Parliaments ' legislative consent motion on the Bill . lord amendment 11 introduce an independent review of great British Energy ' s effectiveness . finally , Lords amendment 12 ensure that great British Energy will keep the impact of its activity on sustainable development under review . I know that be a concern raise by a number of member in relation to how we conserve nature and biodiversity while advance clean power . I therefore hope the House will join I in welcome that addition . I look forward to this debate — albeit short — and I urge the House to support the Government ' s position on the amendment . this be a sad and quite incredible day in this House . we have debate this Government ' s energy policy on many occasion in the past few month . we have frequently debate the merit , or lack thereof , of great British Energy , an organisation about which we still know very little — what it be for and what it will do . we be tell by the Labour party that it would bring down bill by £ 300 , but bill have go up . we be tell by the Labour party that it would create job , but nobody can tell we how many or by when . we be tell by the Labour party that it would be base in Aberdeen , but the interim chairman be base in Manchester and it look unlikely that we will see little more than a brass plaque in the granite city . we be tell that it would employ thousand of people , but that then turn to hundred . we be tell it would generate energy , but it will not — it do not have a licence to do that . we be tell that it would guarantee a positive return on every investment , but that be impossible . I therefore ask the Minister again : what will the entity actually do ? do they know ? will it be seek an electricity generation licence ? how will it bring down energy cost in this country ? turn to today ' s proceeding , far from the Secretary of State and the Minister ' s insistence that great British Energy will free we from reliance on foreign dictatorship , this headlong rush to clean power by 2030 will , in fact , make we more reliant than ever on the People ' s Republic of China . he and his Ministers be quick to note the reluctance to rely on petrostate dictator . I wonder how he would characterise the People ' s Republic of China , where political opposition be illegal , where citizen have more limited political right than in the Russian Federation , where dissent be invariably punish and where the use of forced labour be prove . in 2022 we block China General Nuclear from involvement in Sizewell C . in 2020 we prevent chinese influence on our communication network under the guise of Huawei . yet despite serious concern about the national security implication , the ethical implication and the high climate emission , the Secretary of State and Ministers be open the gate to chinese technology in our North sea wind farm , to solar panel make with slave labour and to use coal power . it be in the context of our increase reliance on foreign state that I wish to speak to the Lords amendment , and particularly Lords amendment 2 , table by Lord Alton of Liverpool . I be grateful to he , and we all recognise his long - stand dedication to this serious matter . I say that this be a sad day , and I feel for those Labour mp , for many of whom I have a great deal of respect , who come into this House , into politic and specifically into their party because they believe in social justice and decency , and for whom this be not just a job but a vocation . they come here in July believe that they would be part of a project to create a well world , in the spirit of Bevan , Attlee , Hardie and Wilson . I wonder what those titan of that proud labour movement would make of this today , because it be on this day in 1807 that the Abolition of the Slave Trade Act receive Royal Assent , and 218 year on , Labour mp be go to be whip to allow the state to directly fund import of good build by slave labour in China . [ interruption . ] they complain , but it be true . what will those mp say to their constituent — to their voter ? how will they explain this vote in the week that we mark 10 year since the Modern Slavery Act 2015 ? indeed , how will they explain it to themselves ? we be proud to have introduce that Act 10 year ago . it be a landmark piece of legislation . however , it be right that we recognise now that the protection against the use of public money in supply chain with exposure to the use of modern slave labour need to be more robust . they be vote against this incredibly sensible amendment that seek to protect some of the most oppressed people in the world , and to ensure that our net zero objective , whatever one ' s view of they , will not be build on the back of slave labour , or on the back of the Uyghur Muslims of Xinjiang and elsewhere . the vast majority of solar panel be expose to Xinjiang silicon , where manufacturer have be find to have link to Uyghur force labour . therefore , what we be see today be not simply the offshoring of our emission , although we be , and it be not just about the offshoring of our energy security , although that be also true . today we be see the offshoring of the Labour party ' s moral compass , and we all know why : because clean power by 2030 demand it . the fact be that the Government will not achieve that target that they sign up to without the help of China and without import this green revolution from coal - power factory thousand of mile away . they be pursue a make - in - China energy transition build on the back of slave labour and power by chinese coal . it be quite ironic that the Minister be willing to stomach the high carbon emission associate with import liquefy natural gas from abroad . the emission be four time high than those from drill at home . the Government want to import solar panel manufacture use coal power and taint by human right abuse , rather than give our domestic supply chain the time to grow . it be an irony that be not lose on we , and neither will it be lose on the country . this be , I be afraid , the pyrrhic victory of ideology over sense , and of zealotry over the national interest . it be bad for Britain , it be bad for bill payer and it really be quite bad for the climate . do my hon . friend agree that build more of that infrastructure here in the United Kingdom would be good for british job and for our energy security , just as issue new oil and gas licence in Scotland would be , as that would allow we to produce more of our energy here at home and make we safe from volatile energy market abroad ? my hon . friend will not be at all surprised to learn that I agree with he entirely . it be purely the imposition on this country of arbitrary , needless target , such as clean power by 2030 , to generate headline and get the Secretary of State ' s name up in light that be require we to become more reliant on the People ' s Republic of China for the good , technology and equipment to develop the solar farm , nearly all of which will be taint by slave labour in some way , give the reliance on slave labour in part of that country for that infrastructure and technology . so of course I agree with he , and of course it would be much well if we be issue new licence and continue to support our own domestic oil and gas industry . that be something that we have debate time and again , and I be sure we will come back to this House to debate it again in the future . great British Energy be not great , it be not british and it will not generate any energy . public fund should not be — must not be — funding import taint by modern slavery and slave labour . british taxpayer deserve well : a domestic supply chain that create job at home rather than funding abuse abroad . that be why we support Lords amendment 2 , and I urge Labour Members to do the right thing today and vote for it as well . I rise to speak to my amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 2 , which I hope might act as a bridge between our two Houses . although I welcome this Bill , from the moment it start its journey through Parliament I have be issue a warning . without proper safeguard in place , our transition to net zero will be carry through on the back of those in slavery . renewable energy be vital for our transition to a low - carbon economy , but we know that human right abuse be inherent in our green technology . there be evidence of child labour in cobalt mining in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , and of labour exploitation in nickel processing in Indonesia . force labour be commit at scale in Xinjiang in China , with the abuse of Uyghurs in steel production — a material that make up nearly 80 % of our wind turbine — and , of course , there be well - document abuse in the production of solar panel . on Report , I be hugely grateful for the Energy Secretary ' s commitment to I : " we have be clear that no company in the UK should have force labour in its supply chain , and we will be work with colleague across Government to tackle the issue of the Uyghur force labour in supply chain " — [ Official Report , 29 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 775 . ] but too often we have accept warm word at the Dispatch Box that have fail to materialise . the Bill be a serious piece of legislation , not least as the Government have commit to capitalise GB Energy with over £ 8 . 3 billion . if company want to benefit from taxpayer ' money , they must be able to prove that their supply chain be free of force labour . I have table amendment ( a ) to that effect , as it would place the burden of proof on business . Cross - Government work be the only way to end the stagnation in our response to modern slavery . once slavery be find , we must take action , include by place rogue company on the Procurement Act ' s debarment list to ban they from win other public contract . the public deserve a guarantee that their money will not be use to fund human right abuse . to quote a Business and Trade Minister , " no company should have abuse in their supply chain " , so I admire Ministers ' resolve to give genuine commitment to root out slavery in their area of responsibility . when it come to GBE , my amendment offer a simple , cost - effective method to achieve that . I be glad that the Minister agree , but for clarity , let I repeat what I believe he have commit to and push he a little far . primarily , will the Minister confirm that there will be clarity within GB Energy ' s strategic objective and framework document that designate company must not use force labour in any part of their supply chain , and that that need to be map down to raw material ? I be glad that there will be a cross - ministerial working group to work across department to tackle slavery in supply chain — that be exactly what need to happen — and a commitment to leverage the Procurement Act ' s debarment list where there be evidence of bidder or supplier with unethical supply chain . let we remember that the Act include discretionary ground that do not require a conviction . of course , all of that require a designate leader within GBE to take accountability . finally , I have one more ask : will the Minister prioritise buying british to boost our economy and avoid the risk of reliance on slave - make renewable from international source ? of course , the issue of modern slavery be big than renewable , but we must start somewhere . with a clear path and strong commitment , GB Energy can lead from the front and stop the UK become a dumping ground for slave - make good . base on the Minister ' s word , and have seek those clarification , I will not press my amendment . I hope it also satisfy the other place that the Minister have listen and act to stamp out modern slavery in GB Energy ' s future procurement , and I thank the Minister for that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . alongside community group across the country , include power for People and Community Energy England , I be pleased to welcome the inclusion of community energy and benefit in the Bill through Lords amendment 1 . it be possible after all , and I congratulate the Government on take this step . we Liberal Democrats have push hard for that in this House and the other place , but there have be a lot of cross - party work to achieve it , and I be delighted that its inclusion be now enshrine in law . this be a victory for community voice , give they a real stake in the energy transition through full or partial ownership of local power . community like mine in South Cambridgeshire , where many be off grid and struggle with volatile oil price , want to generate and sell their own green energy locally . it be absurd that that be not possible . there be five community energy scheme in my constituency , and they all contribute to local energy supply . an increase in community energy project would boost the local economy , as my hon . Friend say , create job and reduce energy cost , especially in rural area . do she agree that we must go far and create long - term plan to support this type of initiative ? I completely agree . the great british Energy Bill give a statutory steer that help we have those long - term plan . the clean energy transition have to be do with community , not to community . I commend the Government for commit an additional £ 5 million to the community energy fund , bring certainty at least to its short - term future . lord amendment 1 also address community benefit , which be critical for take people with we on this pathway to the energy transition . if community be to host energy infrastructure , whether for onshore wind or large - scale solar farm , those benefit have to go beyond token gesture such as roof for scout hut or some apprenticeship . in Scotland , for example , community benefit be worth £ 5 , 000 per instal megawatt per year . this mean that a controversial large - scale solar project in my constituency , such as the Kingsway solar farm , could provide £ 2 . 5 million annually to the local community . that be the scale we should be talk about , and it have to be the community that determine how and where that money be spend . Lords amendment 12 be also a vital addition to the Bill , require GB Energy to keep its impact on sustainable development under review . credit be due to Baroness Hayman , who fight tirelessly in the other House to ensure that sustainability be embed in our energy transition through that amendment . we welcome the assurance we have receive that in the update framework agreement , not only will the local economy of coastal community be take into consideration , but there will be an explicit climate and nature duty for GB Energy . GB Energy have to consider economic , environmental and social need , ensure that future generation can meet their need . I would have like to discuss amendment ( a ) , in the name of the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , and amendment ( b ) , in the name of the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , both to Lords amendment 2 . modern slavery be a barbaric practice that should have be eradicate long ago . we look to the promise of our green energy transformation , but it can not take place at the cost of human right abuse across the world . research from Sheffield Hallam University have directly link China ' s labour transfer programme to the global solar panel supply chain . China produce 40 % of the world ' s polysilicon and 80 % of its solar panel , and right now , 2 . 7 million Uyghurs be subject to state detention and force labour . it be incomprehensible that the Government be seek to vote down an amendment that would withdraw GB Energy investment from supply chain taint by force labour . GB Energy have to set the standard , not muddle along . there be nothing sufficiently robust in the Bill to ensure that there be no forced labour in this supply chain . the solar taskforce do not have the mandate to ensure that . as we have hear , the Procurement Act 2023 can not address the issue . this should be an issue not just for the energy sector . the health sector have show leadership by address the matter in the Health and Care Act 2022 . the great british Energy Bill be a key piece of legislation , and measure on forced labour should be part of it . this be not just about the practicality of the need to include these measure . be it not essential that we show the public that the measure we be promote to achieve net zero — a cause for which there be overwhelming public support , notwithstanding some party ’ attitude to our need to get there and when — be not taint by human right abuse ? I completely agree . that be why the Liberal Democrats will continue to call for restriction on trade with region where abuse take place , include Xinjiang , and advocate for magnitsky - style sanction against individual and entity involve in uyghur persecution . this be about more than Britain . it be about play our part conscientiously in a global movement to see all human right abuse stop . I rise to speak in support of my amendment ( b ) to Lords amendment 2 , in my capacity as a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , which be undertake an inquiry on force labour in UK supply chain . lord amendment 2 , table in the Lords by our Chair , Lord Alton of Liverpool , and pass there , seek to prevent the Secretary of State from provide financial assistance to any company designate " great British Energy " when there be " credible evidence " of modern slavery in its supply chain . my amendment take into account some of the argument make by the Government in the Lords , and seek to refine the Lords amendment by provide a mechanism for determine " credible evidence " . my amendment empower the Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner to define what constitute " credible evidence " of supply chain slavery . it be craft so as to allow the Bill to be as business friendly as possible , while ensure that it still have tooth . the commissioner be back this initiative . I welcome the Bill . I support the creation of great British Energy and the Government ' s commitment to achieve our net zero ambition and clean power by 2030 , but we must have the high ethical standard for our solar industry . the british public do not want our net zero future to be build on slave labour . in its report , " source solar energy without Uyghur force labour " , Unison state that all polysilicon manufacturer in the Uyghur region have participate in force labour transfer programme , and / or be supply by raw material manufacturer that have do so . multiple UK public sector body have be find to procure solar material from company source polysilicon from the region . as the UK ' s solar capacity be set to double , concern be mount that council and other public service body will get lock into long - term contract with unethical supplier . we must ensure that our solar supply chain be free from Uyghur slave labour . a report by the China Strategic Risks Institute estimate that if Beijing be to restrict solar export , it would cost the UK economy £ 4 . 4 billion , raise household energy bill by £ 155 , and stall our path to net zero . it would leave our ability to meet climate goal and protect british consumer at the mercy of decision make in China . we need only look at the raising of tariff around the world , include on China , to understand the risk of rely solely on China for polysilicon and solar panel . if GB Energy become reliant solely on solar panel from China , we will not just be complicit in human right abuse , but will create an enormous point of strategic vulnerability in our energy system . that would give the chinese state a lever of influence over our critical infrastructure , and undermine our sovereignty . Professor Laura Murphy , who until January this year be senior policy adviser to the United States Department of Homeland Security on the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act , and be perhaps the world ' s lead expert on Xinjiang supply chain , state : " from a human right and climate perspective , the alternative of base our green energy future on Xinjiang coal ' s high carbon emission and on the forced labour of oppressed community be a high and long - term price to pay . " if we allow GB Energy to contract with company that profit from modern slavery , we directly undermine fair competition . no british worker can compete with a system that rely on forced labour . in our manifesto , we pledge secure , well - pay green job . my amendment seek to ensure that british worker be not undercut by chinese renewable company that profit from modern slavery , and that GB Energy promote not only the development of the UK ' s renewable sector , but improve human right condition for all worker at each point in the supply chain . it be true that the United States ' s legislation have nudge company to diversify their supply chain , and there be a gradual move away from supplier use force labour in the United States . a number of company have be sanction under the Uyghur Forced Labour Prevention Act for use force labour . the solar taskforce , while a welcome step , be not empower to assess modern slavery risk in procurement , and neither be it equip with the anti - slavery expertise necessary to mitigate those risk . the taskforce ' s work be come to a conclusion , so will the Minister outline the step that will follow that work to ensure a solid mechanism that exclude force labour product from the solar supply chain ? as my hon . friend the Minister have state , " no UK company should have force labour in its supply chain " , and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero reaffirm that position . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade give an " absolute assurance " that " no modern slavery " would be permit in supply chain affect UK good . the amendment simply ensure that those commitment be enforce . sadly , the current statutory position have not be sufficient to prevent slave - make renewable from enter the UK . More must be do , and the amendment be a modest and business - friendly way to incentivise clean supply chain . the Bill present an opportunity to use the Government ' s purchase power to nudge business in the right direction . this week mark 10 year since the Modern Slavery Act 2015 become law . once a leader in the fight against modern slavery , we be now in danger of fall behind the US , as I have outline , and the EU . the amendment present a credible mechanism for ensure a clean energy future . as the Minister outline , this be just one way of ensure that we remove force labour from our supply chain . he raise the prospect of use the Procurement Act 2023 , and I welcome what he say , but the Act require a supplier to be convict under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , or of an offence in their country relate to force labour . the nature of force labour in China mean that it be disguised , so those condition would not be meet . will the welcome cross - departmental working group , which the Minister announce in his opening statement , look at the Procurement Act and ensure that it be fit for purpose ? will the group look at the way that the United States have use a rebuttal presumption for good from Xinjiang , or at another similar mechanism ? as a matter of urgency , will the Minister and his group ensure that we have the power and expertise to prevent force labour in our solar panel supply chain ? will he work with trade union , non - governmental organisation and the Independent Anti - Slavery Commission on this ? will the Minister meet I and Professor Laura Murphy , who work on this issue at Sheffield Hallam University , as a matter of urgency to explore the detail of how we can ensure a robust system , like the one that she help to implement in the United States — a robust system not just for GB Energy , but for the whole solar industry ? I agree with the Minister that this be not just an issue for GB Energy , but for the whole industry . will the Minister work with I to get a workable debarment list , so that we can ensure that GB Energy be act on modern slavery ? will he give a commitment that GB Energy ' s operate framework be commit to tackle force labour ? if I get these assurance from the Minister , I be happy to withdraw my amendment and work with the Government ' s cross - departmental working group and other to ensure that we can take the scandal of force labour out of our solar supply chain . I be grateful to be call at this point , Madam Deputy Speaker . other will want to speak , so I will be as brief as I possibly can . as I say early , the Minister be incorrect in believe that the Procurement Act give any protection at all against modern slavery in the supply chain . that be a fact of life that we have know for age . I be one of those who bring the Modern Slavery Act into be 10 year ago , but at that time we do not understand how bad the situation be in China . over 90 % of polysilicon be make in China , and we know for a fact that 97 % of all the solar array be sell here contain polysilicon from Xinjiang , which will have be make by slave labour . there be no dispute at all about that . the question face the Government be not — [ interruption . ] I would be grateful if the Minister could listen . the question face the Government be not whether they think that modern slavery be good — I do not for one moment accuse they of think that . what have go missing , and what Lord Alton ' s amendment focus on , be recognition that there be no requirement on the Government to deal with slavery in the supply chain , and no way for they to do that . as have be say , America have turn the burden of proof upside down and say , " we assume you have slave labour in your product . you must prove to we that you do not . " that be the only way to deal with this . the Americans then sanction offend company , but under our legislation , the Government do not have such measure available to they . the Procurement Act do not even do a whisper of that , because it need a prosecution to have be mount under the Modern Slavery Act , and that can not happen because a company that be an agent for a Chinese - make solar array will not be prosecute . under the present law , only the chinese company that make the solar array can be prosecute . that mean that no prosecution will take place ; no company in China will be prosecute by the Chinese Government , because the chinese Government be the one who set up this ghastly process . why ? because it make their array cheap than anybody else ' s in the world . that be how they have pretty much wipe out all other array production in the world . let we ask ourselves : where will we get our array from ? the answer be that we can not get they anywhere else , but if we have to , we would have to pay a lot of money . I understand that there be probably a debate go on in Government about whether we go down that road , which would make array awfully expensive . in conclusion , the Government know the fact . I support amendment ( b ) to Lords amendment 2 ; I support the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , who bring it forward for the right reason ; and I support the way in which the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) bring forward her amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 2 . the Government must act . if we do not act , make force labour illegal and punish the company involve in it , directly or as agent , then we will be guilty of increase slavery in China — that be what tonight ' s debate be about . I be sorry that the Government will get rid of this Lords amendment . they could have do a deal to enhance it or whatever , but now they will have to commit to come forward with legislation to increase and improve the Act that they already have , which will take another debate . I say to the Government : for goodness ' sake . by the way , I have this issue with my own party when we be in government , and I vote against it ; I vote with the Labour party to put this provision in the Health and Care Act 2022 . we do that together . I hope nobody think that I be be party political , because I be not . I be sanction by the Chinese Government because we raise this issue originally . I say to they that I and many in this House will not stop until the Government face up to one thing and one thing only : not one life through modern slavery be worth a low cost on a solar array . that should be the epitaph of the ridiculous position that the Government be in . as an energy industry professional before enter this place , I be very pleased to see that great British Energy be make impressive stride . it have secure a landmark partnership with the Crown Estate , and we have see it commit to more and more solar power , which be much welcome by my constituent . we have also see investment in carbon capture and storage cluster in Teesside and Merseyside , bring thousand of job to those area . more broadly , I welcome the Government ' s move to lift the ban on onshore wind in England and to promote funding in new , emerge industry , include hydrogen and fusion energy . I also look forward to the Government announce the winner of the small modular reactor contract at some point over the come week , when I hope that the Government will also place a sizeable order . as we advance towards a future of clean , secure , home - grow energy , we must ensure that that future be build on principle of justice and respect for human right . I will therefore speak to Lords amendment 2 . since be elect last year as the Member of Parliament for Rushcliffe , I have be contact by constituent voice their concern about what be happen in the Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region of China . in 2021 , Sir Geoffrey Nice KC deliver the Uyghur tribunal ' s judgment here in London deeming that the chinese Government ' s policy amount to " a deliberate , systematic and concerted policy " to bring about " long - term reduction of Uyghur and other ethnic minority population " . I be afraid that forced labour be be use as a key instrument in this campaign of oppression . More than 1 million Uyghurs have be detain in re - education camp , and many be transfer to work in factory , mine and field under barbaric condition . as have be mention , some of those factory produce polysilicon , which be a critical component in 95 % of the world ' s solar panel . on that basis , it be estimate that around 40 % of the UK solar industry may be at risk of source material taint by this state - sponsor forced labour . that be why I believe this House have a responsibility to ask hard question , as these Lords amendment have do . if we be to stand as a country that champion both human right and climate action , we must ensure that our clean energy future be not build on the back of exploit people . the choice we make on legislation such as this on who receive british taxpayer ' money and what standard we demand in procurement be not abstract : they be ultimately a measure of whether we be willing to trade convenience for complicity . it be therefore right that we always examine how supply chain operate . it be right that we consider how credible evidence of forced labour should be define and who be well place to determine that . it be right that we reflect on whether our current legal framework be sufficient . as have be mention , the Modern Slavery Act 2015 be groundbreake at the time , but it lack the tooth to tackle the forced labour take place in Xinjiang . in that context , we should note the step take across the Atlantic . in June , it will be three year since the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act take effect in the United States , and I believe similar resolve be need here in the United Kingdom . we should expedite update and strengthen our modern slavery legislation in the light of great British Energy ' s ambitious plan . the Uyghur people , and other face slavery around the world , deserve to know that Britain will not turn a blind eye . we can not end all injustice , but we can ensure that our law , procurement policy and public financing do not sustain atrocity . I therefore implore the Government to listen to member on the Labour and Opposition Benches today . I thank the Minister for the significant step he have already outline , and ask he to reassure we once more that the relevant step will be take to prevent Great British Energy from in any way contribute to promote or sustain known atrocity . I appreciate that a number of member still want to speak , so I will keep my comment short . the Government ' s refusal to support Lords amendment 2 show the absolutism of their net zero and energy policy . the amendment be not only sensible but morally correct , and in vote against it , the Government be signal that their ambition to reach net zero trump everything else . can that really be correct ? if we can not support those who be suffer from modern slavery , what be we do ? be the rush to net zero really worth that ? net zero be intend to prevent people on this planet from go down a route towards a planet that be not inhabitable — that be what we have be sell . what be we save the planet for , if not to enable people to work in a safe , secure way ? we can not sacrifice that ; we can not condone force labour by sell our moral to China in order to rush towards net zero . the Uyghur Muslims in China do not have a safe , secure place to work . they be oppress , and by not support Lords amendment 2 , the Government be support that oppression . we have rightly condemn slavery in the past . the Government have rightly condemn past slavery , but they be now happy to condone force labour in China . it be an unbelievable situation that we find ourselves in , but we be get use to this sort of behaviour from the Government . we have see the heartless policy that they have implement since they come to power , whether that be the family farm tax , the tax on job that be put people out of work , or tax child ' s hospice , which the Government have vote for this afternoon . by not support Lords amendment 2 , the Government be effectively say that they be happy to turn a blind eye to modern slavery across the world . that be something that Conservative Members can not possibly support . until July last year , those in the Labour party be happy to promote their moral , but it seem that those moral be leave in front of the last door they knock on in July . rise — with the leave of the House , I call the Minister . with the leave of the House , I will sum up the debate . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution to this debate , although it have be short , on a number of the amendment but perhaps most importantly on forced labour and modern slavery in our economy . I want to reflect on some of the contribution from member on both side of the House , but let I start by say that I hear the very strong view that have be express on this issue . it be right that government of whatever party constantly challenge themselves to go far in tackle these issue , because — as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) put it — even one person be affect by force labour be an absolute disgrace . we should collectively tackle that issue use whatever mean we can . as such , I want to reiterate clearly that contrary to some of the contribution we have hear from Conservative Members , Lords amendment 2 be about amend the great british Energy Bill , not about the Government ' s wide commitment to tackle modern slavery . it can be repeat as often as Conservative member like , but it be simply disingenuous to come to this place and suggest that the Labour party have suddenly decide not to care about this issue . I really do take issue with that . will the Minister give way ? the right hon . Gentleman be not in the Chamber for a lot of the debate , but I will give way to he . I think the Minister would accept that Lords amendment 2 be a very modest proposal that could make a significant difference to people ' s life and outcome in China . there be talk of Labour buy off its Back Benchers by say that further legislation be come down the line — be that in six month ' time , a year ' s time , or two year ' time ? when be it go to come ? first , the right hon . Gentleman care so much about the issue that he have only just turn up to the debate . secondly , he be a senior member of the Government for 14 year . if this be an issue that he care about so much , why be we here debate it now ? the truth be that the previous Government could have tackle this issue in a much clear way . I will not follow he on that point . as I say clearly in open the debate , which I do not think the right hon . Gentleman be here for , there should no modern slavery anywhere in our economy or our supply chain . to deliver , we must work across Government and across the economy , because it be not just about the investment that great British Energy make . rise — I will give way briefly to my hon . friend the Member for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) , and then I need to finish . the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Procurement Act 2023 do not work in this area . to do anything , two criterion must be meet , and they be only advisory . in the World Health Organisation , we have to prove that organ harvesting be not an " ethical organ transplant system " , and we can not get to the supply chain , which be state - invent , state - impose and disguised . I urge the Minister to give a commitment that he will listen to the argument in these two amendment . I understand the argument that my hon . friend be make , but the issue she rightly highlight , as other member have , go much wide than great British Energy , which the Bill set up as a publicly own energy company . those issue be about the wide economy and investment across our supply chain . will the Minister give way ? I need to close . I be sorry . in part , we be set up great British Energy because we want to deliver home - grow supply chain and an industrial strategy , in spite of the conservative party have completely fail to deliver that for 14 year — in fact , it have a complete ignorance of how to build supply chain . have it deliver on some of the supply chain in this country , we might not have to import so much . [ interruption . ] opposition member can shout all they want ; they know that they fail on this matter , and we be pick up the piece . for those member who be in the debate , I want to respond to the point raise , in particular in the powerful speech make by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . on her point about how widespread the problem of forced labour be , that underline why a piecemeal approach , legislate on individual company here and there , be not the right one . we need to work across Government to tackle the problem throughout the economy . she ask for clarity on some of the point make . she be right to reiterate the point that I intend to pull together Ministers from across Government , include the Foreign Office , the Home Office , the Department for Business and Trade and my Department , to look at how we can collectively tackle the issue . there will be a designate leader within great British Energy to drive this work forward . we will utilise the debarment list . more broadly , we fully expect great British Energy to do everything in its power under the relevant guidance and legislation to remove any instance of force labour from supply chain . GBE must not approve the use of product from company that may be link to force labour . this be an important debate on a Bill that be in our manifesto . it deliver the first new national publicly - own energy generation company in 75 year . it be back by the british public , and it will deliver job and investment all over the country . it will deliver the deployment of clean power . we will tackle the supply chain to ensure that job come to this country and that we tackle the scourge of modern slavery , not just through GBE but across the economy . that be our commitment . I urge member to support the Government ' s position . in the 15 second I have leave , I reiterate the point I make early : I be willing to work with member across the House to tackle this fundamental issue , which be of extreme importance across the Government . one hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . Lords Amendment 1 agree to . clause 4 - financial assistance Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2 . — ( Michael Shanks . ) Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Christian Wakeford Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 314 , Noes 198 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2 disagree to . lord amendment 3 to 12 agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive in respect of Lords amendment 11 . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up a Reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 2 ; that Michael Shanks , Anna Turley , Chris McDonald , Luke Myer , Luke Murphy , Andrew Bowie and Susan Murray be member of the Committee ; that Michael Shanks be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill for the purpose of supplement the Order of 14 October 2024 ( terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill consideration of Lords amendment Clause 3 - qualifying event I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to consider Lords amendment 2 to 13 . the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill — Martyn ' s law — have return to this House in good shape . only a small number of amendment be make in the other place , with all but one make by the Government , all of which we shall consider this evening . the Government have be particularly grateful for the collaborative approach to scrutinise the Bill across both Houses , and I hope that this will continue this evening , as we take the final step to pass this important piece of legislation . I shall begin by speak to Lords amendment 1 , 2 , 10 , 11 , 12 and 13 . these amendment , bring by the Government in the other place , make minor and technical change to far clarify the condition for qualifying premise and qualifying event . specifically , these amendment clarify the intention that premise and event be not in scope where attendance be in a personal or private capacity — for example , a wedding attend by relation and friend , or an office party attend by employee and customer . these be private event , not publicly accessible , and the amendment make it even clear that they should be out of scope . these amendment do not alter the intended policy or the scope of the Bill . they be technical change to provide further clarity on who will be within scope of this legislation . let I turn to Lords amendment 5 , which be table by Baroness Suttie on behalf of the Liberal Democrats . this amendment place a statutory duty on the Secretary of State to consult as appropriate before publication of the guidance under clause 27 . as my noble friend Lord Hanson of Flint make clear in the other place , the Government be happy to accept this amendment . we be acutely aware of the importance of the guidance that will accompany this Bill and it be vital that those responsible for qualifying premise and event have both the time and the information need to ensure that they can plan , prepare for , and , ultimately , implement the requirement . it be also essential that the guidance be inform by proper consideration and engagement . this have always be the Government ' s intention and we be content to enshrine the principle of appropriate consultation in statute by virtue of this amendment . I turn finally to Lords amendment 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 and 9 , which be bring by the Government in light of the clear cross - party support to far strengthen the safeguard on the use of certain Henry VIII power in the Bill Amendments 3 , 4 , 6 and 9 consolidate into clause 32 the power previously find in clause 5 and 6 , which allow the Secretary of State to add , omit or amend the description of public protection procedure or measure . amendment 7 and 8 place condition on these power that the Secretary of State must satisfy . these condition be also add to the power in clause 32 that enable the Secretary of State to alter the qualifying threshold for standard duty premise , enhance duty premise and qualify event . these condition limit the use of the power to lower the threshold — or to add new procedure or measure — to where the Secretary of State consider it necessary to do so for public protection . conversely , the threshold can be raise — or procedure or measure omit or amend — only if the Secretary of State consider that their retention be not necessary for public protection . additionally , Lords amendment 8 will require the Secretary of State to consult such person as they consider appropriate before exercise any of the power specify in clause 32 , include those I have just describe . the Government consider that this approach provide an extra level of assurance if future Secretaries of State be consider use these power . it strike the right balance between ensure the Bill can be keep up to date , while provide in the Bill an important set of further safeguard to ensure that these power , if use , be use appropriately and with proper consideration . I be grateful to those in the other place for their consider scrutiny of these measure and for continue the collaborative approach that have flow through the passage of the Bill . I particularly want to thank Lord Anderson of Ipswich for his constructive challenge , and I be pleased that he feel able to add his name to the Government amendment . I be sure this House agree that the amendment provide further safeguard and ensure that if and when the power be use , they be use appropriately and with sufficient consultation . before I conclude , I will take this opportunity to recognise the extraordinary campaigning effort by Figen Murray , without which we would not be here today , and I will have more to say about Figen later . she have always be very clear that the Martyn ' s law campaign be a team effort , so I want to take the opportunity this evening to recognise the contribution of the whole campaign team , include Brendan , Nick , Nathan and Stuart . with that , I very much hope that right hon . and hon . member will support all of the amendment before we today . I call the shadow Minister . on 22 May 2017 , islamist extremist Salman Abedi carry out a sicken attack on the Manchester arena follow a concert . this barbaric act of terrorism kill 22 people and injure more than 1 , 000 other , many of they child . it be the deadly act of terrorism in this country since the 7 / 7 bombing in 2005 . what be take from the victim and those who love they can never be give back . that of course include Figen Murray , whose determination and fortitude we honour this afternoon and whose son Martyn Hett we remember , along with all the other who be kill or injure on that horrible day . this Bill , inherit from the previous Government , be an attempt to address an insufficiency in our anti - terror framework by ensure that our public space and public event be well prepared for any future attack . this be a noble goal and one that colleague on both side of the House undoubtedly support . when the Bill be last in this place , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , speak of the concern we all share to get the balance right . our safeguard against potential future terror attack must be robust but also proportionate and pragmatic . he speak of the spirit of support , co - operation and openness in which we suggest small amendment to the Bill , and I believe amendment be table in the other place in that same spirit . we particularly welcome the change from invitation to ticket and the clarity that provide on private event be out of scope of this legislation . we be sorry not to see more of those amendment in this place for debate . I urge the Minister , who I know be very conscious of the different pressure and the need for balance , to keep the threshold under review , which clause 32 provide for , and to continue to assess the impact of this legislation on community institution . we continue to have concern that in its current form the legislation risk add to the already enormous burden of regulation and paperwork that small hospitality and community venue such as pub , church and village hall must navigate on a daily basis , so we welcome amendment 8 on consultation . it be right that people of this country should be able to go about their daily life and go to event in the knowledge that they be safe . it be also right that we take action to ensure that horrific attack like the one carry out in Manchester in May 2017 do not happen again . as we pursue this noble goal , we should remain aware of and sensitive to the potential negative impact of our good intention . small venue across the country be already struggle , and we must be cautious about add to that burden , but we be happy to support the Lords amendment today . my contribution will be brief . I start by thank the Minister and Lord Hanson in the other place for their hard work with other on bring the Bill to fruition . I also thank they for the kindness and courtesy they have show my constituent Figen Murray and her husband Stuart . I echo what the Minister say early in pay tribute to they and the whole campaign team who have work so hard on this . they have ask I to place on the record their view that the other place do a good job in its scrutiny of the Bill ; it be cross - party and collaborative , and the consider amendment from the other place will strengthen the Bill . for my part , I be glad that the threshold be not far water down , and I understand that it be important to keep they under review . this be a good Bill , and it will be a good law . it will have a deterrent effect and a protective effect , and it will save life . it be a pleasure to return to the Chamber to consider the Bill . over recent month , it have be scrutinise in detail at the other end of this building , and I thank colleague in the House of Lords for their collaborative work . the change bring forward be sensible and proportionate , and they reflect the broad cross - party consensus behind the aim of this legislation . a number of the change be technical in nature but crucial for clarity . they address several concern that I and other raise on Second reading about the scope of qualifying event under the Bill . the Lords amend it to make it clear that private event — wedding , office party or similar — sit outside its scope . that help to ensure that the law be design for public - face venue without overreach into personal or private space . in addition , several important change be make to strengthen the safeguard around delegate power . the amendment consolidate into a single clause the key power of the Secretary of State to amend the public protection procedure that must be in place in each tier . they also require the Secretary of State to meet a high bar of necessity to make change to qualifying threshold for protective measure , and to consult relevant party before exercise these power . these be welcome change that introduce further transparency and ensure that the Bill ' s implementation be balanced and accountable . another key area of discussion throughout the Bill ' s passage have be the need for clear and accessible guidance . on Second Reading , I and other caution that venue operator would struggle to comply with the law without adequate support . I be therefore pleased that the Minister in the Lords give a firm commitment , repeat by the Minister today , that guidance will be publish well in advance of the change come into force , and that there will be a period of engagement to ensure that it be robust and practical . I thank my liberal Democrat colleague Baroness Suttie for her tireless work on this point and for her amendment , which help secure this assurance . her contribution in the Lords have strengthen the Bill considerably . it be impossible to consider this legislation without remember why we be here . martyn ' s law be bear from an unimaginable tragedy — the terrorist attack at Manchester Arena in 2017 . as the MP for Hazel Grove in Greater Manchester , I witness at first hand the resilience and the unity that follow the arena attack . I remember join my community in Romiley Precinct when resident come together in quiet solidarity the evening after . it be an act of remembrance , but also a statement that terrorism will never define we , and that we will not be divide by it . among the 22 life take that night be Martyn Hett , a 29 - year - old from Stockport . his mother Figen Murray have show extraordinary resolve in the year since the attack . her campaign for Martyn ' s law have be define by compassion , determination and a belief that no other family should ever experience what hers have have to endure . today we be see the fruit of her dedication . the Bill be a testament to her courage and unrelenting hope that something good could emerge from the dark of circumstance . thank to Figen ' s advocacy , this country will be well prepared to keep people safe in our public space . I welcome the Bill and the amendment before we today . martyn ' s law will not bring back those who be take from we , but it will save life . in do so , it will stand as a lasting tribute to Martyn , Figen and the people of Greater Manchester . the Liberal Democrats be proud to support it . first of all , I thank the hon . and gallant Minister . we all look to he for his guidance and support , which be much appreciated by we as individual on behalf of our constituent . let I put on record my thank to all the police force across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , particularly the Police Service of Northern Ireland for its work to keep we safe . without they we could not operate here , nor could we have protection for our constituent , who we be duty bind to represent in this House . I will not delay the House too long , but I wish to ask two question in relation to the Bill , which be both relate specifically to Northern Ireland . I hope that the House will bear with I for a couple of minute as I illustrate they . I have speak on the Bill several time , and I have always seek to ensure parity of condition throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . lord amendment to clause 32 to 35 in particular seek to remove the UK - wide imposition of polygraph licence condition for terrorist offender . will the Minister confirm that their removal will not leave the psni in Northern Ireland without the mean to watch and assess terrorist as closely as can be do on the mainland and that existing legislation refer to in the amendment be capable of secure protection ? secondly , it be imperative that police force have access to transfer of prisoner . lord amendment 76 have be design to ensure that provision could continue to apply to restrict transfer between Scotland , England , Wales and Northern Ireland for the purpose of determine release . will the Minister confirm that the Government be convince that there can be seamless transfer between all nation in this great United Kingdom when necessary ? if the Minister do not have access to those answer immediately , I be happy for he to come back to I on that , if that be helpful . I would appreciate the answer . those question may not fall within the scope of the debate . with the leave of the House , I call the Minister . I be grateful to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , for the constructive way in which she have approach the debate . I assure she that the Government completely understand that we need to strike a balance , and I hope that she will acknowledge that we have be at pain to consult extensively and work across the House . I be happy to discuss these matter with she far . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) not just for his contribution this evening but for his support of his very special constituent . I be also grateful to the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , and join she in thank Baroness Suttie for the important contribution she make in the other place . I be always grateful to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for his contribution in term of both quantity and quality . in fact , I be think about he just the other day because I have the privilege of visit his part of the world , which be a part of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland that I hold in the high regard . I hold he in that high regard as well . he raise some important point , and I be grateful to he for say that he would be happy for I to write to he about they . to ensure that we address they properly , I will do so . I guarantee that he will get a very good response . the Bill be a manifesto commitment , and I be proud to say that the Government have deliver it , and do so early in the Session . the public rightly deserve to feel safe when visit public premise and attend event , and the cross - party approach to pass the Bill and get it right will demonstrate to the public that nothing matter more than security ; it be the foundation on which everything else rest . I very much hope that this will continue and that the House will support the amendment . I take the opportunity again to thank all of those who have aid in the passage of the Bill . I also take the opportunity to thank Lord Hanson of Flint , my colleague in the other place , whose long experience and sound judgment have be much appreciated . I also thank the excellent team at the Home Office . I be grateful for all their hard work , support and dedication . they have be particularly impressive throughout the Bill ' s passage — they have always go above and beyond — and I be grateful for their service . I want to restate the Government ' s thank to the intelligence agency and all those who serve in law enforcement who work tirelessly around the clock to keep we safe . this be the most vital work , which they do every day , and we as a country owe they a debt of gratitude . finally , there be someone , above all , who we must pay tribute to and that be Figen Murray . her campaign have be nothing short of extraordinary . to have lose her son , Martyn Hett , in the Manchester Arena attack in May 2017 and to have yet still find the strength to drive the campaign forward be both inspiring and phenomenal . I know that all member right across the House will join I in pay tribute to Figen . she previously say , " it ' s time to get this do . " I be very proud to say that this Government have do just that . Lords amendment 1 agree to . lord amendment 2 to 13 agree to . deferred division Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Secretary Jonathan Reynolds relate to term and Conditions of Employment . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . term and Conditions of Employment I beg to move , that the draft National Minimum Wage ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 4 February , be approve . the purpose of the regulation be to increase the national living wage rate and the national minimum wage rate on 1 April 2025 . the regulation be lay in draft before Parliament on 4 February and approve by the other place on 17 March . the Government be commit to make work pay . the plan to make work pay will tackle the low pay , poor working condition and poor job security that have be hold our economy back for far too long . early this month , the House approve passage of the landmark Employment Rights Bill , which will benefit more than 10 million worker in every corner of the country and deliver the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . some aspect of the Bill and accompany legislation and guidance will not come into effect for some time as the Government continue to engage with stakeholder , business and trade union on its implementation . when we take office last year , however , we commit to take immediate action where we could , and on the minimum wage we have do so . one of the proud achievement of the last Labour Government be the creation of the national minimum wage , which eliminate the extreme low pay that be blight our country . we be proud to say that one of the first action take by this Labour Government within a month of last year ' s general election be to overhaul the remit to the Low Pay Commission . for the first time , the remit now explicitly include the cost of live as one of the key factor to be consider when make national living wage recommendation . we have begin the journey towards create a genuine living wage , as well as extend that to all worker age over 18 by move towards a single adult rate . before turn to the precise detail of the regulation , I want to extend my thank to the Low Pay Commission . the commissioner and their official have work diligently and efficiently , particularly after the update to the remit be make , and we be pleased to accept all their recommendation . that be testament to their social partnership model and expert analysis and engagement , which ensure that the Government can deliver on their ambitious agenda , but without adversely impacting on business , the labour market or the wide economy . turn to the detail of the regulation , which , after parliamentary approval , will take effect on 1 April , the national living wage rate , which currently apply to worker age 21 and over , will increase from £ 11 . 44 to £ 12 . 21 . that represent a rise of 77p or 6 . 7 % , which be well above all measure and projection of inflation , therefore deliver real term pay increase to an estimate 3 million worker . we will also be deliver large increase to the other national minimum wage rate . the 18 to 20 - year - old rate will increase by £ 1 . 40 from £ 8 . 60 an hour to £ 10 an hour . that be a record 16 . 3 % increase for that age group . it mean that a full - time worker on the 18 - to - 20 minimum wage rate will see their gross annual earning increase by around £ 2 , 500 a year — a well - earn pay rise and a significant step towards parity with the headline rate . the national minimum wage rate for 18 to 20 - year - old will be equal to 82 % of the national living wage in 2025 , compare with 75 % in 2024 . the minimum wage rate for worker above school leaving age but under 18 year old will increase from £ 6 . 40 to £ 7 . 55 an hour — a large rise of £ 1 . 15 or 18 % . the same rise will apply to the apprenticeship minimum wage rate , which apply to apprentice age under 19 or in the first year of their apprenticeship . finally , the accommodation offset rate , which be the maximum daily amount that an employer can charge a worker for accommodation without it affect their pay for minimum wage purpose , will increase by 6 . 7 % , or 67p , to £ 10 . 66 . I draw member ' attention to the comprehensive impact assessment , which the Department publish alongside this legislation . as they may have note , the impact assessment , which include an equality assessment , have receive a green fit - for - purpose rating from the independent Regulatory Policy Committee . as I have touch on , we estimate that the increase to the minimum wage rate will deliver a direct pay increase for over 3 million worker , while an additional 4 million could benefit from the positive spill - over effect . the minimum wage have greatly reduce pay inequality in the UK , with the share of low - pay job in hourly term estimate at 3 . 4 % in 2024 . that be a record low , and down from 21 . 9 % in 1999 . but the work do not stop there , as we continue to build towards a genuine living wage and the extension of eligibility to worker age between 18 and 20 by end the discriminatory age band . to that end , we will publish in due course a fresh remit to the Low Pay Commission , ask it to recommend minimum wage rate to apply from next April . as part of this , the Low Pay Commission will consult about the appropriate trajectory towards the single adult rate as we ensure that this be deliver without adverse impact on youth employment as well as participation in training and education . like the previous Labour Government , with their creation of the minimum wage over a quarter of a century ago , this Labour Government will be proud to leave a profound legacy for worker ’ right , because we be make work pay and we be proud to make more progress on this by support this instrument today . I commend the regulation to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to say that we will not oppose the increase to the national minimum wage or the national living wage — the national living wage be something that my party introduce to make work pay . we celebrate the fact that progress be make in end low pay , and the Minister cite that from the Dispatch Box this evening . but it be also our duty , as his Majesty ' s official Opposition , to scrutinise the Government on all matter , so I have several question for the Minister this evening . in particular , I want to highlight the fact that the work that the Low Pay Commission have do — for which I also thank it — be do before the Hallowe ' en Budget of broken promise last October . after the increase to the national living and minimum wage in the Budget — but also measure such as the increase to national insurance — the Unison assistant general secretary Jon Richards welcome the increase to the pay measure but say that " as it stand , the new legal minimum be more than the current low hourly rate in the NHS , university and some other public service . this will give employer multiple headache . " so my first question be : what will the Government do to address the pay implication of this rise on those work in the public sector in such important role ? the second question relate to the national minimum wage for worker above school leaving age but not yet 18 go up by nearly 18 % . on 1 April this year , the national insurance threshold for employer drop to £ 5 , 000 per year . this mean that an employer will have to start pay national insurance on any young person if they work for 13 or more hour a week . because of this , business have warn that they be cut back on hire young worker or reduce the hour that they give to they . that risk , of course , be face not solely by those in work , but by those seek to get into work . what assessment have the Minister make since the Hallowe ' en Budget of the impact of the increase on young people ' s ability to access job ? what will the Government do to ensure that young people or those look for a job will not be penalise by this increase ? the increase will significantly affect small and medium - sized enterprise . as usual , it look like they will bear the brunt of the increase labour cost . it look that way not just to we ; accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , sme will face 56 % of the cost of the increase despite represent only 37 % of the share of employment . that be another cost increase on small business , which already have to pay for this Government ' s national insurance job tax , for the hike in business rate , and for the impact of the measure from the Employment Rights Bill . in particular , business in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector be most likely to pay the minimum wage . I remind the House that the Government ' s own impact assessment state that they expect the policy cover within the Bill to impose a direct cost on business of up to £ 5 billion a year . it also note that , on average , those cost will be great for those small business and microbusinesse . will the Minister provide the House with a figure for the total cost increase of employ someone full time on the previous national living wage because of the other change introduce by his government ? the Government have create a challenging business environment . they recognise that themselves when they state in their impact assessment that " there be some evidence of challenge business condition for sme " . around 42 . 7 % and 36 . 8 % of microbusinesse and small business respectively report have less than three month of cash reserve in September 2024 . we support the principle of fair pay for worker and make work pay . however , have listen to business , we be concerned that the rise could impact worker and business in industry already face financial challenge through a range of unintended consequence . it be easy for those in whitehall to squiggle their pen , but all those measure combine have real - life consequence for business across the country . the national insurance job tax and the Employment Rights Bill be pile additional cost on to business and hammer the private sector , which we rely on to grow the economy . in summary , have the Government consider the full impact of all these increase on business that be happen at the same time ? I fear that tomorrow ' s emergency Budget will be another wakeup call . we have hear how the rise in the national minimum wage will deliver a direct pay increase for over 3 million worker . for the first time in history , the minimum wage in this country be be link to the true cost of living , begin the journey of make it a genuine living wage . we can take from history a wealth of economic evidence on the positive impact of minimum wage , which show they lead to overall rise in pay with no significant impact on employment . although I take on board the question of the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , and I appreciate her contribution as a fellow Treasury Committee member , study have show time and again that while similar concern echo throughout the ' 80 and ' 90 , the overall outcome of increase the minimum wage be simply that : an increase in pay with no significant impact on employment . do my hon . friend agree that many of the concern share by the Conservatives be the same as those raise at the time of the introduction of the minimum wage ? yes , that be the case . we have hear such concern raise throughout history , yet when we look at econometric evidence that look in hindsight at the actual impact on the economy , we see that there be no discernible impact . I will whizz through a few different study . in the United States there be David Card and Alan Krueger ' s study , base on the 1992 increase in New Jersey ' s minimum wage , the 1988 rise in California ' s minimum wage and the federal minimum wage increase the follow year . in the European Union there be Tomas Kucera ' s 2017 study from 18 country . in the UK there be Christian van Stolk ' s 2017 study . we can go on and on about the evidence , but we can see from the trend that , although these concern have be raise over time , the outcome be increase in the minimum wage , which be what we be seek to ensure . do my hon . friend agree that these uplift be a huge boost for equality , because they benefit woman , young and old worker , worker with disability and those from minority ethnic background more than other ? I absolutely agree . as the Women ' s Budget Group have show , the measure on the minimum wage in the Employment Rights Bill will disproportionately benefit female worker , who be likely to be pay less than man . these study on the minimum wage use econometric method to confirm what many of we can see in our community at first hand : that too many people have too long be due a pay rise , and when we make the low pay well off , that spending go back into our high street and local economy . I would like to see even more study do , produce well datum . that must start with improvement to the labour force survey , which the hon . member for West Worcestershire and I have discuss on the Treasury Committee , as many organisation have flag that datum as an area of concern . today I want to focus on one particular group of low - pay worker who be very significant for I and my constituency of Earley and Woodley : young people . there be around 13 , 000 undergraduate at the University of Reading , which sit in my constituency , who will be well off because of this new law that raise the minimum wage for 18 to 20 - year - old to £ 10 an hour . it will mean a record wage boost for that age group , who will see their gross annual earning rise by £ 2 , 500 , and for apprentice , too , who be the skilled worker of tomorrow . I support the Government ' s youth guarantee , to ensure that all young people be in education , employment or training . the King ' s Trust have find that one in 10 young people outside of education , employment or training have turn down a job because they could not afford the cost associate with it — for example , travel , clothing or childcare . for many young people , a barrier to employment be that it do not pay well enough for they . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . I be concern by what I think I hear the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) say about the rate at which the living wage be pay to young people , almost advocate for a reduction in that rate because of the impact it would have on business . do my hon . friend agree that be a rather regressive view , give that what young people need be the ability to pay their bill , live a life they enjoy and build a home for themselves in the future ? I very much agree with that sentiment . young people be the future , and to ensure they get off to the good possible start in life , they need work that pay and enable they to live in stability , not concerned about pay the bill from day to day or month to month . Most young people nowadays have to do a mixture of work and education or training to make end meet . More than half of full - time student be work long hour in pay job in 2024 , which be a significant rise from 2021 , during the pandemic , when two third have no term - time employment . that have be drive by the escalate cost of live for young people , and especially rise in rent . I want to quote a constituent of mine call Poppy , who be 20 year old and study at the University of Reading . she say : " work part - time be never optional but rather a necessity . . . with my wage be so low … I find myself work 20 - 25 hour a week — lead I to miss some lecture and seminar throughout the month " . I want to ensure that young people such as Poppy be able to study without worry about how they be go to pay their bill . we also know that young people be less unionised , which mean they have less bargaining power and less ability to fight against unfair term or ask for pay rise , so it be even more important that we support they by raise the minimum wage . in conclusion , it be essential that we make work pay , for the sake of our high street , our living standard and our future — our young people . Poppy say : " I personally can not wait for the new minimum wage increase in April as it mean I should be able to reduce my hour at work , give I more time to focus on my study " . for people like Poppy , in my constituency and across the UK , the new deal for work people be transformational , and I be very glad to support today ' s motion . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . let I begin by thank the Government for lay this important statutory instrument . the Liberal Democrats welcome this uplift in the minimum wage . we all have constituent who we know be struggle to make end meet . nobody should be in a position where they can not pay their bill despite be in employment . I be particularly pleased that apprentice and those under 18 will benefit from increase pay under this instrument . in a few week ' time , I will join Wilshire College student and business across my constituency at a career fair , and this will be an important piece of legislation to share with they . my constituency be rural , and many of the people I represent be elderly and depend on the social care system to stay independent . unfortunately , they be struggle to get the care they need and deserve , in part because care worker be not be pay properly . if we pay care staff more , we might encourage more people into that hugely understaffed sector . in south - west England alone there be 13 , 000 vacant job , and in a rural constituency such as mine , where public transport be expensive and unreliable , care staff be not compensate for their travel time , and they often end up bring home less than the minimum wage . while I share the official Opposition ' s concern about small business , of which my constituency have a huge number , it be important that low - pay worker earn enough to live , especially our young people and woman . if the Government be to adopt the liberal Democrat proposal for a carer ' s minimum wage , which would see carer receive £ 2 more per hour than the current minimum wage , a staggering 850 , 000 care worker across the UK would benefit from that increase in pay , and over 80 % of they would be woman . we understand that the carer ' s minimum wage be not a silver bullet , but it be serious proposal that could make a big difference to patient and family across the country . although the Liberal Democrats support increase the minimum wage , it be a shame that this statutory instrument do not go far and give weight to that proposal . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a member of the Unison trade union . when the national minimum wage come into force on 1 April 1999 , I be work as a trade union official in Unison ' s northern region , represent many low - pay member of staff who be work in social care and other sector in the north - east , and with colleague in the TUC , who in many case be on even low wage . that fantastic achievement come after 30 year of fighting in the face of huge opposition at the time from the conservative party , but after 26 year of the national minimum wage , I think we can say that the argument have be definitively win — so much so that there be member of this House who have never know a time without a statutory minimum wage . on 10 April 1999 , I be proud to don a high - vis vest and join my trade union colleague and member on a march across the Tyne bridge from Gateshead to Newcastle . that be part of the campaign for a living wage to celebrate the introduction of the national minimum wage , and to argue for it to be improve . we be lead by the then general secretary of Unison , Rodney Bickerstaffe , and I well remember a photograph in our local newspaper as we prepare for the march , with an AA sign direct traffic that say , " campaign for a living wage — long delay expect . " well , we have continue to campaign for a living wage since that time . I be so glad to speak here today , with a Labour Government again in power , make real progress towards a real living wage . the change we be make with this legislation will mean a direct , real - term pay increase for over 3 million worker . that include step towards a single adult rate , with a record increase in the minimum wage for 18 to 20 - year - old , amount to £ 2 , 500 per year , as well as direction to the Low Pay Commission to look at the cost of live in its future decision . back in 1999 , when the national minimum wage be first introduce , it make such a difference to so many people in the north - east . similarly , I know that the legislation we be pass today will make a huge difference to my constituent . let I be clear that my ambition be for good , well - pay job for people in the north - east . my constituent and people in our region deserve decent pay and secure work , and I will continue to work towards that . meanwhile , for those on minimum wage , this legislation will mean more money in their pay packet , which be a real labour achievement . take with our Employment Rights Bill , that mean there will be a real shift for work people across the country and in my region . increase to the national living wage and national minimum wage will always be support by Scottish National party member . indeed , we have be push for the UK Government to adopt the real living wage for those of all age since 2011 . disappointingly , we have to continue to do so , as the Labour party have fail to take the opportunity to do that , now that it be in government . while we support the change that be be introduce today , the SNP ' s position be clear : we want the real living wage for all worker , not just a politically convenient definition of the living wage that fall short of meet the actual cost of living , and not just for those who be 21 and over . the Resolution Foundation have the real living wage set at £ 12 . 60 , whereas this regulation increase the national living wage for worker age 21 or over from £ 11 . 44 to £ 12 . 21 per hour . it be evidently still short of where it need to be . furthermore , for those age between 18 and 21 , the national living wage be 18 % low , at £ 10 per hour . give that the Minister today say that there would be a consultation look at the cost of living , can he tell I if rent be 18 % low for those under 21 ? do 18 - year - old get a special rate on their electricity bill , or on petrol for their car ? do supermarket give they an 18 % discount ? on that point , will the hon . member give way ? I will not , as I would like to make this point very clear , because it be important . the answer to my question be obviously no . while I welcome the Minister ' s comment that the national living wage may be look at next year , and may be increase so that there be parity for everybody , we be not there yet . I would like the Government to go far , and I look forward to hear more about how they will consult on do so next year . it be worth note that in Scotland , the SNP Government have take proactive step to ensure that the real living wage be implement wherever we have control , particularly in our public sector . the Scottish Government have pay all staff within their pay scheme , include NHS staff , the real living wage since 2011 — that is 14 year ago . Scotland have the high proportion of employee pay the living wage of any nation in the UK , with 25 % of accredited real living wage employer in the UK base there . the Scottish Government be also provide funding to enable adult social care worker to be pay the living wage , benefit up to 40 , 000 care worker , and they be work to ensure that all staff in private nursery deliver our childcare pledge be pay the real living wage , too . the Labour Government should demonstrate similar willingness to tackle the scourge of low pay . in their manifesto , they pledge to make change in line with the real living wage , and to take into account the cost of living , but they have fail , at least today , to do so . they be vote in with a mantra of change , and it be in their power to legislate for the introduction of the real living wage for all , but so far , they have choose not to . they must go far and adopt the living wage for people irrespective of their age , as the SNP have call on successive government to do for the past 14 year . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and to my trade union membership . I welcome today ' s move by the Government to bring a record pay boost of around £ 1 , 400 to over 3 million worker . the measure will also mean a record wage boost for 18 to 20 - year - old , who will see their gross annual full - time earning rise by £ 2 , 500 . for apprentice , the skilled worker of tomorrow , there will be a boost of 18 % , so that they can learn their trade with well financial security . why be all of that important ? because when I visit food bank in my constituency in Doncaster , I have be sadden to learn that some of the people access those service be in work , yet still can not make end meet . for too long in this country , work have not pay , but with this legislation , that will change . we hear a lot about the tough choice that this Government have have to make after the 14 year of Conservative Government , whether because of the Conservatives ' disastrous mini - Budget , which leave mortgage soar ; the neglect of our prison , which be allow to fill up to the point of collapse ; or the lack of investment in our NHS . this Labour Government have take a number of very difficult decision to get our country back on track , but I can tell hon . member that it have not be a tough choice to give million of worker a pay rise . it have not be a tough choice to ensure that our apprentice have well financial security — in fact , it be a choice that I be proud to make ; it show that this Government value worker across the country and value the work contribution of young adult from the age of 18 . this measure , along with our landmark Employment Rights Bill , will mean that it will once again pay to work in this country , and secure employment will be the foundation of the british economy , which will be strong go forward . the increase in the national minimum wage in the next fortnight be very welcome . nobody in work in this wealthy country of our should be struggle to make end meet . while that uplift be a step in the right direction , it do not address the challenge that we face in social care , both nationally and in Devon , the area that I know well . Devon have 28 , 000 fill social care position , but 2 , 000 position remain unfilled , and I be very concerned about that shortage in the workforce . it partly explain why people be go without care , and why our hospital be struggle to discharge patient . I take the hon . member ' s point about the social care sector . do he therefore welcome labour ' s Employment Rights Bill , which include a negotiating framework for our social care staff , to ensure that they be properly pay and can progress in their job ? I think a negotiating framework might be helpful , but a lot will depend on the negotiation . it would be far well if the Government look at the minimum wage , sector by sector , and identify social care as a special case . the turnover rate for social care staff in Devon be 27 % . that be not only high than the national average , but roughly double the figure for other sector . that be why I want a separate , high minimum wage for social care . a strike 16 % of social care worker cite low pay as the primary reason why they leave the job . many of they be simply not pay enough for the skilled , difficult and vital work they do , and many be earn more by move into job such as stack supermarket shelf — important though that be — than by do the vital work of social care . in a rural county such as Devon , people have to travel long distance between the people for whom they care , which sometimes mean that their real income be less than the national minimum wage . we in Devon be look at a shortage of social care bed . Devon county council project that by 2027 , Devon will face a shortfall of 270 care home bed for old people with complex need . look far ahead , the situation get bad . by 2033 , in Honiton , the unmet need will be 72 care bed ; in Cullompton , the need will be 79 care bed . in Seaton and Ottery St Mary , an additional 40 care bed will be require by then . the shortage of facility in mid and east Devon make it plain that even more care worker will be require to meet the grow demand for social care . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for the introduction of a carer ' minimum wage , £ 2 per hour more than the minimum wage . of course , that funding can not come from thin air . accord to Skills for Care , increase pay by between £ 1 and £ 2 per hour above the national minimum wage for care worker could save up to £ 947 million from reduced hospital admission , but there would need to be some funding up front to make that happen . I suggest that the remain funding come from an additional tax on the gambling industry , which , accord to Public Health England , cost the UK economy about £ 1 . 4 billion annually due to the financial , physical and mental impact of problem gambling and the result crime and loss of productivity . accord to the Gambling Commission , 300 , 000 adult and 40 , 000 child in the UK suffer from problem gambling . it be not an industry that we should be incentivise through low taxation . double the remote gaming duty be recommend by the Social Market Foundation . that would not only address the harm of problem gambling , but be a fair way of funding that £ 2 per hour increase above the national minimum wage for social care worker . it be time that the Government act to ensure that those who profit from gambling contribute more to the public good . increase pay for the lowest - pay social care worker be a simple , effective step to attract and retain staff , and ensure that people in our community receive the care that they require . I support the national minimum wage increase , but we must go far and pay our social care staff more , recognise their vital role in look after the elderly and vulnerable . I strongly welcome the propose increase to minimum wage rate , which will help people of all age across all community in our country . there be a particularly welcome boost for apprentice , who be the future of our economy . those increase will make a real difference to people in my constituency and across our great nation , for three reason . first , as colleague have say , we must make work pay ; that be vital for the health of our economy . it be crucial that we ensure that those who contribute to our economic growth , deliver service in our community , and manufacture the good that we need be fairly reward , but for too long , that have not be the case in my constituency , or in other area . between 2014 and 2022 , salary growth in County Durham be among the low in the United Kingdom , increase at less than half the rate of the growth in region such as London . to tackle these issue , we need to drive economic growth in region like mine , but we also need clear action to ensure that those on the low wage see the growth in their pay that they deserve . secondly , it be crucial that we tackle the cost of living crisis . in the two and a half year I spend campaign as a labour candidate before be elect to this House , the cost of living crisis be raise with I time and again . family after family have be hit by rise bill but flatline pay . that issue affect my local resident particularly acutely , because median weekly pay for those in full - time work in my constituency be £ 150 less a week than the UK average — that be £ 600 a month less to pay the bill and make end meet . that be why it be so vital that this time , the Government have take the cost of live into account when set minimum wage level . thirdly , we must support growth . if we be to grow our economy , route into work — include apprenticeship , entry - level job and other route into start a career — must be attractive . a key part of that be have pay level that reward those go into work and incentivise participation in the labour market . for young people in my constituency , get a job with decent pay have too often mean move away from the town they grow up in . that be another reason why this direct action to tackle low pay be so important . as the representative of a constituency with a significant history of manufacturing , include modern manufacturing , such as in the fantastic Hitachi train factory , I particularly welcome the wage increase for 18 to 20 - year - old , and for those on apprenticeship . it will ensure that young people go into work , who be the future of our country ' s manufacturing sector , be pay properly , and that a secure future be possible locally . I come into politic to make a genuine difference to the people of my home town of Newton Aycliffe , the wide constituency , and our country . increase the minimum wage be one way to do that , put more money into the pocket of 3 million of our citizen . that be the difference a Labour Government make . this Government have make a solid commitment to make work pay and put more money into work people ' s pocket . in my constituency , we have a large number of distribution job , and as a result of this Government ' s action , people in Kettering on the minimum wage will have more money in their pocket to last they through to the end of the month . have spend my career in business , I know how important it be for business to have a productive , motivated workforce with minimal turnover . that benefit not only business but worker . in Kettering , it mean that people earn a decent wage will spend their money support our local economy . it be shameful that the conservative party let this country get to a place where people who work full time be queue at food bank to feed their family . the uplift in the national minimum wage be a huge part of the national renewal that Labour have promise this country , and will mean a pay increase for 3 million people in Kettering and across the UK . young people in my constituency deserve a minimum wage that reflect the work they do . I speak to many 18 to 20 - year - old in Kettering who face the same financial pressure as adult old than they . one of the good thing about my job be visit many school and college across my constituency , where young people talk to I about their plan for their future . this uplift will mean a wage boost of 18 % for apprenticeship in Kettering , so that we can incentivise young people to see apprenticeship as a financially viable option and start to fill the skill gap that business across the UK face after 14 difficult year under the Conservatives . the last Labour Government bring in the national minimum wage , and it be this Labour Government who will secure Britain ' s future and make work pay . I start by declare an interest as a proud member of the GMB and Unison union . this be a debate about four number : 3 million , £ 1 , 400 , £ 2 , 500 and 10 million . three million be the number of people who will benefit from the fantastic measure be announce today ; £ 1 , 400 be how much they will benefit — a real life - change amount — while £ 2 , 500 be how much someone age 18 to 20 year old will benefit from these change and 10 million be the number of people whose life will see a transformative impact from our Employment Rights Bill . all of that be be achieve by a Labour Government , with our plan for change deliver security for work people , but so much of it be oppose by the Conservatives . on a day when we be debate give a pay rise to 3 million people , it be strike and speak volume that the Opposition Benches be completely empty . that be the difference between the Government and the Conservatives . that pay rise be the difference that a Labour Government make . the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) just try slightly to rewrite history , but I be old enough to remember the pre - minimum wage era and who bring it to an end : a Labour Government . the introduction of the national minimum wage be a radical and transformative step , and it be oppose every step of the way by the Conservatives . when Labour include a policy for a minimum wage in our 1992 manifesto , Michael Howard claim that it would destroy up to 2 million job . when we bring it to this place as legislation in 1998 , the Conservatives fight it tooth and nail every single step of the way . the Conservatives ' concern turn out to be totally unfounded . it be a pointless opposition to measure that increase the wage of more than a million worker immediately in the UK , as the evidence from my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) point out . indeed , the shadow Chancellor at the time , now well know for his railway journey , eventually end Tory opposition to the minimum wage , say : " the minimum wage have cause less damage to employment than we fear . " how different the picture look today . we have a Leader of the opposition who recently say that the minimum wage be " overburden " business and that maternity pay be " excessive " . in an article for ConservativeHome , the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) say that our measure to boost employment right and make work pay would have a negative effect on business , " especially in low - wage sector like hospitality and retail " . perhaps the shadow Chancellor do not realise that the entire point of these measure be to bring these worker — in particular , young worker — out of low pay , to improve retention , to keep people in work and to boost our economy . the low - wage , low - growth economy that the Conservatives preside over for 14 year bring with it stagnation and a grow number of people who either leave employment or never enter it in the first place . give that , we all know where we stand . I will wrap up by say that this measure represent a choice . our choice be to increase the minimum wage and put money back in the pocket of work people . it be a choice to put people first . it will help thousand of people in Hendon and million of people across this country , and it be a choice I be proud to support . may I begin by declare an interest as a member and former employee of Unison ? I know that its young member will welcome the unprecedented rise in the minimum wage for 18 to 20 - year - old . as we have already hear , it will add £ 2 , 500 a year to their gross salary . this be a record change , and it will make a huge difference for young constituent of mine . moreover , the Labour Government have make it clear that this be only the start of a journey . we be work towards increase the youth rate so that we eventually have a single adult rate . equal pay for equal work have long be a belief of the Labour party , and it be right that that also extend to young people , but I be delighted that this Labour Government will also deliver for disabled and black , asian and minority ethnic worker , and that we have embark on a consultation on the introduction of mandatory pay gap reporting in respect of those worker . the change in the youth rate , in particular , go hand in hand with our youth guarantee and our plan to create pathway to good - quality employment for those under 22 with health condition , whom the last Government leave on the scrapheap with no help at all . labour will ensure not only that those young people be help to find job , but that those job be decently pay . we will make work a well choice than benefit for young people . as I say early , the decision that we be make today be the beginning of a journey . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , say that the Conservatives would not vote against the motion , although I must say that in her speech she give a very good impression of someone who be against it . in my view , if the Conservatives do not agree with it they should vote against it , and should tell we how much they think young people be worth . they should tell we whether we should pay they £ 10 an hour . they should tell we whether £ 12 . 21 be the minimum wage that they would pay . they should let we know by how much they would cut people ' s wage . in contrast , the Labour Government be proud to be put money back into 3 million work people ' s pocket — money that they will spend with local business and in local high street . after 14 year of failure from the Conservatives , Labour be make work pay . with the leave of the House , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will begin by address the many contribution that be make to what I think be , overall , a very positive debate . I welcome the support of the Liberal Democrats , and also welcome the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) to the Chamber : it be good to see she back in her place . she make some important point about the social care sector . we know that the abuse of travel time reimbursement be a huge issue . the Low Pay Commission be keen to look into it , and I be sure that once the fair work agency be up and run , it will focus on it as well . the hon . Lady ' s colleague , the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , also talk about the importance of that sector . our impact assessment have establish that about one in five social care worker will receive a direct pay rise as a result of the increase announce today . as would be expect , before make its recommendation the Low Commission have consult widely with , among other , representative of social care worker . we believe that they have be undervalue for far too long , which be why we be introduce the first ever fair pay agreement in the adult social care sector so that care professional be recognise and reward for the important work that they do . while I appreciate the hon . member ' s wish for a separate rate for care worker , we think we be take the right measure to recognise and value they . the operation of different rate bring a range of challenge relate to enforcement and to clarity for employer , which we think be important . there be , I have to say , a number of excellent speech from the Labour Benches . my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) make the positive economic case and refer to the wealth of evidence in support of increase in the minimum wage . on the Labour Benches , we passionately believe that increase protection at work and increase in the minimum wage be good not just for individual but for the wide economy . she mention the many young people in her constituency who will benefit from the move to parity for the 18 to 20 age band with the adult rate . my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) have great knowledge and experience in this area . she say that this be the beginning of the journey . that be right . we recognise that it will take time to achieve our ambition for the Low Pay Commission for the people in this country , but it be a journey we be determined to finish . my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) take we back into the depth of history . I must declare that I be one of those who can remember what it be like before the minimum wage . when I tell my child how much I use to earn in my first job , they can not believe it . but it be true : that be what the world be like before the minimum wage . she also remind we of the doom - laden warning we get from the Conservative Opposition at the time . we hear a small echo of that tonight , but I think history have prove that those warning be wrong . my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) speak passionately about the issue with in - work poverty , which be one of the key thing that we must change in this country . for too long , people have not have work pay for they . earning have not keep up with the cost of live and that be one of the reason why the Low Pay Commission ' s remit have change . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way . the Low Pay Commission previously say that about 300 , 000 people be not be pay the minimum wage despite be on it — they be be underpaid . will he update the House on the Government ' s progress to ensure that all people on the minimum wage be pay the minimum wage ? my hon . friend make a very important point that those right be only as good as the ability of the Government to enforce they . as we know , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have a very effective system to deliver on the minimum wage and we will shortly be release our late round of name and shame of those employer who have not do the right thing . we hope that the fair work agency , when it be establish , will be even more effective at deliver fairness across the country and ensure that everyone get the minimum wage they deserve . we know there be particular sector where there be acute challenge . I turn to the point make by the Scottish National party spokesperson , the hon . member for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) , about the bill and cost of an 18 - year - old be the same as those for an adult . that be something I absolutely understand . it be why we change the Low Pay Commission ' s remit to ensure that we eventually get parity for that age group on the full adult rate . it be also why we have change the remit of the Low Pay Commission to move towards a real living wage for all adult . we understand that that be such an important thing for we to deliver on . he may feel that we be not quite there yet , and we must ensure we take evidence as we go along from business on how it impact on particular sector and particular part of society , but 18 to 20 - year - old be get a £ 2 , 500 pay rise this year as a result of the regulation . that be something I be sure he will welcome . my hon . friend the Member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) raise very well the regional impact of the wage increase in his part of the world . it be the case that the regulation will mean 140 , 000 worker in the north - east , or 14 . 5 % of the total workforce in that region , will benefit from the increase . we should all be absolutely delighted about that . my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) also raise in - work poverty . that be why the remit be be change . we want to ensure that in - work poverty be consign to the history book . my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) set out in stark term the figure associate with the regulation . I may mention they again at some point before I finish . they be the bold number that will go directly into people ' s pocket and that we can show as tangible proof of a Labour Government deliver for work people . my hon . Friend also raise the matter of the empty Opposition Benches . I do not want to equate that with meaning that the Conservatives do not support these increase , as I think the shadow Minister , the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , say that they do . I do put she on notice , though , that her party leader have be less than full in her support for the minimum wage , so I hope that the shadow Minister ' s support for today ' s measure have not damage her career prospect . it may well be that there be another leader in a few month anyway , and that thing will be look up . we do hope that the Conservatives continue to support the minimum wage as we move forward and that they do not change tack now that they have enter opposition . however , the shadow Minister do raise a number of important question , which I will now try to address . she raise the impact on public sector worker . of course , pay for most frontline worker be set through pay review body process , which do take account of national living wage increase as part of their process . we do not believe that many public sector worker will be directly affect by this change , but it be something the Departments will take into account when they set their budget . the shadow Minister also ask about the cumulative impact of the change . the impact assessment do show that this year ' s uprating will represent a 0 . 14 % increase in the UK - wide wage bill , which I think be incredibly good value for what we be deliver into people ' s pocket . of course , the total impact of the Employment Rights Bill be , at most , 0 . 4 % of the total wage bill . the hon . Lady raise question about burden on sme . the Low Pay Commission do take into account the impact on business as part of its operation . it look at the competitiveness of individual business , the labour market and the wide economy , draw on extensive labour market pay analysis and stakeholder evidence when recommend rate , and we would expect the commission to do exactly the same next year . small business have , of course , have support from this Government . we have increase the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 , mean that 865 , 000 employer will pay no national insurance contribution at all , and more than half of employer will gain or see no change from this measure . we have also extend business rate relief for the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . the hon . Lady raise concern about the impact of the measure on young people . the youth guarantee will ensure that every young person have access to education or training to help they to find a job , and we be transform the apprenticeship levy to ensure that young people get the opportunity they deserve . the shadow Minister raise concern about the overall labour market . I would just make the point that payroll employment be actually high now than it be this time last year , and the late labour force survey last week show record number of people in work . perhaps the negative headline that we have be see be not actually the reality of the situation . I like to deal with fact , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the fact be that these regulation will put more money into the pocket of worker around the country — around 200 , 000 worker in Scotland , 160 , 000 worker in Northern Ireland and 150 , 000 worker in Wales . this will make a real difference to people : £ 1 , 400 for a full - time worker and £ 2 , 500 for someone on the 18 - to - 20 rate . this be truly a worthwhile exercise , and we thank the Low Pay Commission for its work , as well as HMRC , which enforce on behalf of the Department , and ACAS , which offer impartial advice and expertise to ensure that workplace dispute can be resolve and worker ’ right can be uphold . this be a meaningful change be deliver by this government that deliver a powerful message : this Government , and indeed this Parliament , be commit to make work pay . these real - term increase to the minimum wage will end insecurity at work . I commend these regulation to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft National Minimum Wage ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before the House on 4 February , be approve . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Payment Scheme that the draft Infected Blood Compensation Scheme Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 12 February , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . with the leave of the House , I will put motion 11 and 12 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Church of England ( General Synod ) ( measure ) [ relevant document : 246th Report of the Ecclesiastical Committee , Chancel Repair ( Church Commissioners ' Liability ) measure ; Church Funds Investment Measure , HC 771 . ] that the Chancel Repair ( Church Commissioners ' Liability ) measure ( HC 773 ) , pass by the General Synod of the Church of England , be present to his Majesty for his Royal Assent in the form in which it be lay before Parliament . that the Church Funds Investment Measure ( HC 772 ) , pass by the General Synod of the Church of England , be present to his Majesty for his Royal Assent in the form in which it be lay before Parliament . — ( Marsha de Cordova . ) question agree to . Financial Assistance Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that this House authorise the Secretary of State to undertake to pay , and to pay by way of financial assistance under section 8 of the Industrial Development Act 1982 , a grant or grant exceed £ 30 million and up to a total of £ 129 million to BioNTech UK Limited to support their plan expansion of Research and Development and Artificial Intelligence activity in the UK over the next 10 year . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . Petition Petition - dualle the A66 I rise to present a petition on behalf of 2 , 247 of my constituent who call on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to urgently give the go - ahead to plan to dual the A66 from Penrith to Scotch Corner . they declare that this would bring " huge benefit to the north West region , reduce congestion and provide a big boost to the north economy ; far note that it will limit the number of serious and fatal accident which tragically be a regular occurrence on this road . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to give the green light to plan to dual the A66 between Penrith and Scotch Corner , which would reduce congestion , boost the economy , and save life . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Westmorland and Lonsdale , declare that give the go - ahead to plan to dual the A66 from Penrith to Scotch Corner would bring huge benefit to the north West region , reduce congestion and provide a big boost to the north economy ; further note that it will limit the number of serious and fatal accident which tragically be a regular occurrence on this road . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to give the green light to plan to dual the A66 between Penrith and Scotch Corner , which would reduce congestion , boost the economy , and save life . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003054 ] Veterinary Products in Waterways Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) I be delighted to secure my first Adjournment debate , and for it to be about veterinary product in waterway , specifically neonicotinoids such as fipronil and imidacloprid . from now on , for your sake and mine , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall be refer to these neonicotinoid as neonics . I have be extremely keen to secure a debate on this matter for some time now , have have it raise with I before the general election by a constituent , Ueli Zellweger , who be a vet . it be high time that we give this topic the scrutiny that it so desperately need . we be a nation of pet lover . it be estimate that there be around 25 million cat and dog in the UK . I speak as a doting dog and cat owner myself and I know that our furry friend be an integral part of million of british family . and so when flea and tick come bite , bring discomfort and annoyance to our beloved pet , we of course want to act swiftly and efficiently to alleviate their suffering . flea treatment product contain fipronil and imidacloprid be see as a highly convenient and effective way of deal with the problem cause by flea and tick . in the UK , Imperial College London claim that fipronil be an ingredient in 396 different pet anti - flea and tick treatment , with imidacloprid authorise in some 138 veterinary product . however , this convenience come at a cost to our waterway and associated ecosystem . Popular though these product be , safe they be not . these two ingredient be extremely toxic . they be very powerful killer indeed and the picture be not pretty . in fact , so powerful be these chemical that just one drop of fipronil have the potency to wipe out 30 , 000 bee as well as cause serious neurological damage and hamper the mobility of thousand upon thousand more . as well as this , accord to extensive research conduct by Imperial College London , one monthly flea treatment for a large dog contain enough imidacloprid to kill a staggering 25 million bee . the decline in pollinator population , which in part can be attribute to the use of imidacloprid , threaten agricultural productivity and have very serious long - term implication for our national food security . this be not simply a mere triviality to be neglect . authority have recognise the toxicity level and the hideous harm that these chemical can cause on the natural world . since 2017 , fipronil have be ban in agricultural use , and imidacloprid have be ban since 2018 . but give the unregulated nature of these chemical in relation to flea product , we be allow these product into our environment through the back door , and our aquatic and nearby ecosystem be pay the price . there be not just one route for these neonic to enter our british waterway . it be important to be aware of all the various pathway towards this pollution . the most obvious , and most direct , be simply the contact of pet with water body themselves . if a dog go swim in a river after receive their course of treatment , the product be then introduce into the waterway , allow it to enter our river , lake and stream and go wherever the water take it , wreak havoc as it travel . dissemination can also occur because of rainwater run - off , with residual product wash off from treat animal into drainage system and end up in our waterway . equally , the washing of pet bed and even pet owner ' hand be think to be common way in which these dangerous product enter our waterway . there be some less direct pathway that still pose a problem — and at this point I must apologise to those currently eat their supper . these product be generally harmless to our dog and cat , but they can be absorb by our four - legged friend . once absorb , the product can be excrete , and even when responsible owner clean up after their pet — something that be not universal , unfortunately — the trace of fipronil and imidacloprid leave behind can still prove incredibly damaging once wash into our waterway . study have reveal that imidacloprid be one of the most frequently detect pesticide in dog ' urine , but the level be still comparatively low , with the National Office of Animal Health finding that only around 11 % of topically apply fipronil be systematically absorb . the shedding of treat hair or skin can also lead to a pathway be create . once these product be in our waterway , not only be they utterly deadly for the thousand of native aquatic organism in the UK , but they be highly toxic to sea and freshwater fish . even at low concentration , fipronil can be disruptive to aquatic life cycle . river sample datum gather by the UK Environment Agency over the course of a two - year period between 2016 and 2018 from 20 different waterway in England discover fipronil residue in 98 % of freshwater sample and trace of imidacloprid in 66 % of all sample . beyond the effect on our waterway , other study have find fipronil to be incredibly toxic to bird . it bring I no joy to report that this be not just an aquatic problem . indeed , through a process of collect 103 different bird nest , researcher find that every single one without exception contain fipronil , and an overwhelming majority have significant remnant of imidacloprid . the truth be that the decline in aquatic insect that emanate from the flowing of these product in our waterway affect fish population , who rely on these insect as a primary food source . this in turn impact bird specie that prey on fish , produce a dangerous snowball effect that reverberate throughout the ecosystem . this deterioration of biodiversity greatly diminish the overall resilience of our ecosystem , expose a vulnerability to factor of climate change and invasive specie . one of the most troubling aspect of the like of fipronil and imidacloprid be their persistence in the environment . the chemical disintegrate slowly and can remain in soil and waterway for extensive period of time . in the case of imidacloprid , scientist say that the residual effect last in soil for month , sometimes even year , and the breakdown product of these chemical be understand to be even more toxic than the parent compound . do the hon . Member agree that some pet owner may not be aware of how bad this issue be , and so packaging , usage guidance and point - of - sale advice for pet treatment should give some warning of the danger that the product could affect aquatic life if it ever enter watercourse ? I be come on to that later , but the hon . member be absolutely right . it be also important to note that the economic cost of mitigate the environmental and health impact of these chemical be substantial . would the hon . Lady give way ? with pleasure — and happy birthday . I commend the hon . Lady on bring this issue forward . she be right to outline the problem with fipronil and what it can do to our water , but there be many other thing that can affect water . Northern Ireland Water go around all the farm provide a free service collect herbicide , weed killer , sheep dip , insecticide spray , rodenticide , fungicide spray , veterinary medicine and empty container . take all those thing out of the country and away from the waterway and we can make our water clean . this issue be not just about the specific chemical that the hon . Lady mention ; there be many other thing that need to be remove as well . do she agree with that ? I thank the hon . member for his interesting intervention . I agree , and I will talk about farmer in particular in a moment . it be also important to note that the economic cost of mitigate the environmental and health impact of these chemical be substantial . water bill be set to rise precipitously this year , cause pain to the average consumer . in Tiverton and Minehead , rise of 20 % and 32 % have be announce by the two water company that supply we . Purifying contaminate waterway and restore the ecosystem blight by those chemical require significant financial resource , place a burden on community and strain local government purse . how much of that financial impact be reflect in these bill rise ? be consumer face price rise in their water bill because we be not effectively regulate problem product such as neonic ? we know that there be an issue with our water quality — the issue at Dunster beach and Blue Anchor in my constituency spring to mind . that be why the Government pass the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 — and why my party leader fall into windermere several time during the general election campaign to raise awareness . when will we clean up our act and put in place the firm restriction on these pollute water company ? when will we look at what we can do to stop other pollutant from get anywhere near our waterway in the first place ? I will be interested to hear from the Minister whether this cost have be factor into the Government ' s think on this issue , and whether there could be some answer to the question I have pose . on a broad note , I will touch on how we can help our farmer and those in our rural community with these environmental challenge . our waterway make up a key part of our natural biodiversity , but each part rely on the other . that make the recent decision to axe the sustainable farming incentive scheme all the more worrying and damaging to our rural community . if there be not the money for sustainable farming , agricultural practice will naturally follow economic sense , if not the careful environmental custodianship on which our farmer pride themselves . farmer be suffer at the hand of this government , and with they so suffer our environment . will the Minister take this opportunity to reassure the House that her colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be do everything they can to support our farmer as they balance the agricultural and environmental need of the land ? will she also ensure that due consideration be give to the restoration of the SFI scheme , so that we can keep make progress on our environmental goal , hand in hand with farmer , and not be distract from the harm of damage product such as the neonic that I have be talk about by lose our much need local and rural ally ? I be aware that this speech have be slightly doom and gloom , but I will now turn to what we can do as an alternative . research have show that the like of coconut oil , citronella oil , good old lavender and eucalyptus provide good natural and , most importantly , non - toxic alternative for flea and tick repellent . the market be awash with collar for cat and dog infuse with these essential oil , which be both practical and natural . there have be very little emphasis on these solution . we should be do much more to promote the benefit of these chemical - free remedy . as see in recent development in Switzerland , where the Government be carry out water testing , there be a clear need for environmental impact assessment of the use of fipronil and imidacloprid . these should be launch as a matter of urgency , and I would welcome the Minister ' s reflection on this point . we Liberal Democrats have call for any emergency authorisation of neonic to be revoke , and for the introduction of tight restriction on their use . I invite the Minister to comment on the state of play and whether there be a serious appetite in the Government to address this issue . it be clear that we have a serious challenge on our hand . as the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) say , these product be advertise widely and sell ubiquitously . I be not blind to the fact that these product have bring undeniable benefit in pest control , but their unintended consequence serve as a stark reminder of the need for sustainable and nature - friendly practice . I genuinely believe that there be a desire to do more to regulate these highly toxic chemical . lawmaker be right to impose a blanket ban on fipronil and imidacloprid in agricultural setting in 2017 and 2018 . the will should be there to ensure that these product can not be allow to continue damage our freshwater ecosystem . further regulation be the only way forward to remove harmful contaminant and arrest the degradation of aquatic fauna in this country ' s waterway . the Government also need to go far and fast in regulate our waterway and the water company damage they overall . the Water ( Special Measures ) Act be a good first step , but the Government can and must do more . ofwat be fail in its duty . the time have come for a new clean water authority to replace it as we up our game in protect our precious waterway . I see no reason why reform design to keep neonic out of our waterway can not come hand in hand with our push to keep sewage and other contaminant and pollutant out of our waterway . in the short term , for neonic , restriction should be place on the trade of fipronil and imidacloprid , with the only exception to their continue use come under strict condition of prescription only by veterinary medical professional and for a limited time period . we know that Amazon and the over - the - counter market in pet store can lead to the propagation of those product in our natural environment , so restriction would make some sense . when the time allow , a ban for all other usage should certainly be in the Government ' s scope . it be clear that decisive action must be take on this matter . could the Minister shed some light on whether the Government would be willing to assess the potential merit of move in that direction ? from all that I have see , that appear the prudent — and perhaps only — direction to take . it be , as always , a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) on secure the debate , and I especially congratulate she on her first Adjournment debate in the House . I be sure that it will be the first of many — and probably the first of many regard water , so we might get use to see each other on such evening . obviously , we can not miss the opportunity to congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on his birthday . I be sure that I speak for the entire House when I say that I hope he have have a wonderful day . an Adjournment debate would not be the same without he , so I thank he for join we , even on his birthday . I know that the Government have carry out monitoring in the Tiverton and Minehead area to deliver programme such as update the water framework directive status , natural capital ecosystem assessment and catchment sensitive farming . as hon . member know , the quality of our river , lake and sea be essential for support our ecosystem , provide clean water and produce our food . our beautiful river , lake , sea and beach be a source of pride for our community , and we want to restore they to that end . I totally agree that we be a nation of pet lover . again , I have to mention my three wonderful cat — I never miss the opportunity to mention they — who be Meglatron , Lily and Serena . Serena be give that name because she be such a beautifully serene lady , and Meglatron because he be a crazy little boy we have run around the house all the time . the hon . Lady be quite right , and I be sure that the concern about flea and tick be feel by many pet owner up and down the country . on our wide neonic work , on 21 March — just four day ago — we release the national action plan on pesticide . it have three objective : to encourage the take - up of integrated p management ; to establish a timeline and target for the reduction of the use of pesticide ; and to strengthen compliance , to ensure safety and well environmental outcome . can you believe , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the NAP , which we publish just last Friday — we put out the write ministerial statement on Monday — have be wait over a decade under the previous Government ? we manage to get it out in eight month . I be quite proud of that . on our wide work on neonic , before Christmas we make a write ministerial statement talk about how we want to ensure a complete ban in the use of the emergency authorisation . the hon . Lady will know that I decline this year ' s emergency authorisation for the use of Cruiser pesticide . that demonstrate the Government ' s commitment to tackle some of the concern that be widely hold . the quality of our water be , of course , essential for support ecosystem , provide clean drinking water and produce our food . maintain healthy and clean water source be vital to achieve the Government ' s mission for sustainable economic growth , but the public be also concerned about chemical use for the treatment and prevention of flea and tick for pet in UK waterway . the Government be commit to understand the impact of veterinary medicine enter our environment . speak more widely about water quality , the flawed water system that the Government inherit be still discharge record level of sewage into our river , lake and sea . the situation be not just an environmental failure ; it be also a public health crisis , demand our immediate and decisive action to rectify decade of neglect and mismanagement . we need a systematic approach to tackle issue that impact the whole of the drainage and waste water system , stop the unnecessary pressure from rainwater and sewage misuse enter the system to the point at which it be discharge into the environment . as mention , the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 gain Royal Assent on 24 February 2025 , boost the power of water sector regulator to tackle pollution . that major legislation deliver on this Government ' s promise to clean up the water sector and be the most significant increase in enforcement power for water industry regulator in a decade . the Act will give regulator new power to take tough and fast action to crack down on water company damage the environment and fail their customer . however , we do not just want to give that — oh no , we want to do so much more . further legislation aim at fundamentally transform how our entire water system operate will be guide by the finding of the Independent Water Commission , lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe , which be currently conduct the large review of the industry since privatisation . I also mention the wonderful start to the day I have today , because early this morning , at 9 o ' clock , I meet Sir Steve Redgrave and lot of young rower from the University of Reading to discuss how we can improve our water quality for the river and lake that we all love . it be a pleasure to have a cup of coffee with he very early this morning and talk about our shared ambition to clean up our river . have speak about the importance of water quality , I will turn in detail to the topic of veterinary medicine in waterway . the Government recognise the presence of parasiticide — I nearly get away with that — in the wide environment as a significant concern , and we be actively gather evidence on that complex , multifactorial issue . all veterinary medicine undergo a rigorous scientific assessment before approval . as the regulator for veterinary medicine , the Veterinary Medicines Directorate balance the benefit of veterinary medicine for animal health and welfare , as well as human health protection , against the associate risk , which obviously include environmental risk . medicine be only ever authorise if the benefit outweigh the risk . the VMD follow internationally recognise guideline for assess the environmental risk of veterinary medicine for all animal , include pet . flea and tick can lead to , as mention , discomfort and distress in pet . those parasite can host microbe that cause disease in pet and potentially in pet owner who encounter the flea and tick . topical flea treatment play a crucial role in protect both animal and human health from flea , tick and disease . it be therefore essential that we take a balanced approach to the benefit of such treatment and their potential environmental impact when consider the issue . while there be evidence of the presence of fipronil and imidacloprid in fresh water , it be well establish that , as insecticide , these substance be inherently toxic to invertebrate and we do not understand the effect that current level be have at a population and ecosystem level . we be , however , commit to understand the potential impact of veterinary medicine enter the environment . the VMD have lead on the formation of a cross - Government group on pharmaceutical in the environment to develop a co - ordinate strategy to reduce the impact of the substance in the environment . the group include key governmental body , include the Environment Agency , the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency , the Health and Safety Executive and representative from the devolved government . while the VMD be prioritise the development of an evidence base , work to resolve the issue will require involvement by all key stakeholder , include the pharmaceutical industry and veterinary professional . the work do not come without challenge and stakeholder remain divided on the way forward . some advocate for the benefit of year - round parasiticide use for human and animal health , other emphasise the need for more cautious use , while some push for a complete ban . any decision to limit use must be carefully weigh against the benefit to ensure a balanced approach , as restriction could impact animal welfare , animal health and even public health . also , there be still a critical evidence gap in understand the full impact of those option on both animal and human health , as well as on the environment , and that must be explore far before any regulatory action be take . rise — rise — I will give way to the hon . Lady on the Liberal Democrat Bench and then to my hon . friend . could the Minister just clarify whether that group will consider the benefit of use natural remedy , or a combination of natural remedy , and of ensure that people be fully aware of the benefit of that , and that that will be in some way quantify , as my hon . friend the Member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) mention during her speech . yes , we be go to look at all the evidence on the available option . as I say , there be a difference of opinion over the good way forward ; people have different view on that . it be my job , as we be a responsible government , to look at all the evidence and try to find a balanced way forward , so that will be include as part of the evidence base . be there a rough timeline for that group to come back with a report ? my hon . friend be always very dedicated to defra - relate issue , and it be always nice to see she here . I will check to see whether I can give she a more detailed decision on timing — if I can not do so in this meeting , I will ensure that I let she know afterwards . as I say , the VMD be develop the evidence base and have commission scientific research to investigate how these substance reach river and stream . it be work closely with stakeholder to collect datum and address the issue . it be support call for a review of the internationally agree environmental risk assessment standard . the VMD and the Environment Agency be work closely together to understand the risk pose by these chemical and to respond appropriately . to far address this issue , the group on pharmaceutical in the environment have develop a road map for reduce level of two veterinary substance in UK surface water . the priority for this road map be to raise awareness and improve pet owner education on risk and appropriate use — I know that point have come up here . once finalise , that road map would be available to all stakeholder . as unresearched policy can fail badly , any change we implement must be evidence base and measurable to achieve success . this government will not turn the other way or continue to allow our river , lake and sea to be pollute . through the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , the independent Water Commission , future legislation and many other action , we be demonstrate our commitment to a comprehensive reset of the water industry and will drive long - term transformative change . we remain dedicated to address the environmental impact of veterinary medicine , and will continue work with relevant stakeholder to find solution that protect both animal health and the environment . I again congratulate the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead on secure the debate . the public want clean water and we be determined to deliver it . question put and agree to . House adjourn .