Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Infected Blood Compensation Scheme what recent progress he have make on the infected blood compensation scheme . what recent progress he have make on establish an infected blood compensation scheme . the infected blood scandal be the bad medical scandal in the history of our NHS , and the infected blood compensation scheme be set up to provide some small measure of justice to victim and their family . we have set aside £ 11 . 8 billion for victim , and since the scheme become law on 31 March , the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have the power it need to press ahead and make payment to those eligible for compensation . the compensation payment begin last December , and 69 people have accept their offer , total more than £ 71 million . my constituent , who be 77 year old , be a victim of the infected blood scandal . he be worried that haemophilia patient infect with hepatitis be be sideline by the compensation scheme . he tell I that he be tell those on the special category mechanism with hepatitis C would be upgrade to the same level as those with cirrhosis , but that position have now be reverse . will the Minister look into my constituent ' s concern about disparity for haemophiliac infect with hepatitis ? I will certainly write to my hon . friend on the issue of the special category mechanism . I reassure she that the Government ' s objective be for all victim of the infected blood scandal to be able to achieve the compensation that they deserve . my constituent , Mr Alan Kirkham , have be badly affect by the infected blood scandal . he be infect with hepatitis C from a blood transfusion in 1983 . I meet Alan recently , and he have be campaign for justice for year . will the Minister welcome and pay tribute to the work of campaigner like Alan ? can he provide assurance that we be work at pace to deliver compensation ? will he consider fast - tracking old and more vulnerable people ? I will certainly pay tribute to Alan and to the work of all campaigner over decade . I be restless for progress , and I will support the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to deliver compensation as quickly as possible . on fast - tracking for specific claimant , last week IBCA set out detail of how it be prioritise claim from infected people near the end of their life . what direct discussion have the Minister have with people in Scotland who have be impact by the infected blood scandal about the slow pace of compensation payment ? in the course of the work I have do , I have not only speak to group in Scotland , but engage with the Scottish Government ' s Health Minister on this matter . on the pace of the payment , IBCA have take a test - and - learn approach , which allow it to deal with a sample of the case and then subsequently to scale up . IBCA be operationally independent , but I stand ready to provide all the support I can to speed up the payment . my constituent Hazel , from Street , be infect with hepatitis C in the 1970 after receive blood product follow the birth of her child . she suffer year of ill health and related problem , and be still wait for the infected blood compensation scheme . her case be truly heart - breaking , so what assurance can the Minister provide to people like Hazel that they will soon be support ? first , I express my sympathy and , I be sure , that of the whole House to Hazel in respect of what she have be through . the assurance I give be that this Government will act at pace . that be what we do in put the first set of regulation in place by 24 August last year and by put the second set of regulation in place by 31 March this year . I continue to stand ready to help and support ibca , which be operationally independent , in any way that I can to speed up the payment . Public Service Reform what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reform public service . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reform public service . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reform public service . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reform public service . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reform public service . this government believe in the power of good public service to provide security and opportunity , but we be clear that the way in which the state work have to change . that be why we be reform the planning system to get more house build , why we have introduce free breakfast club to give child the good start to their day , why we have launch the AI action plan to drive the adoption of new tech in public service , and why a combination of investment and reform have help we to cut NHS waiting list for month in a row . Labour be elect to get the NHS back on its foot , and that be exactly what we have be do . at Sandwell and West Birmingham hospital NHS trust in my area , the waiting list have fall by 10 % since the election , which mean that patient be finally get the treatment they need . one of the key thing we have be do be to look at thing such as ambient AI to automate doctor ' note and ensure that we have modern technology in the NHS . will the Minister set out what we be do to ensure that the NHS adopt all technology and reform to ensure that patient be be see as quickly as possible ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be huge potential to increase NHS productivity through the adoption of new technology and AI . as I have say , the combination of investment and reform have help we meet our election pledge to deliver 2 million extra NHS appointment in England in the first year seven month early , but we want to go far . we want to adopt the technology to which my hon . friend have refer to get maximum productivity and well outcome for patient . I thank the Minister for his response . I have be contact by a constituent who be concerned for his poorly elderly father , who require cryotherapy . that service use to be offer at his local gp , avoid a difficult trip to our local hospital , which would have a deleterious impact on his father ' s already poor health . give the Government ' s focus on move more health service into the community and people ' s home as part of our public service reform agenda , do my right hon . friend agree that cryotherapy service should be consider as part of that welcome shift ? the Health Secretary have talk about three big shift that be part of the 10 - year NHS plan . one of those shift be from hospital to the community , which will require more service to be available locally . we have agree a new GP contract , which will see a large boost to general practitioner funding , alongside reform to improve digital access . if we be go to make this shift , it be important that service be available in the local community . the Government ' s laudable mission - lead approach have see NHS waiting list fall for five month in a row . like many public service , our NHS have be plague by over - specify guidance and unnecessary target for many year , so will the Minister assure the House that the mission - lead approach will mean a focus on core non - negotiable to deliver for the british people ? the mission set out the Government ' s long - term target , and the plan for change set out the key target for the next few year . I do believe that target can play a key role in drive behaviour , and that the focus on get waiting list and waiting time down set out in our plan for change can make a real difference over the come few year . I thank the Minister for that answer . I know from my time as a councillor outside this place that under the last government , policy be make in Westminster , with very little thought give to how it could hit frontline service more locally . however , example such as test and trace during the pandemic show that local service can deliver national priority effectively , so what can the Minister do to ensure that civil servant down here work well with frontline worker up there to make sure that this Government ' s priority be be deliver ? the hon . Member make a very good point . it be really important that we change the way in which policy be make — that we listen more to the frontline and work with the test - and - learn approach that be refer to by the Minister for the Cabinet Office in answer to the previous question . that can help drive well outcome for the public . it be clear to I that under the last government , our state fail the public . we have an agenda that be not root in the life of everyday people , mean that despite the number of civil servant be the high in a generation , outcome for my constituent in Wirral West and people across the country be bad . will the Minister please set out how a small , more modern and more focused state can once again deliver world - class public service ? over recent year , the public have see the state get big and taxis go up , but they have not always feel that they be get the right outcome from those change . to deliver our plan for change , we need to reform the state to make it more efficient and more effective . we have start to deliver those reform through strong performance management , accelerate AI adoption , a focus on the frontline , and reform rule around recruitment and secondment . those plan will help empower our excellent civil service to work well , reduce bureaucracy and focus on what really matter , which be well outcome for the public . I commend the ministerial team , both on the innovation fund and — more importantly — the test - and - learn culture that have be refer to , which embrace a willingness to take risk and iterate . do the Minister agree that in order for this work to be truly successful and transform our public service , we must also reform our governance and approval process in parallel , so that they do not inadvertently stifle this welcome method of innovation ? the right hon . Member obviously have hugely important experience in this regard . he will know from that experience that the traditional system can be risk - averse , and that it can seek to resolve too much and try to cover every base before launch a policy . the test - and - learn approach be different by intention . it intend to start small and to build from there . what be absolutely certain be that whether it be his party or my party in power , there be a duty on any Government today to pursue reform of the state to improve outcome for the public , so in that regard I agree with he . a number of month ago , the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster announce the plan for change and the pillar , mission and various other thing that come with it . when will he update the House on how that be go and how the Government be meet those target ? well , I have good news for the right hon . Gentleman . [ laughter . ] this be parliamentary accountability in action . one of the key target in the plan for change be to get waiting list and wait time down . I be pleased to report to he that they have fall for five month in a row and that we have meet our first step on 2 million extra appointment early , and I look forward to more progress in the future . with 2 , 100 job set to go at the Cabinet Office by 2028 , please can the Minister confirm what impact those cut will have on his Department ? what responsibility might be transfer out of it ? the Cabinet Office have triple in size in the past decade or so . I think it be right , after growth like that , that we look at productivity and how to get the good outcome for the public . we have introduce a mutually agree exit scheme . some of the headcount reduction will be by transfer function to other place , but I believe that the Cabinet Office can absorb a headcount reduction after , as I say , triple in size over the past decade or so . can the Minister outline Government plan to reform the funding of fire authority ? that be especially important in Somerset , where change to employer national insurance contribution , the ending of the rural support grant , the removal of the service grant and the reduction of the pension grant will cost Devon and Somerset Fire Authority nearly £ 2 million a year , at a time of rise cost . I do not want to interrupt the collegiate mood we have have this morning by point out that we have to take those decision after the inheritance we receive . I can not speak for every local authority settlement around the country , but the local authority settlement announce after the Budget be on the whole well than they have be for many year . they will not make up for the past 14 year , but they be well settlement than many local authority have see for some time . I thank the Minister very much for his answer to those question . the reform of public service be important , and I welcome the idea he have put forward . I know he have a deep interest in Northern Ireland . be it possible on his journey to Northern Ireland — I understand that he go regularly — for he to discuss the reform of public service with the Northern Ireland Assembly and the relevant Minister to ensure that we can have the same benefit that come from what he be put forward today , thereby improve service and save money at the same time ? it be important that we have good dialogue between all the devolve government and the UK Government . I believe that we do have that good dialogue in place at the moment . there be always different political party represent around the table , and people will come at thing from a particular angle , but when it come to this kind of agenda , the question be : how do we get the good value for money for people , how do we get waiting list down , and how do we make sure that the taxis that people pay get the good possible public sector productivity ? there be a common agenda there , and I see no reason why we can not keep work productively together on that . emergency Preparedness what step he be take to strengthen emergency preparedness . what step he be take to strengthen emergency preparedness . the Government be introduce a range of measure to strengthen our emergency preparedness . we hold regular cross - government planning exercise for a range of scenario . later this year , we will undertake a pandemic response exercise , and we will also undertake a national test of our emergency alert system . next week , my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster will open the new UK Resilience Academy , which will train over 4 , 000 people a year . I thank the Minister for her response , and I particularly welcome the propose test of the emergency alert system . the demise of landline and the switch off of the public switch telephone network mean that resident — particularly those in area that suffer prolonged power outage , such as part of my Carlisle constituency — now rely on their mobile phone more than ever in emergency event . do the Minister share my desire to see Ofcom expedite its work on the radio access network resilience project so that we can move towards a position where the network put in place emergency generator to switch the mast back on in the event of a prolong power outage ? this be an issue that I recognise , and I reassure my hon . friend that my colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology be work very closely with telecom company and Ofcom to ensure that consumer be protect throughout the public switch telephone network migration . as she mention , that will include provision to protect access to emergency service during power outage . local resilience forum such as Northumbria LRF and Durham and Darlington LRF , which cover my constituency , play a very important role in identify potential risk and support our local community . can the Minister tell the House how the Government be work with these local forum , and how they will ensure that their insight feed into the Government ' s planning and preparation for risk such as pandemic ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . the Government recognise the importance of local resilience forum and the role they play in boost resilience in place and community . I hope she feel reassure that I have meet all local resilience forum across England to discuss their concern , and I have also meet business to talk about the importance of local resilience . we will continue to work closely with local resilience forum , include Northumbria LRF in her local area , to plan and prepare for a broad range of risk , include pandemic . while I be a police and crime commissioner , I see many of the thing that have be refer to by hon . member as critically important for emergency resilience plan across the public sector and work with the private sector . to ensure that that be all target in the right way , it be key to make sure that all the different agency , public body and company have a share understanding of the risk that we face as a country , and receive the late update on those . can the Minister tell the House when the Government will next update the national risk register , and explain what plan Ministers have for the frequency with which those update will be publish ? I thank the hon . member for his work in this space , because I know he have do a lot of work on this issue . we be constantly look at the risk register and update it , and a lot of work have be do . alongside that , we be carry out a resilience review . as he rightly point out , we need to work across a wide range of sector to make sure that wide society play a great role in this matter , and the work that I have be do have involve meeting business , voluntary organisation and vulnerable group to make sure that the issue be reflect . we will make sure that we share the lesson learn with the House in due course , and I have also engage with parliamentarian on this issue . in the last few week , Dorset have be ravage by wildfire , especially Upton heath and Canford heath in my local area , where more than 130 acre be go . I be blow away by the work of the fire crew from Dorset , Wiltshire , Hampshire and the Isle of Wight . will the Minister thank the fire service for their combine work , but also acknowledge that there need to be a review of funding for emergency service to ensure that they be consistently able to protect we in the face of climate change ? I ask she for that assurance . I thank the hon . member for raise such an important matter . I want to put on record my thank to the emergency service , which have be do a lot of work on the ground , particularly through local resilience forum and her work as a local MP . as part of the resilience review , we be look at the issue she have raise . we be also work collaboratively across department to make sure that the climate change matter she have raise be look at , because they should be look at not only by the Cabinet Office alone , but across all Departments . I call the shadow Minister . I would like to turn to the sorry state of labour - run Birmingham , where rat the size of dachshund be terrify local resident . indeed , in the Daily Telegraph this morning , we read that " Birmingham city council warn of a surge in rat - bear disease … that the elderly , disabled people and baby be ' particularly susceptible ' to " . the Government have have emergency power throughout this crisis , not least the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 . will the Minister set out for the House why they have decline to use they ? I thank the hon . member for his question , and I be sure he would like to join I in praise the Deputy Prime Minister and her team for their hard work on this . a lot of the rubbish have be clear , and I want to take this opportunity to thank all the staff in Birmingham and across Departments who have play a key role in respond quickly to and deal tirelessly with this matter . I be afraid I be not go to congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister , in much the same way that the people of Birmingham be not thank she either . I very much hope that the Deputy Prime Minister will take the Prime Minister and maybe the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster to Birmingham to see that , in fact , much of the rubbish have not be clear . I also hope that the Labour party will undertake not to take any donation from Unite the union while this crisis be ongoing . the Government have commissioner in Birmingham at the moment , but we know from answer to parliamentary question that the commissioner be not involve in the negotiation to end this ongoing problem with the local union . the Government have power to do so . why be they not use those power , and when will they bring an end to these strike and set the people of Birmingham free ? I thank the hon . member for the question , but I be slightly disappoint by the approach he have take . it be important that we work collaboratively together . as he rightly point out , Birmingham be the focus here , and let we move the politic out of it . it be important that the dispute be resolve as swiftly as possible , and that be what the Deputy Prime Minister and her team be do at the moment . datum what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the use of datum by Government Departments . when we come into power , the Government commission a comprehensive state of digital government review , which demonstrate just how far we have to go . it set out a picture of fragmentation , silos and a failure to maximise the opportunity of datum to personalise and target service . the average UK adult citizen spend a week and a half deal with government bureaucracy every year . the Government have set out a plan to change this , and we be take wide - range action : from create the national data library to increase the number of service that use gov . uk one Login . I be glad the Minister mention the Government ' s state of digital government review and its fairly excoriate conclusion . it be clear that the public sector be not use datum well enough . it detail the challenge , barrier and reluctance in get the good out of the datum available to Departments — some can not even get their own arm ' s length body to share datum with they — and if we use datum well , we can deliver government well . would the Minister meet I to discuss far how the Cabinet Office can lead in act on the lesson of the review and ensure that the citizen experience be put at the heart of the change it make ? I would be delighted to meet the hon . member . I be very passionate about this . in local government , I see how difficult it be for frontline staff who be not able to get datum from different service . most importantly , citizen be have to tell their story to and share datum with multiple service , which cause confusion . we be work very closely with the new digital centre of government on this , and we have an action plan to address it . however , I always welcome new idea , because this could be really transformative for citizen . too often , when I be try to get to the bottom of problem for my constituent in Ribble Valley , I get response to write question say that minister just do not have the datum available . I applaud the Government for put datum at the heart of their plan , but I worry that we could get too carry away with look at AI solution before we get to solution for actually collect datum in the first place . could the Minister reassure I on how we be work with local government to make sure we be collect datum from all possible source in one place to start with , before we get to how we can make that more efficient ? the two issue be completely link . to use the opportunity of AI , which be enormous , to personalise service and target prevention , we need to have a clear datum picture . we need to be able to bring datum together across different level of Government . there be a huge amount of datum in Government , but some of it be stick in legacy system and not share properly . this be the absolute bedrock of the opportunity around AI , so it be something we be very committed to , especially work with local government . I call the shadow Minister . I hope to continue the positive cross - party approach to this question . I particularly like the Minister ' s commitment to a clear datum picture . the Sullivan review into Government datum be publish in March this year , and Professor Sullivan make 59 recommendation to ensure that across Government accuracy and consistency be maintain . I do not expect the Minister to have a full formal response to that review today . however , can she reassure I that the Government will issue a full formal response to the review and its recommendation to provide that clear datum across Government within , say , a year of the report ' s publication ? I appreciate this collegiate style of discussion . there be a huge amount to do here . when we come into power , we set out , as I say , a review of the picture that show just how hard it be for citizen to negotiate . when move home , one have to announce it to 10 different organisation use different public service , sometimes 40 different service , so we need to change . we have not wait for the review . we have already set out our own plan , but we will of course respond to external review that come forward . Civil Service Reform what step he be take to reform the civil service . let I thank the thousand of diligent and hard - work civil servant who be dedicate to make people ' s live well . we want to get the good for civil servant and out of civil servant , so we be reform the structure and the focus so that it be well place to fulfil that purpose . that include a number of important step in recent week : robust performance management ; well use of digital tool ; fast recruitment ; cut to some wasteful spending ; and a review of the arm - length body landscape , include the change announce on NHS England , to return both power and responsibility to elect representative . I thank the Minister for his response and I be perfectly happy to accept the diligence of the civil service . regardless , every two year a third of the civil service change their department and countless more change to unrelated policy role within each Department . under the previous Government , policy expertise be completely hollow out from the civil service . will the Minister set out how we intend to resolve that to bring policy expertise back into the civil service and ensure we have Government team capable of deliver for Britain ? it be probably true to say that a long - hold frustration of some Ministers have be turnaround and the pattern of career progression , where people move on after a few year just as they be become an absolute expert in their area . our ambition be not just to have policy expertise , but to change the way that policy be put together in the first place . that be why the test - and - learn approach , which we discuss early in this session , be so important . frankly , the old way of have a group of expert write a White Paper , throw it over a wall and hope it will work first time , just do not work in today ' s age . what we really have to avoid be a two - speed world , with massive innovation in the private sphere and a public sphere work in the same old way . we have to avoid that in the interest of the public . the right hon . Gentleman talk a good game about scrap quango and I support the review he announce to reduce the size of the bureaucratic state . why then , despite the rhetoric , be the Government at the same time create dozen of new quango ? this be another debate , which have go on for many year and relate to the question of headcount — government can magically reduce headcount by create a quango somewhere , but the headcount may not have change at all . what be inform the drive this time be the fiction that an arm ' s length body can somehow absolve Ministers of responsibility . it do not work like that in the real world . sometimes there be a good case for have an arm ' s length body , but in the end , we know that accountability will be with Ministers , and that be what be inform how we look at these thing at the moment . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I have listen with a great deal of interest to what the right hon . Gentleman have have to say on the Government ' s plan to make whitehall more efficient and to make significant reform to service delivery , and we on these Benches very much welcome the intention behind that statement . however , announcement have be make in the medium about the intention to cut 2 , 100 job in the Cabinet Office and reduce the Department ' s workforce by a third . why have we not have a statement in this House about those job cut specifically , and when will Members of Parliament get an opportunity to scrutinise exactly what that mean for their constituent and their expectation about service delivery ? I work very closely with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Treasury on this matter . the truth be , civil service headcount grow by more than 100 , 000 in the year the opposition be in power . we believe that some of that can be explain by the repatriation of power after Brexit , but some of it can be look at in term of efficiency , which be what we be do . by reduce the Government ' s overhead , we can devote the resource to where they be really need : in frontline public service . after such growth preside over by the Conservatives over the past decade , we believe that can be do . Co - operation with devolved government what step he be take to strengthen co - operation with the devolved government . what step he be take to strengthen co - operation with the devolved government . what step he be take to strengthen co - operation with the devolved government . what step he be take to strengthen co - operation with the devolved government . my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster speak a few moment ago of a good dialogue . we be commit to work with the devolved government across the UK , and there be frequent , proactive engagement between Ministers and their devolved counterpart to achieve that . for example , we have work with the Scottish Government on the joint investment plan for Grangemouth , with the Welsh Government through the Tata Steel / Port Talbot transition board and alongside the Northern Ireland Executive on the city deal . the Minister will be aware of last week ' s historic UK Supreme Court ruling on the definition of a woman be base on biological sex , which provide important legal clarity . it be critical now that the UK and scottish Governments work in a co - ordinate manner to ensure that the practical impact be understand . how do the Minister plan to ensure that this co - ordinate approach deliver for woman in Scotland and across the United Kingdom , and do he agree that the ruling must be a lesson for the SNP Government to stop waste scottish taxpayer ' money on flawed legislation and court case ? the ruling uphold the protection of single - sex space base on biological sex and bring welcome clarity and confidence for woman and , indeed , service provider . the Equality and Human Rights Commission , as Britain ' s equality regulator , have already commit to support service provider with update guidance . on the specific point raise by my hon . friend , we will meet scottish counterpart to discuss the implication of this significant judgment . I thank the Minister for his answer to the early question . event such as Tartan Day provide a vital opportunity for company such as RSE in Cumbernauld to promote their product to international market . RSE have repeatedly tell I that it want to be a part of Brand Scotland . will the Minister outline how he will work with the Scotland Office and the Scottish Government to ensure that Tartan Day be an even big success next year to secure investment in the scottish economy and create scottish job ? let I first pay tribute to RSE and all its brilliant work on water tech . early this month , I have the pleasure of represent Scotland in the United States along with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Scotland at Tartan Week , where we meet a range of business and investor to bang the drum for Scotland as a great place to invest and to work . it be , frankly , a powerful opportunity to show that Scotland have two government commit to its prosperity and wellbeing . as the UK Government commit to growth , we be more interested in new market than old argument , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State actively reach out to the First Minister seek to co - operate by co - ordinate our presence . I welcome the step that the Government be take to strengthen co - operation with the Scottish Government , to cut waste and inefficiency and to ensure that minister take responsibility for public service . this be an important area for potential co - operation and dialogue , because , in Scotland , we currently have more quango than there be msp in Holyrood , which waste million of pound a year . do my right hon . friend agree that the SNP Scottish Government should stop hide behind these quango , end the culture of waste and take responsibility for plummet standard in scottish public service ? I echo the sentiment of my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . the powerful point he make about the ultimate ministerial responsibility rest rightly and reasonably with elect representative apply north of the Tweed as surely as it do south of the Tweed . I only wish that the Scottish Government would use the power that they have to do the same and actively cut waste and bureaucracy . Scotland deserve well than what we be witness just now . do the Minister agree that this Labour Government ' s plan for change have help to deliver 1 , 500 more gps to help stop the 8 am rush and that the Scottish Government should work with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to look at how the SNP - run health service in Scotland could learn from such action ? as the UK Government , we have deliver more than 2 million extra NHS appointment seven month early , as the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster set out just a few moment ago . yet we all know that , despite the brilliance of NHS staff , the NHS in Scotland be still on its knee . today , from this Dispatch Box , I urge our colleague in the Scottish Government to work with we and actually learn some lesson from our team in the Department of Health and Social Care who be already drive change across England . of course , if the Government be serious about co - operate with the devolved government , tomorrow ' s Second read debate on devolve immigration policy to Scotland , which have be secure by my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) , would not be necessary . the Minister will recall that , in the run - up to the general election , Labour ' s Deputy Leader in Scotland , Jackie Baillie , say that they would be open to talk on this issue and , of course , it would be unthinkable that she would have say such a thing just to gain short - term electoral advantage . therefore , have wait a year , can the Minister tell we when he expect those talk to open ? in the spirit of collegiality that have be the hallmark of this question session so far , let I respectfully suggest that there be a fundamental philosophical difference between our two party . the SNP want to end the United Kingdom and we believe in devolution , which be , ultimately , a two - Parliament , two - government solution . there be two government who represent the good interest of the United Kingdom and , in that sense , I appreciate that there be a constant demand and a constant set of grievance from the SNP about why devolution be not work . it be about time that we have a Government in Scotland who be committed to make devolution work . far to the question from the hon . member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Kenneth Stevenson ) , give last week ' s UK Supreme Court ruling , which I welcome as a return to common sense and biological reality , what step be the Minister take to ensure that Government message reflect this clarity and that it be implement consistently both across the devolved region and here in Westminster ? I can assure the hon . Lady that the Equality and Human Rights Commission , which have a remit across the nation and region of the United Kingdom , have already commit to support service provider with update guidance . I assure the hon . Lady that we be talk to colleague in Scotland and that we will also be talk to colleague in Wales and , indeed , in Northern Ireland . Local Authority Procurement : economic Growth what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to assist local authority in use public procurement to help create economic growth . I welcome the House ' s continue passion for procurement , and my hon . friend have help to lead the way in this area at Hammersmith and Fulham council . I have see how much energy there be in local government to use procurement to deliver job and growth . the Government be work on plan to allow local authority to reserve contract for local employer . public procurement can be a key tool in drive growth and support business across the economy . our new national procurement policy statement look to maximise spend with small business and ask contract authority to work collaboratively on local and regional growth plan . I thank the Minister for her reply and for the excellent work she have do in put together the procurement strategy . it have be a passion of mine for many year that we do not use procurement just to get extra social value but extra economic value , which will help local firm and local growth . that be what this statement do , and I hugely welcome it . may I ask the Minister whether she intend to issue guidance to local authority so that they know how good they can achieve economic value ? for example , they could proactively tell small firm what contract be come up or train they in how to tender , which be very difficult for they . the Government could also encourage local authority to break procurement into lot , so that small firm have a well chance of bidding . finally , local authority could stop require an unreasonable number of year of account to be show before small firm be permit to bid . growth be the no . 1 mission for this Government . we have learn from local authority such as Hammersmith and Fulham , which build economic value into procurement . the Procurement Act 2023 make new tool available , but what be critical be how they be use to deliver innovation and growth . the Government will be consult on new plan to set target for small and medium - sized enterprise use for the wide public sector . we have deliver extensive training and develop new community of practice to help make the most of this huge opportunity . as my hon . friend have say , much of this be about culture and the use of the tool . we will be work with local authority around the country to deliver on this enormous opportunity . my constituency be a food production powerhouse , and I welcome any step by the Government to encourage local authority to procure british - produce food . local authority be under extreme pressure to procure at very low cost . what step be the Minister take to ensure that , first , the Groceries Code Adjudicator ensure that farmer be pay fairly for the food they produce and , secondly , the Department for Business and Trade be not about to undermine the food they produce by enter a damaging trade deal with the US that would undermine those standard ? the guidance we put into the national procurement policy statement make it clear that we want to deliver good value for money , which mean not just cost but ensure that we support growth and local supplier . that allow local authority to make decision on what will create job and good opportunity for community in the procurement of food . plan for Change what recent progress he have make on implement the plan for change . this Government be elect with an overwhelming mandate to deliver change . we inherit a country hit by an unprecedented cost of living crisis , with million stick on waiting list and community blight by crime and antisocial behaviour . we be already deliver the change we promise . there will be a pay rise for 3 million worker , thank to our increase in the national minimum wage . nhs waiting list be down six month in a row , and there be fund for 13 , 000 neighbourhood police and community support officer . that be the change we promise , and that be the change we be deliver . I thank the Minister for her answer . it be a really impressive catalogue of achievement in the early month of the Government . can the Minister set out more specific detail for my constituent and the House on big infrastructure project such as the low Thames crossing ? I be delighted that the Government have now give consent to it , and Dartford resident be delighted too . how can these big infrastructure project not only kick - start economic growth but provide job , skill and opportunity for resident in Dartford and across the Thames estuary ? my hon . friend be a great champion for the people of Dartford . fix Britain ' s creak infrastructure be vital for our growth mission and plan for change . we be reform our planning rule to cut through blockage to deliver infrastructure and to help meet our target of 150 planning decision by the end of this Parliament . the Government be commit to work with the private sector to deliver the low Thames crossing . as well as create job , it will reduce congestion and drive economic growth by improve connectivity between Kent and Essex . as the Minister be undoubtedly aware , part of the plan for change be kick - start economic growth . prior to the recess , the Secretary of State for Transport advise I in relation to her statement about electric vehicle charge that the Cabinet Office be responsible for EU reset negotiation . what assessment have the Cabinet Office make of the cost of the UK not be in a custom union with the EU ? the Minister for the Cabinet Office have be negotiate with the EU in the country ' s national interest . we have be clear that there will be no return to the custom union or single market , but the reset in our relation with the EU be an important one . I call the shadow Minister . key to much of that plan be the Government ' s target to make the UK the fast grow economy in the G7 . but with the International Monetary Fund join the Office for Budget Responsibility and the OECD in massively slash projection for UK growth and the IMF not expect the UK to be the fast grow economy in the G7 in any year between now and 2030 , how confident be the Minister that the Government will meet that target ? the prediction be that we be set to be the large grow european economy in the G7 . since come into government in July , we have prioritise growth : for example , Universal Studios build Europe ' s big theme park in Bedfordshire , and unblock planning decision on project like the low Thames crossing . we be get on with deliver the growth that the country need after 14 year of decline under the Conservatives . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last oral question , we have be work to create a more focused Cabinet Office that will drive the work of reform and help to deliver on our plan for change . we have take decisive action , include by cut wasteful spending so that resource can be target on the frontline . I be pleased to inform the House that I will shortly be open the UK Resilience Academy , which will be an important resource in train public servant for a range of potential emergency . I be sure the Minister will agree that the diversity of those in position of responsibility across all area of UK Government and public institution be key to maintain confidence among the british public that the Government be work for all of we . diversity be important across all the various equality strand as well as the various geographical area of the UK ' s nation and region . will he detail what work have be do to review the diversity of public appointment in the UK and to maintain and improve that diversity , particularly in view of the change propose to public body ? Merit will always be the primary consideration in any appointment , but diversity be important , and we be not give up on it . we want to see a public service that look like the country and speak with all the accent that make this country a great place . the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Queen ' s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) recently speak at the civil service social mobility conference to bring home that message , which will reflect what we do on public appointment . I call the shadow Minister . will the Paymaster General give we an update on his negotiation with the European Union ? he have not update the House since the beginning of February , and there have be much speculation in the press . will he take this opportunity to rule out drop the right to annual quota negotiation on fishing ? we will negotiate in the interest of our fisher and understand and implement our marine protection right . as I be sure the hon . Gentleman will understand , I will not give a running commentary on the negotiation , but we be clear that we will negotiate in the national interest and in line with the manifesto that the Government , with 411 Members of Parliament , be elect on . the whole House will have hear the Minister fail to rule that out . it be good to hear the Prime Minister recently praise the Brexit freedom to regulate as we wish on artificial intelligence ; will the Minister assure the House that EU AI rule will not be apply to Northern Ireland ? again the hon . Gentleman come with his question on the reset . we have have an atmosphere of collegiality , and I want to join in by agree with the Leader of the Opposition that the previous Conservative Government leave the EU without any plan for growth . that be absolutely true . the hon . Gentleman should follow the public debate on this issue . major retailer include M & S , Sainsbury ' s , Morrisons and Lidl all support this Government ' s approach in the reset to get a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement . the hon . Gentleman should back that approach ; otherwise , people will rightly conclude that he and his party have learn nothing . rise — Order . I say to those on the Front Bench that we only get to question 8 early because we be slow . now we be in topical , and I really want to get in all the member who do not get in early . will the Minister join I in congratulate the seven school in my constituency that launch breakfast club this week ? do she agree that breakfast club be a fantastic example of this Government ' s plan for change and reform of public service in action ? I be pleased to hear about the seven new free breakfast club in Carlisle , and I be delighted that Brent Knoll school in my constituency also have a new free breakfast club . with our plan for change , we will give child the good start in life , break down barrier to opportunity and put money back in parent ' pocket by save they up to £ 450 with the roll - out of free breakfast club . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . warm word about a reset in UK - EU relation be no long enough . the summit that will take place in London on 19 May be an opportunity for real action . will the Minister take the opportunity that the summit present to commit to bring in a UK - EU youth mobility scheme that will boost economic growth and enhance chance for young people in our country and across the EU ? a youth mobility scheme be not part of our plan . we have always say that we will listen to sensible EU proposal , but we will not go back to freedom of movement . where I do agree with the hon . Lady be on concrete proposal and concrete progress on 19 May . we be look to secure a new partnership with the EU that will make our country safe , more secure and more prosperous . teesside have enormous potential for AI investment . what progress be the Government make on AI growth zone , AI adoption and investment for Teesside ? AI be a huge opportunity for the UK . the AI opportunitie action plan be a statement of our ambition to make the UK a world leader in AI . we launch an expression of interest on AI growth zone and have receive more than 200 response . the first such zone have already be announce at Culham , home to the UK Atomic Energy Authority . we have recently find out that portrait and painting of Elizabeth I , Sir Walter Raleigh and William Shakespeare be among 69 piece of artwork that have be remove from no . 10 , no . 11 and across the Government estate . do this not make a mockery of the Government ' s St George ' s day celebration this week ? they be more interested in chase the late woke trend than celebrate the history and heritage of this great country . I have already say that we want a public service that reflect all the great accent that make this country such a great place . we celebrate our history , and I warmly wish the hon . member — a day late , I admit — a very happy St George ' s day . as we approach the eighth anniversary of Grenfell , there be still no justice for the bereaved and survivor , but we do now have a Government response to the national inquiry . Grenfell campaigner have be clear with I that they want to see the promise change implement , but they be sceptical , give previous failure of the state to learn the lesson from past disaster . do the Minister agree that as part of , or alongside , the very welcome commitment to a Hillsborough law , there should be a national oversight mechanism to ensure that when inquiry be set up , they lead to meaningful change ? my hon . friend be a powerful advocate on this issue . it be incredibly important that the Government be hold to account for the implementation of inquiry recommendation . it be why the Government have already commit to establish a publicly accessible record of recommendation make by public inquiry since 2024 . we will ensure that become standard practice in the future . we be also consider wide reform of the inquiry landscape . press report early this week indicate that negotiation with the EU around security and defence be to be link to the review of the trade and co - operation agreement , in particular in relation to access to fishery . may I invite the Paymaster General to confirm to the House that those report be not true and that there will be no linkage between those two important negotiation ? there be no such link , and the right hon . Gentleman know that the current arrangement will come to an end in 2026 . we will negotiate in the interest of our fisher and be look at our responsibility to the marine environment . it be right that the Government have ensure that funding be in place to compensate victim of the infected blood scandal , but many of they , particularly those in my constituency , be still concerned that the process be take too long . will my right hon . friend say a little more about what we be do to speed up get compensation to those victim ? my hon . friend be a powerful advocate for her constituent . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be of course operationally independent , but I stand ready to take all the step I can to ensure that compensation be make as soon as possible . payment to the infected start at the end of last year ; payment to the affected will start by the end of this year . it be every british citizen ' s right to vote , and voter turnout be one demonstration of public engagement with politic . will the Minister consider scrap photo voter ID , so that the 777 , 000 people who say that be the reason they do not vote at the last general election will be able to exercise their right to vote at the next general election ? as we set out in our manifesto , the Government be commit to encourage participation in our democracy and believe that it be unacceptable when legitimate voter be prevent or discourage from vote . although we have no plan to remove the voter ID rule , at the election in May the veteran card will be accept for the first time , and we be conduct a thorough review of the voter ID rule , evaluate how they impact citizen at the general election . too many Government Departments and public body have foreign - make tableware purchase with british taxpayer ' money . may I invite the ministerial team to make a commitment to ensure that every Department replace its foreign - make table set with a British - make one — preferably from Stoke - on - Trent ? we know of the brilliant craftsmanship of the Stoke - on - trent industry . we be commit to support british business and ensure that they have the good chance of win public contract . our new national policy statement ask contract authority to maximise spend with small and medium - sized enterprise and to support our industrial strategy . during the last Parliament , I make a submission , on behalf of the National Association of Retired Police Officers , for a medal to be issue in recognition of the service give by those injure on duty and invalid out of the service . that have the backing of the then Policing Minister , and I understand it also have the backing of the current Policing Minister , but it have now disappear into a black hole in the Cabinet Office . will the Minister please dig it out , dust it off and give it a fair wind ? I will find out exactly where we be with this matter and then write to the right hon . member . under the Windsor framework , the Government , through the Cabinet Office , regularly supply datum to the European Union about the number and type of check conduct at the Irish sea border , but they refuse to provide that datum to member of this House . when I be a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly and the oversight of those check lay with the local Department , I be able to acquire that , but now that it be under the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , Members who ask those question get a refusal of an answer . why be that ? I be perfectly happy to look into the matter that the hon . and learn Gentleman raise . on the UK - EU reset , I very much hope that if the Government be able to secure a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement that they will reduce the number of check on the irish sea . the 36th anniversary of the Hillsborough disaster come and go over the recess , when we also see in the medium rumour that the Government be consider water down their propose Hillsborough law . can the Minister explain the Government ' s think ? I pay tribute to the Hillsborough family and those who have campaign over so many year . the Government be commit to bring in a Hillsborough law , but it be also important that we work closely with the family to ensure that we get it right , and that be precisely what we will do . Ukraine War : London Talks ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Foreign Secretary if he will make a statement on the talk hold yesterday in London on the war in Ukraine . I thank the right hon . Lady for her question and for the Opposition ' s continued support for the united position that we take in our iron - clothe support for Ukraine . we remain fully committed to work with Ukraine and our international partner to secure a just and last peace . our support for Ukraine be iron - clothe . representative of the United Kingdom , France , Germany and the United States convene in London yesterday , with Ukraine , for another round of intensive talk , follow up on the meeting in Paris last week . all party reiterate their strong support for President Trump ' s commitment to stop the killing and achieve a just and last peace . the talk be productive and successful , and significant progress be make on reach a common position on next step . all agree to continue their close co - ordination and look forward to further talk soon . there be an E3 statement on this just last night . the Foreign Secretary have bilateral discussion with Foreign Minister Sybiha , and he remain in close contact with his ministerial counterpart . to give further detail of the discussion would only benefit Putin , as I hope the right hon . Lady understand . we condemn Russia ' s brutal missile and drone attack on civilian , include overnight . our thought be with the victim and their loved one at this tragic time . they be absolutely horrific scene , and they come on the back of shocking scene not only in Kyiv but in Kryvyi Rih , Sumy , Marhanets and many other location across Ukraine in recent day . I remind the House that , while Ukraine have be in peace talk , Russia have continue these severe attack , include last night . that be a stark reminder of the continue bloodshed and aggression perpetrate by Putin . I witness myself the terrible situation in Kyiv when I visit just week ago ; there be attack on Bucha of all place just hour before I arrive . indeed , this be about not just the killing but the continue shocking abduction of child and attempt to wipe out ukrainian culture . Putin ' s demand remain undiminished . we be very clear about that . President Zelensky have show his commitment to peace . President Putin must now agree to a full and immediate ceasefire without condition , as Ukraine have do . we will not stop in our effort to work with all party to that end . for all the talk take place , it be concern that a clear and unified front in support of Ukraine , to support a peace on its term , have yet to emerge . the Minister mention the E3 statement on yesterday ' s talk , but it consist of three sentence state that the talk be productive and successful , and that significant progress be make in reach a common position on the next step . will he tell we exactly what be productive and successful about the talk , what those next step be , and whether Ukraine be in agreement ? be security guarantee for Ukraine discuss , and be progress make on agree what they will be ? be the UK ' s long - stand position of support Ukraine ' s accession to NATO discuss ? follow the abhorrent missile strike in Kyiv last night , which kill more innocent civilian , do the Minister believe that Putin be committed to a just and fair end to this conflict ? can the Minister confirm whether the status of Crimea and other ukrainian territory invade and occupy unlawfully by Russia be discuss and what the UK Government ' s position be ? the UK be the strong advocate for Ukraine regain all the territory take by force by Putin and for Putin to lose this war . be that still the case ? there be much debate about the initiative to end the war by negotiation , but we can not forget that this war be start by Putin — a murderous , vile autocrat who be be prop up by an axis of authoritarian state try to extinguish democracy on our continent , and by those who be oppose to our value , include China , North Korea and Iran . we need the Government to leverage british influence in every way possible for Ukraine . our ukrainian friend be on the frontline , battle an attempt to reshape the whole international order by force . I condemn the sanctioning of 15 member yesterday by Russia . to those colleague , I say this : it show that you be on the right side of history and that we must always stand up to tyranny . UK sanction on Russia must stay in place . what be the Government ' s position on apply secondary sanction , and when will the billion of pound of proceed from the sale of Chelsea FC be make available for Ukraine ? can the Minister explain why the Government ' s £ 2 . 26 billion loan to Ukraine , back by the profit of sanctioned asset , be be pay over three year rather than in full now ? finally , what more can the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office do to mobilise british technology , which could be cheaply and quickly apply to adapt Ukraine ' s military effort ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her question and for her continued support and unity on these issue . it be crucial that we send a signal not only to our friend in Ukraine but to Putin — that this House will not be divide on these issue . we be unite in our support for Ukraine , and I can reassure she of our absolute commitment to Ukraine . indeed , there have be extensive ministerial contact over recent week . I meet Minister Sybiha in Turkey a week or so ago , and the Foreign Secretary be with he yesterday . contact remain at every level . the right hon . Lady ask a number of specific question . I be afraid that I can not go into the detail of yesterday ' s discussion , for reason that she will understand . I know she have a job to do in hold we to account on that , but it be really important that we allow those technical talk to go on at that level between the principal , and she will understand why that be necessary . I agree completely with the right hon . Lady ' s point about the sanction against member of this House , which I utterly condemn . this be par for the course when it come to Putin and his regime . she ask what we be do on sanction . our commitment to sanction remain undiminished . we will maintain the pressure at every level . in fact , we be ramp up the pressure , and today we have announce new sanction , include on the shocking repurposing of game console controller to kill Ukrainians by Russia . we be take robust action at every step we can , not only directly , to choke off the russian war machine , but in relation to second and third - country circumvention of those sanction . she can be assure that I have spend a lot of time on this issue in recent week . the right hon . Lady ask about the situation with Chelsea FC , and I refer she to my previous comment on that . we be work at pace to meet the agreement that be make on that . she point out the importance of the extraordinary revenue accelerator loan . the first tranche of that have be disburse . in fact , I discuss this with the deputy Finance Minister of Ukraine just a few week ago , to ensure that they have access to those resource . they do have access , and I be happy to write to she separately about the detail of the further tranche that will be pay . there be absolutely no softening of our commitment to the coalition of the willing . indeed , the Foreign Secretary meet French , US , german and ukrainian counterpart last week , underline our share commitment , and we be lead a coalition of willing nation to defend Ukraine ' s security . we will not get into the operational detail , for obvious reason , as the Defence Secretary make clear early this week . the right hon . Lady ask about Crimea . the UK ' s position regard ukrainian sovereignty be well known and have not change : we do not recognise russian sovereignty over any territory illegally seize from Ukraine , include Crimea . when , how and on what term this war come to an end can be decide only by negotiation with Ukraine at the heart of they . as one of the individual who be sanction yesterday by the Kremlin , I ask the Minister whether he agree that if Putin be serious about secure any sort of last peace in Ukraine , he should stop the performative sanctioning of democratically elect member of this House and focus on stop the murderous , barbaric killing of civilian in Ukraine and the invasion of that nation , which we stand with in full support . again , I utterly condemn the sanctioning of member of this House , include my hon . friend . I be on that list too , as be many other member , and it be completely unacceptable ; we be clear on that . my hon . friend rightly point out example of Russia ' s action in recent day — the horrific attack , the death , the killing , the continue aggression — and of course Russia be the aggressor in this conflict . I call Liberal Democrat spokesperson James MacCleary . overnight , Russia launch 11 ballistic missile and nearly 200 cruise missile and drone at civilian target in Kyiv . yesterday ' s talk in London should have be an opportunity to strengthen the western coalition ' s support for Ukraine in the face of Putin ' s barbarism . instead , they be derail by President Trump , who , in a petulant response to President Zelensky ' s refusal to countenance the recognition of Crimea as Russian , withdraw his Secretary of State and special adviser from the meeting . President Trump demonstrate that he be not interested in secure a just peace that can deter future russian aggression and protect Ukraine ' s right to self - determination . instead , he be intent on secure a carve - up of Ukraine with Putin , as long as it be agree before the 100th day of his presidency . will the Minister make clear to his US counterpart that the apparent ultimatum share with President Zelensky last week , which would deliver to Putin most of the goal of his illegal invasion , be utterly wrong and would only embolden future russian aggression ? I too yesterday find myself on a list of mps from across the House who be be sanction by the Kremlin . will the Government outline how they plan to support member who be be target for speak out ? while I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s party ' s continued support for a united front on Ukraine , I do not recognise his characterisation of the talk yesterday , which be productive and constructive , and involve the United States . the Foreign Secretary also speak to Secretary of State Rubio just the night before , and we be in regular contact with our US counterpart . Secretary of State Rubio welcome the fact that we be host special envoy Kellogg alongside other . of course , the Prime Minister have be in contact with President Trump in recent day , and the Foreign Secretary have be in contact with his counterpart . we share the President ' s desire to bring this barbaric war to an end . of course Russia could do that tomorrow by withdraw its force and end its illegal invasion . we be work with all our ally , include the United States , on a plan to stop the fighting . we obviously need agreement among all of we on that — european ally , the United States and other — and we be work closely with President Trump on that , but we be also clear that Ukraine ' s voice must be at the heart of any talk . we warmly welcome the agreement and discussion between the United States and Ukraine , but ultimately the ball be in President Putin ' s court . he continue instead to fire missile and cause the destruction and kill that the hon . Gentleman rightly highlight . it be utterly horrific . the responsibility lie with one person , and that be Vladimir Putin . I associate myself with the Minister ' s comment about the appalling attack on Ukraine last night , and I thank he for his statement today . will he update the House on the support the Government be offer to ukrainian community across the UK at this very difficult time , such as the large ukrainian community in Reading ? I thank my hon . friend for his support , and he rightly reference ukrainian community across the United Kingdom . I have meet the ukrainian community in my constituency , and just this week I meet ukrainian community member to discuss a range of issue , include the horrific abduction of child , which Russia have continue to perpetrate , one of the most shocking and heinous aspect of this conflict . I be really proud of what british community have do across the country to support Ukrainians , and the strong tie that have be build . it be fantastic that we have sign a 100 - year partnership , so that for 100 year into the future , we have that relationship and give that iron - clothe support on every level — economically , diplomatically , militarily , and of course through crucial people - to - people link . our international relationship the world over be dependent on partner country ' confidence that we will stick by our word , and that our ally will do likewise . will the Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , convey that message to the United States of America ? the world — friend and foe alike — be look at our willingness to stick by the commitment that we have make to Ukraine . if we renege on those commitment , every single relationship around the world will be undermine . well , I be not my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) — I represent Cardiff South and Penarth — but I thank the former Foreign Secretary for his comment , his continued support , and his engagement with I on these important issue when I be in opposition . the Government and I have be absolutely clear : our support be iron - clothe , not only now , but for 100 year into the future . I be able to convey our support and our unity on this issue to a bipartisan delegation from the US House Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday . it be an excellent and productive discussion . there be strong unity on these issue . we need to continue to work together , across Europe and in our transatlantic and global alliance , to deter and defend against the threat from Russia , as well as other threat that we face together . I be also one of the member on the list of people sanction by the Kremlin yesterday . I want to make it clear in this House that if Vladimir Putin think that sanction I will silence I , he be very , very wrong . it be no coincidence that the sanction come on the day when I launch a report that I co - author with UK Friends of Ukraine on the issue of the steal child . the report outline in detail the systemic capture , re - education and conscription of ukrainian child by Russia . will my hon . friend outline whether the issue of the steal child be discuss yesterday ? do he support the campaign to return the steal child ? will he join I in call for a UK national day of action to recognise the issue of the steal child of Ukraine on 17 July , the Day of International Criminal Justice ? I thank my hon . friend for her powerful point , and I condemn the sanction against she . she be right to raise the issue of the steal child . I discuss the matter a short while ago with the ukrainian Deputy Foreign Minister and representative of the different campaign on the issue . this be a personal priority for the Foreign Secretary and I . it be one of the most heinous and horrific aspect of the conflict , not only for those child and their family , but because it speak to a wide attempt by Putin to subjugate the people , identity , culture , language and future of Ukraine . that should be clear for all to see . one of the most powerful reminder of that be a picture that I have in my office paint by one of the child , who be thankfully return , but sadly there be still far too many child who have be take by Russia . I look forward to work with my hon . friend on this important issue , and I be very happy to discuss the event that she suggest . if the Government could persuade the Nobel peace prize committee to give the award to Donald Trump on condition that he stop side with the aggressor against the victim , do the Minister think that american policy might revert to one of NATO deterrence , which prevent world war three for half a century after the end of world war two ? the right hon . Gentleman , who I know well , will know that that be a matter for the Nobel committee , and not for I . I do not recognise his characterisation . we be work closely with the United States , Ukraine and all of our european partner to secure a just and last peace for Ukraine . we be very clear about who be on the side of peace — we — and who be on the side of war : Vladimir Putin . member across this House who have be sanction by Putin and his flunky should wear that as a badge of honour . it indicate just how Putin and his flunky feel about the prospect of russian asset be seize . will the Minister update the House on the progress make in move from freeze to seize russian asset to strengthen the hand of our brave ukrainian ally ? I condemn the sanction against the hon . Lady , and against other colleague in the House . we have be very clear that Russia must pay for the damage it be cause in Ukraine and the destruction that it have work on the ukrainian people and industry . I see some terrible example of that when I visit just a few week ago . I have speak about the importance of the extraordinary revenue acceleration scheme and the money that be now available to Ukraine . the Government continue to work closely with ally on the issue that the hon . Lady reference . I have extensive discussion with my G7 counterpart and other about consider all possible lawful avenue for make Russia pay for the damage it be cause , and we will update the House in due course . I thank the Minister for his statement . I also thank the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) for her statement , because it be important that this House speak with one voice on this really important issue . on Tuesday , I ask a question to the Secretary of State for Defence about the change nature of warfare . the Minister raise the terrible image of controller for computer game system be use as weapon . have he have conversation with NATO partner and ally about the change nature of warfare , and will that be feed into the strategic defence review ? we certainly have have those conversation , and we have they regularly . I thank my hon . friend for raise that point . the Minister for the Armed Forces be here with I ; we regularly discuss these issue . I be sure all that will be consider as part of the strategic defence review . my hon . friend rightly point out the effort we be make to deny Russia any of the nefarious mean it use to prosecute its horrendous war in Ukraine . we have take very specific action on some of those matter today , and we will continue to consider further measure . I welcome the word of the Minister , and the UK Government ' s steadfast support for Ukraine , and for far promote european security . will he say a little more about how he be work across Government Departments to support the effort of civil society and business in the UK to ensure that , at every level , we offer the great support possible to Ukrainians ? I point my hon . friend to the important 100 - year partnership that we sign . engagement at every level between civil society and people in every community be crucial . I know that there be very important twinning arrangement between city and community across the UK , and we look forward to strengthen those , and work with those community . I meet ukrainian civil society organisation in Kyiv just a few week ago , and I regularly meet organisation here in the UK . if all of we across this House can create more link , that will give true strength for the future to the foundation on which that partnership be build . the Minister ' s confirmation that the coalition of the willing will not permit the concession of any ukrainian sovereign territory to Russia be most welcome , but I be not sure that I understand how that square with Mr Trump ' s current negotiating position , which seem to be base entirely on that . some 20 , 000 ukrainian child have be steal by the neo - Soviet Union and sovietise . that be a war crime . do the meeting yesterday make it absolutely plain that no recognition of any concession base on war crime will be admit at any time ? the right hon . Gentleman ask important question . he have hear what I have to say about the abducted child , and I completely share his passion , and his horror at what have happen . I will not go into the detail of what be discuss yesterday , but as I say , I speak about this issue very recently with our ukrainian counterpart , and I know that the Foreign Secretary take a very keen interest in it . the right hon . Gentleman also ask about territory . I will repeat what I say : we do not recognise russian sovereignty over any territory illegally seize from Ukraine , include Crimea . I be also one of the member sanction by Putin yesterday for call for this House to do everything we can to stop he . the lesson of a century ago be that dictator like Putin can not and will not stop unless we stop they , and the only way to stop he be through strength — through strong armed force , a strong NATO and a strong nation . how will we invest in our strength to stop Putin and keep ourselves safe ? again , I condemn the sanction against my hon . friend . he ask what we be do to keep our citizen and all our ally safe , and to keep our share security in place . again , I be pleased to be join by the Minister for the Armed Forces . this Government have step up resource for defence and security and UK support to Ukraine . we be increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 , and have an ambition to reach 3 % , and the UK be commit to provide Ukraine with £ 3 billion in military assistance this year and every year for as long as it take . I mention the ERA loan , and we also have export finance support , £ 1 . 6 billion of which be go on supply Ukraine with more than 5 , 000 air defence missile . that be utterly crucial and make a tangible difference , not least in the face of the barbaric attack that we see overnight . I welcome fresh member to the list of those of we who have be sanction . why be President Trump treat Ukraine as the aggressor ? will the Minister remind US negotiator that — together with the United Kingdom — the USA sign the Budapest memorandum , assure Ukraine of its territorial integrity and independence , when that country sacrifice unilaterally its position as the world ' s third large nuclear - armed power ? I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s support on Ukraine , but again , I do not share his characterisation of the United States ' position . we share President Trump ' s desire to bring this barbaric war to an end , and we be work closely with the US and other international partner to secure a just and last peace . as I have say , it be very clear to we that President Zelensky and Ukraine be demonstrate and have demonstrate a clear commitment to peace , include through their participation yesterday alongside the US and our european partner . we know who the real obstacle to peace be : Vladimir Putin . do the Minister agree that , as other hon . member have allude to , last night ' s brutal attack on Kyiv be a timely reminder to government and leader around the world that Russia be and always have be the aggressor in this conflict ? do he agree that that perspective must be central to any talk , as we stand with Ukraine for as long as it take ? as I have say , we be absolutely unequivocal that Russia and Vladimir Putin be responsible for this war , and we be absolutely clear that they be responsible for the ongoing killing and aggression . that be why we stand four - square and iron - clothe behind Ukraine , and we be work with the United States and our european ally to achieve a peace that be just and — most importantly — last . we know that Putin ' s demand and intention remain undiminished , and we need to ensure that Ukraine have the ability not only to defend itself , but to deter future aggression by Putin . this weekend , I will join with the ukrainian community in Torbay to mourn the sad loss of a ukrainian national who have die far from home . almost 20 , 000 child have be steal by the barbaric Putin regime ; can the Minister advise the Chamber on what practical step the Government be take to get those child home ? I be able to discuss some of the practical step that we be take on this important issue just a few week ago with the Deputy Foreign Minister of Ukraine and , indeed , with many of the organisation that be work on it . we be explore further way in which we can assist ; we have already do a huge amount , and I look forward to see step forward take in due course . I be very happy to update the hon . gentleman in write with further detail . I be ashamed to admit that I have not yet be sanction by Russia — I be feel a little bit lonely . clearly , I have to do more to call out Putin ' s barbaric war crime . this House be always at its most united and its most passionate when we be talk about the need for a just peace in Ukraine , so can I ask the Minister very delicately whether he be convince that all our international ally understand that for a peace to be last , it have to be just ? I think that be well understand , and it be a point that we continue to underline in all of our conversation , whether across the Atlantic , across Europe or with other party internationally . it be why we have support the important work on the special tribunal on the crime of aggression ; it be why we be support action on justice for crime that have potentially be commit in Ukraine ; and it be why we be continue to support key institution within Ukraine on these issue and have work within the Council of Europe on these issue , too . we have be very clear that justice must come alongside sustainability and Ukraine ' s ability to deter future aggression and of course to defend itself and its people right now . the assistance that we have provide to our friend in Ukraine have include firefighting equipment , along with training on the use of that equipment . the devastation that take place overnight demonstrate that that assistance be still inadequate , so will the Minister undertake to review with the fire service Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , what extra provision we can provide ? if we can not provide anything , will he reach out to our international partner to encourage they to supply equipment , so that the fire can be bring under control and people ' s life save ? the hon . member raise an important issue , and I know the huge support that have go in . indeed , I work with colleague on some of that in the previous Parliament . one of my friend in Ukraine be call up as a military firefighter in respond to some of those attack on the city . the need be huge , and we have be give a huge amount of support on reconstruction , energy infrastructure and other issue . I be happy to look at the issue he raise and to see whether there be more we can do in that regard . Pope Francis describe pride as the most devious of sin , but I wonder if we can be grant a little bit of indulgence and the Minister can take some pride in colleague from across the House join the fine group of those who have be sanction by Russia . however , those who be do the hard yard be in Ukraine . can the Minister assure we that he believe that the United States still believe in Ukraine ' s territorial integrity , for which those brave Ukrainians be fight ? I have be clear that we be work closely with President Trump and the United States , our european partner and other . I refer the hon . member to the comment I make just a short while ago in response to the shadow Foreign Secretary . we be clear that Ukraine must be at the heart of these negotiation . that be why we be work closely with the United States , with our european partner and , crucially , with Ukraine . that be exactly what be happen in the technical talk yesterday here in London . on Tuesday , I ask the Defence Secretary what our red line would be at yesterday ' s peace talk regard any peace proposal from the US that require Ukraine to cede any of its sovereign territory to Russia . I do not receive an answer . yesterday , US Vice - President J . d . Vance tell reporter : " now , of course , that mean the Ukrainians and the Russians be both go to have to give up some of the territory they currently own . " can the Minister now state that the Government will not support any US proposal that see Russia make territorial gain at the expense of Ukraine upon any permanent cessation of hostility ? the hon . Member will understand that , like the Defence Secretary , I will not be draw on the detail of the discussion yesterday . the only person that that would benefit be Vladimir Putin . we have be clear that we share the United States ' desire to bring this barbaric war to an end . ultimately , though , it be for Ukraine to decide its future . our position on that have not change , and that be why we be work closely with Ukraine , our international partner and other to end the bloodshed and suffering cause by Russia . we be clear on who the aggressor be in this situation . we will continue to stand iron - clothe with Ukraine . I have nothing new to say about this , but since I be one of those include yesterday in the list of those who be no long welcome in the Kremlin — not that I have think I ever would be — I feel compel to place on record that my determination to oppose and expose the brutality and illegality of Vladimir Putin and his Government be great today than it be yesterday . can the Minister do what he can to make sure that our resolve in this House be hear in the Kremlin and also , if necessary , in the White House ? I be absolutely sure that the voice in this House be hear across the world . I have no doubt that the Kremlin be watch what be be say . again , I condemn the sanction against the right hon . member and other Members across the House . this terrible aggression by Russia and by Putin have often have the exact opposite effect of what he intend ; it have strengthen NATO unity , and we have new member of NATO , increase defence spending , increase resolve , increase unity , and increase willingness to stand with Ukraine not just now but 100 year into the future . that be the message that we continue to send from this House and that we continue to send from our ally . it be the message that we must continue to send . at the London talk , do the Government have the opportunity to discuss with ally the deployment of 155 member of the chinese People ' s Liberation Army in support of Russia against Ukraine ? I be not go to get into the detail of the talk yesterday , but I will make it clear to the hon . member that we be act robustly against third - country support for Russia ' s illegal war , include through our sanction . we do so in relation to a series of matter , include the support of military industrial company and other . the Foreign Secretary raise concern with his chinese counterpart on China ' s supply of equipment to Russia and the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea ' s relationship with Russia . we engage very closely on third - country support , in whatever form that take , and we be not afraid to take action where that be necessary . I welcome the UK Government ' s recent commitment to strengthen their energy partnership with Ukraine , which be crucial for Europe ' s energy independence . I recently visit Urenco ' s Capenhurst site , where an advanced nuclear fuel facility be be develop — a market that be currently dominate by Russia . could the Minister outline how the UK Government be advance this technology and what it mean for the UK ' s energy partnership with Ukraine ? Diolch yn fawr ; I appreciate the hon . Lady ' s interest in these issue and her support . we have be do a huge amount with Ukraine to support its energy sector against the terrible attack that have be take place , but we have also be work on how we might co - operate together on energy in the future . that be a crucial question for all of we across Europe . I continually raise with european and other counterpart the issue of remove the dependency on supply from Russia and elsewhere . we need to look at new partnership and way forward in which we can support all our energy need — whether that be through renewable , through nuclear or in other way . this be an important issue , and I thank the hon . Lady for raise it . can the Minister update the House on whether yesterday ' s meeting involve discussion of any potential future co - operation between the US and Russia on energy ? if it do , do he impart to his US counterpart that such an arrangement would be a folly ? as I say before , I will not get into the detail of talk and discussion . we be very clear on our position , which be that we need to support and stand with Ukraine . we be have productive and constructive talk . those continue yesterday with the United States , european ally and other , and I refer the hon . gentleman to the answer I give to the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) a moment ago . how can the Minister describe yesterday ' s talk as productive if the United States continue to make unreasonable demand of Ukraine that the United Kingdom do not support ? I can describe those talk as productive and constructive because they be . it be be report today that the White House be consider lift its sanction on the russian Nord Stream natural gas pipeline — more evidence , in case it be need , that this US Administration be increasingly side with Russia . this be hugely concern , as I be sure the whole Chamber agree . may I please urge the Minister and the Department to use whatever leverage they have with the US Administration to prevent that from happen ? if it do go ahead , what will the Government ' s next step be ? the hon . Lady ask an important question about sanction . the Prime Minister have be very clear that sanction against Russia be a vital part of our armoury , and the UK be commit to maintain our Russia sanction — we be not consider lift they . as the pm say in Paris , in order to get Russia to the table , we need to keep up the economic pressure to hinder its ability to wage war , and we need to deal with all the way in which the war be be fuel and supply . the purpose of our sanction be very clear : to stop Russia threaten and undermine Ukraine ' s sovereignty , territorial integrity and independence ; to help ensure that Russia pay for the damage it have cause ; and to make sure that Ukraine be place in the good possible position to secure a just and last peace . we will continue to work with the United States and all our ally on those important issue . far to the last question , there be rightly concern that Russia continue to bypass sanction through its shadow fleet . what measure be the Government take alongside our ally to prevent that ? since this government come into office , we have ramp up our effort , particularly on the issue of the shadow fleet , on which we first seek sanction at the European Political Community summit , just day after come into office . I can tell the hon . Gentleman that the impact of those sanction have be substantial in constrain and take down Russia ' s ability to wage this war . collectively , the sanction by the previous Government and this Government have prevent $ 450 billion - worth of support to fuel Russia ' s war . that could have pay for another three or four year of military aggression against Ukraine . we will not hesitate to consider further action in this area ; indeed , we have announce some of the big package in recent week . I thank the Minister very much for his answer . I be one of those to be sanction , but what do that sanction mean ? it mean that my superyacht — I do not have one — can not be take to Vladivostok for the summer or for the winter , so I will have to take it to Ballywalter , the village where I be bear and bring up , and put it alongside the rent rowing boat that I use now and again . the sanction will not stop I speak up to tell it straight on Russia ' s crime , and let we remember what those be . there be the steal child , whom the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) talk about . there be the thousand of man , woman and child who have be murder , and the church pastor who have disappear . there be the massacre in Bucha . all those crime anger we . this be about accountability : it be about make sure that the Russians who carry out those crime will be hold to account some day . by the way , I hope they be watch , because a sanction do not stop I , and it will not stop anyone else in this Chamber speak up either . I apologise for that introduction , but as I say early this week , peace be the goal , but not at any price . what discussion have the Minister have with the Ukrainians to ensure they understand that our support be there until the right deal be in place ? what discussion have take place with our american ally to ensure that we be still on the same page when it come to make sure that russian aggression be not reward and that Ukraine ' s sacrifice be always remember ? I think the hon . Gentleman ' s comment , like those of my hon . friend , accurately capture the sentiment of this House . I condemn the sanction against he , but the reaction of he and other member of this House should show everybody in the world — include Vladimir Putin , but also our ally and , most importantly , Ukraine — that our support remain ironclad and undiminishe : it will strengthen rather than diminish . I visit Bucha just a few week ago , and as with colleague who have visit it , those scene will never leave my mind . let alone the horrific scene we have see over the last few week , the fact that that place have suffer so much — it be where priest be murder and child be abduct , and just hour before I be there , further missile come in and kill civilian — should leave nobody in any doubt whatsoever about who be the aggressor . it be Vladimir Putin and his regime . it be his war of aggression . Ukraine be the party that be serious about peace . we will work with Ukraine , the United States and our european ally in the endeavour to find that peace , but the ball be now very much in Vladimir Putin ' s court . London Sudan Conference ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the London Sudan conference . Co - host with the African Union , the EU , France and Germany , the London Sudan conference convene Foreign Ministers , major donor and humanitarian leader to galvanise co - ordinate international action on the conflict . discussion focus on ensure humanitarian access , protect civilian and support a Sudanese - lead peace process that preserve Sudan ' s territorial integrity . a co - chair ' statement set out the share principle of an immediate ceasefire , rejection of external interference , opposition to parallel government , a return to a civilian - lead transition and a principled approach to full , unimpeded humanitarian access . although this be not a pledge conference , international partner do announce over £ 800 million of support to address the humanitarian situation . this include a furth £ 120 million in UK aid for this year , which will reach over 650 , 000 people with food , nutrition support and emergency assistance , include for survivor of sexual violence . it follow our sustained push to ensure aid reach those in need , include through access corridor such as the Adr é crossing from Chad . the UK will continue to lead international effort to end the conflict in Sudan . our immediate goal be clear : to bring an end to this destructive war , to protect civilian and to get aid to where it be need most . our vision for Sudan be to work with the sudanese people and international partner to deliver the democratic and peaceful future that they deserve . I thank Mr Speaker for grant this urgent question . it be so important that we shine a light on this conflict , which be the bad humanitarian crisis in the world at this time . Sudan be experience the most extreme hunger crisis . conflict - relate famine , mass displacement , and extreme and sexual violence and killing continue to devastate million of people . about half the population — 24 . 5 million people — be experience acute food insecurity , with 650 , 000 face catastrophic hunger . the conflict have lead to an unprecedented displacement , with 8 . 6 million people internally displace since the start of the conflict and nearly 4 million people force to flee across border . unfortunately , the crisis continue to get bad . in recent day , we have see the Rapid Support Forces attack the Zamzam camp , which house about 500 , 000 displace people , and the Sudanese Government allegedly attack a market in western Darfur , which be speculate to be one of the bad single incident of the conflict . I share the Minister ' s aspiration , as I be sure do the whole House , but we can not underestimate the scale of the challenge . I be pleased that the Government take part in the conference , but it be very disappointing that it be not possible to get the other participant , particularly the arab nation , to sign up to an agreement at the end of it . it be also disappointing to find the RSF declare an alternative Government within a few day of the conference . what be the Government do to encourage a great role for the African Union , particularly in discussion at the United Nations ? generally , there be a view that if the African Union be more involved , it would be more difficult for Russia to veto UN resolution . secondly , what be we do in relation to the United Arab Emirates and its role in the conflict , which have be significant ? this be a truly tragic sequence of event for the people of Sudan . the right hon . Gentleman have long have an interest and he be right to call I to the House to answer question . we have hope that at the conference last week , we would be able to issue a communiqu é agree by all party . as he identify , there be a whole range of country with an interest in Sudan . we be at real risk at the moment not only of a further degradation of the situation for those in Zamzam , northern Darfur and across Sudan , but , as he say , of a declaration of parallel government , none of which will lead to the peaceful democratic future that the Sudanese have long hope for . the Foreign Secretary take the decision to try for this conference in an attempt to ensure wide agreement among the party , because he recognise that there must be no hierarchy of conflict . the situation in Sudan be catastrophic and we be make every effort . the conference be the beginning , not the end , of our effort to try to reduce the suffering in Sudan . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . let I begin by support the remark of my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) and congratulate he on secure what be a very important urgent question . many million of innocent sudanese civilian have be catch up in what be a barbaric conflict . they deserve peace and dignity . they be face the most appalling , dire humanitarian crisis . it be a fact that red line have be cross in the conflict , and that can not be allow to stand . we all want to help chart a course to a meaningful peace for the people of Sudan , and we be aware of the various pillar articulate in the London Sudan conference statement . we all agree on the need for an immediate end to the fighting , on prevent the partition of Sudan , and on the need for urgent humanitarian access . crucially , the Foreign Secretary ' s conference do not see any new practical measure agree with the African Union and other partner to help the war party into a ceasefire and an end to the conflict , and , importantly , to deter the way in which the conflict be be escalate , because there have be no de - escalation whatsoever . support a transition to a civilian - lead Government be clearly crucial , and it must be lead by the sudanese people . what practical diplomacy be the Foreign Office and the Foreign Secretary do to help international process such as Cairo to stay on track and to build confidence among the sudanese civilian and political force ? finally , the Minister mention the additional £ 120 million in humanitarian aid announce by the Government for 2025 - 26 . will he inform we which organisation the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be partner with for the delivery of this new aid , whether delivery have start and whether it be actually make any impact whatsoever ? will he also confirm that in parallel to announce this new aid , he be work to keep border crossing open and press for the proper safety net to ensure that this aid end up with those who genuinely need it , and not in the wrong hand ? like the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , the shadow Foreign Secretary raise important question about the African Union . we think it be particularly important that we co - host this event with the African Union ; clearly , this be an important conflict with wide implication for those in the neighbourhood and in east Africa . we be take practical step , and we conduct the conference in closed session in order to enable the kind of frank discussion that be require to advance towards a more peaceful solution in Sudan . I would not wish to give the House the impression that we have make dramatic progress towards an end to the violence in Sudan . we be all familiar with the terrible report that continue to come in — even this morning — of event in Darfur and across Sudan . through the conference , we be able to bring great unity among the international community on what the necessary next step must be and on the importance of maintain open border crossing , which , as the shadow Foreign Secretary set out , be vital , in addition to try to ensure that humanitarian access can be exercise right across Sudan . we have be in discussion with Tom Fletcher , the emergency relief co - ordinator , who have today speak to some of the key participant . in term of practical step , I can confirm that we remain in direct contact , through our special envoy for Sudan , with both the RSF and the sudanese armed force . we be absolutely clear that we need a civilian process towards civilian Government . the Government be right to co - ordinate this conference as a first step on the path to peace . it be obviously disappointing that it be not possible to establish a contact group at the end of the conference , but I know the Minister will be work hard to progress bilateral talk , not least with the external actor in this conflict such as the UAE and Egypt . I want to put the spotlight on woman and girl in this conflict , who be experience high level of sexual violence . what discussion be there on the protection of woman and girl , and on the further step that could be take both to ensure the safety of those experience trauma today because of their experience and to protect woman and girl in the future ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to put the focus on violence against woman and girl in Sudan . it be absolutely appalling — the late report be lurid and graphic in their detail of what be befall woman and child right across Sudan . the Minister for Africa have be lead international effort to maintain a spotlight on these question . he chair a UN Security Council briefing on conflict - relate sexual violence in Sudan just last month , and be also at the UN Security Council in November far highlight this issue . this conflict be disproportionately affect woman and child , and the UK will remain completely focused on do everything we can to bring that to a close . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Sudan conference in London present an opportunity to generate international consensus for a path to peace in Sudan ' s civil war , the world ' s large conflict . it be deeply disappointing that the conference fail to establish a contact group for the conflict , as such a group could build international political will to move towards an end to the fighting . will the Minister therefore outline what new diplomatic initiative he will pursue to establish a contact group ? I welcome the announcement of £ 120 million more for humanitarian aid , but with aid access be wield as a weapon of war on both side , can the Minister assure we that it will reach civilian ? Gender - base violence be a terrible feature of the war , so what step can be take to protect woman and child ? I be also deeply concern by report that other nation be supply arm to the war faction , particularly the report that the United Arab Emirates have provide weapon to the Rapid Support Forces , which be allege to have commit mass civilian killing and be accuse by the US of genocide in Darfur . will the Minister outline what step he have take to stop the flow of arm to ensure that british export be not use in Sudan ? the shadow Foreign Secretary also raise those question . I be happy to write to the House with further detail about aid delivery , both in relation to the £ 120 million in further funding and the concern report over recent day about restriction in aid access , particularly in Darfur . once the situation become clear , I be happy to provide a full update to all party on the practical question about aid delivery . the hon . Lady ask about the practical success of the conference and what be next on the diplomatic front . the statement from the co - chair , which include not just the UK , but the African Union , the EU and other , attempt to capture what be an important and frank set of discussion over the course of the day , and set out five principle . it go far than any other recent statement , call for a ceasefire , reject external interference , oppose parallel governance and support a transition to civilian - lead government . my Foreign Office official have be talk to all party with an interest in Sudan , include the two belligerent , to make it clear that the statement be the strong view of the international community and that we expect to see it put in place . it be true , as the two most recent question have set out , that we be not able to secure a contact group at the conference . I would not want the House to think that , as frank and behind closed door as it be , the conference be therefore a failure . the fact that this be difficult be all the more reason why it be important for the UK to show leadership and to bring the African Union and other to the table to discuss these issue . what be happen in Sudan should shock we all . unicef have warn that child as young as one be be rape . More than 220 case of child rape have be report since 2024 , so we need outrage and , more importantly , action . can the Minister confirm how much of our aid , if any , be be spend on support survivor of sexual abuse and violence , and also how we be use our role as penholder on Sudan at the UN to push for action specifically on sexual violence ? my hon . friend have work extensively on these issue , and I know her commitment to they . I will write to she with a full breakdown on which part of our aid programme be work with survivor . as I set out in answer to an early question , the Minister for Africa have lead effort at the Security Council on ensure that the whole international community be focus on the atrocity that she have just describe . we be also lead effort at the Human Rights Council to establish and renew the mandate for the UN fact - find mission , which will be crucial to support future accountability effort in Sudan . I appreciate the pressure on the Minister ' s official , but do the Minister agree that this disaster play out in Sudan be under - report , and , therefore , may I encourage he in the future to take every opportunity to come to the House voluntarily with statement , rather than rely on urgent question , to give he the opportunity , which he have quite rightly take today , to spell out where we be in this awful situation ? I be always happy to come to the House , but let I just clarify that I be not the Minister with policy responsibility for Sudan ; that belong to the Minister for Africa in the Lords . since take office , the Foreign Secretary have show strong personal commitment to this conflict . he be intensely aware of the many conflict in the world , but appreciate that this be the one that be cause the great humanitarian disaster . there be a danger of appear to create a hierarchy of conflict , and the Foreign Secretary be personally commit to ensure that that be not the case , and that be why he take the leadership that he do last week . Sudan be the world ' s big humanitarian crisis , and we know that there have be a particular toll on woman and girl , as other member have mention . some 80 % of hospital in conflict - affect area be not function , and maternal death have spike , so can the Minister say little bit more about how aid will support hospital in the region ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . as I have say in previous answer , we be very focused on the fate of woman and girl in Sudan . we have be work through the United Nations and with the emergency relief co - ordinator to ensure that the necessary aid be in place , whether that be for the function of hospital , to support survivor or to protect the mechanism to prevent civilian suffering . I will update the House once the position be clear , give the event of the last few day . I congratulate the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) on secure this urgent question and lay out the unimaginable horror of what be currently happen in Sudan . there be a very real danger that the catastrophe in Sudan will spread to neighbouring country . since 2023 , an estimate 800 , 000 sudanese refugee have flee to Chad , which be already one of the poor country in the world and rank no . 1 in the list of country at risk of genocide . what assessment have be make of the impact of overseas aid cut to the likelihood of genocide occur in Chad , and what be the Government do proactively to prevent a genocide in Chad ? the hon . Gentleman ask an important question . since the conflict begin , 3 . 6 million refugee have flee to neighbouring country . that of course include Chad , but also Egypt , South Sudan , Uganda and the Central African Republic . many of these country I know well , and I serve in South Sudan for the Department for International Development for two year . these be country with delicate political balance and that have see recent incidence of severe conflict . what happen in Sudan make a difference to neighbouring country . I do not think that what be centrally at issue here be UK aid to Chad . what be centrally at issue be violent displacement from Sudan , and we will remain focused on those question . I commend the Foreign Secretary for co - host the conference and for give this situation the political and diplomatic attention that it warrant . the crisis in Sudan be awful . the UN have warn that " never in modern history have so many people face starvation and famine as in Sudan today " . the UN put that down to the deliberate starvation tactic by the RSF and the SAF . can the Minister outline what further measure the Government be take to end the deliberate obstruction of food aid by the war party ? the UK condemn the grow body of evidence of serious atrocity be commit against civilian in Sudan . the escalation of violence , kill of civilian , sexual assault of woman and restriction of humanitarian access must end . that be why in January the Foreign Secretary visit the Sudan - Chad border and raise awareness of the conflict . it be why we host the conference last week and be in regular touch with both the party themselves and all those with influence , include regional player , the United Nations and major donor . we be try to do everything we can to ensure that humanitarian access be properly restore . might it be expedient if we use our intelligence resource to expose and shame those who be fuel the conflict through arm the antagonist ? we be clear that there should be no external interference in Sudan and that a continuation of this conflict serve no one . it be why we take the effort last week that we do , and we hold the conference in closed - door session in order to allow the frank possible exchange of view on the way ahead . the scene from Sudan be beyond harrowing . there be brutal murder , million at risk of starvation , and million more have be displace , with woman and child watch their son , father and husband be brutally kill and many of those woman and child be victim of the most horrendous sexual violence . in Newcastle - under - Lyme , I represent a number of people from the sudanese community — either bear in Sudan or whose parent be bear in Sudan . they be watch the tv in horror , fear and sorrow . what we be do to engage with and support the british sudanese community here in the United Kingdom ? my hon . friend speak about the horror for british sudanese resident who be look back at home and see such atrocious scene . I be sure that the Minister for Africa will be happy to meet with my hon . friend and his constituent to discuss the issue far . I have sudanese constituent in Lincoln , and I know the horror that they feel each and every day look at this imagery . do the Minister agree that religious freedom must remain a key pillar of the UK ' s foreign aid policy ? that say , with Sudan now rank as one of the bad country in the world for christian persecution accord to open Doors , will he confirm whether the protection of religious minority will be a condition — indeed , a priority — of the distribution of foreign aid to Sudan ? freedom of religious belief remain a real priority for the Government . on my way to the House , I be with our new envoy for freedom of religious belief , meet with the Baha ' I community , who have suffer in Yemen and Iran . this remain an important question for the Government , and we will remain focused on it through the envoy . the Minister rightly condemn the violence against woman and girl in Sudan . will he update the House specifically on what assistance be be provide to the victim of female genital mutilation ? those woman be literally castrate . will he ensure that we be provide assistance to those poor woman ? I have hear the House ' s interest in the fine detail of which element of our aid programme be work with survivor , and I commit to provide that further information in due course . I be deeply concerned by the ongoing conflict in Sudan and in particular the sexual violence that be bring to light so shockingly by the hon . member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) . when the Minister next engage with his counterpart in South Sudan , will he raise the case of Dr Ding Col Dau Ding ? he travel from Norfolk to South Sudan to practise medicine shortly after independence and save many life across east Africa in his time there . just a year later , he be shockingly murder , and his family — my constituent — have be fight for justice for almost a decade . will he meet I and the family of Dr Ding to discuss how they can finally secure justice for their beloved brother and son ? I be not familiar with the case . I will discuss it with the Minister for Africa and ensure that the hon . member get a proper response . I thank the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) for secure the urgent question . despite the barbarity of Sudan , it seem to be the forget conflict . what step be be take to investigate and prevent the transfer of arm to Sudan via third country who may have be present at the conference over the weekend and be ally of the UK ? we be clear in the co - chair ' statement , as we have be in many other place , that we do not want external interference in this conflict . we be take every step we can to try to ensure that we get back to a diplomatic solution and back to a civilian transfer towards civilian rule , which be what the Sudanese so desperately need . the Minister clearly understand the issue and respond to our question , so we thank he for that . have , like other , raise the sudanese war on numerous occasion and the act of depravity and war crime that have take place over the last number of year , I and many other be dishearten to see the end to any semblance of peace talk . however , we must not lose heart and give up . the people of Sudan deserve a well chance of hope and a future without live in fear . how will the Minister facilitate further peace talk ? what discussion have take place with ally to produce a co - ordinate global effort to stop the torture , the maiming and the killing and to bring peace to all ? I say with regret that the two protagonist of the conflict do not appear prepared to enter into serious talk at the moment . that be why they be not invite to the conference . the conference be not an attempt to mediate a peace deal as that be not possible if neither participant be prepared to do so . we make the judgment that the conference be so important to try to cohere international support towards the next step to try to reduce the violence . we be work with all our partner to try to do that . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 28 April include : Monday 28 April — Second reading of the Football Governance Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 29 April — remain stage of the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill . Wednesday 30 April — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Bill , follow by motion to approve the draft Licensing Act 2003 ( victory in Europe Day Licensing Hours ) Order 2025 , follow by motion to approve a money resolution relate to the Crime and Policing Bill . Thursday 1 May — general debate on Parkinson ' s Awareness Month , follow by general debate on prisoner of conscience . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the early May bank holiday at the conclusion of business on Thursday 1 May and return on Tuesday 6 May . the provisional business for the week commence 5 May will include : Tuesday 6 May — general debate on the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe and victory over Japan . Wednesday 7 May — remain stage of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 8 May — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 9 May — the House will not be sit . could there be a local election come up ? I very much hope that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and everyone here have a perfectly spectacular Easter . I be sure I speak for the whole House in record my sadness at the death of his Holiness the Pope , who be , in his work and in his life , the embodiment of faith , hope and charity . if I may , I would like to start with something small but important . my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) recently ask the Secretary of State for Education , in a write parliamentary question , whether she have visit any private school since July last year . the junior Education Minister , the hon . member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , reply that " the Secretary of State for Education and the wide ministerial team visit a wide variety of education setting , include private school . the Secretary of State for Education prioritise visit to our state school , which serve 93 % of pupil in England . " all that be no doubt true but it be not an answer to the question that be put . all ministerial visit be log by the Department , so it would have be and remain easy to compile the number . the Leader of the House have make clear on many occasion her commitment and belief that member of this House should receive proper answer to their question . will she take up the matter with the Secretary of State for Education and see that a proper answer be give ? a few week ago I talk about how the Prime Minister be steadily be mug by reality , and we have see this again in the last few day with the Government ' s u - turn on the ban on source photovoltaic cell build with slave labour in China . the same can be say for the Government ' s energy policy as a whole . it be important to put before the House the fact that Labour ' s 2024 manifesto promise to cut bill , boost energy security and create cheap , zero - carbon electricity by 2030 , accelerate to net zero by 2050 . it try to allay public concern by promise " a phased and responsible transition in the North Sea that recognise … the ongoing role of oil and gas in our energy mix . " nine month on , we can see how that be go . the Government have already have to u - turn on their infeasible commitment to zero carbon electricity by 2030 . most recently , the situation with British Steel in Scunthorpe have underline the deep incoherence of their overall approach . by ban new oil and gas licence and prevent new exploration , the Government be commit the UK to great dependency on import oil and gas at high cost , with high emission and under less democratic control . in so do , they be not advance environmental justice or economic resilience ; they be accelerate a decline in energy sovereignty that will leave this country more polluting , less secure and , ultimately , poor . if we do not produce our own oil and gas , we will have to buy it . the difference be that it will come from overseas , and import energy be not only more expensive but have a far high carbon footprint . I remind the House that , for example , import liquefy natural gas involve cool gas to 160 ° below zero , ship it thousand of mile from Qatar and regasifye it at a port in this country . the net emission be up to four time high than those from North sea gas . crucially , UK territorial emission go down , but overall emission , include import , be high than they would be . this be not an honest policy . labour ' s manifesto talk about the importance of energy security , but refuse to allow new exploration do not reduce our vulnerability ; it increase it . energy , after all , be national security . it be industrial strategy . it be heat our house and fuel our car . the idea that a major economy should voluntarily give up control of its energy supply before alternative be well advanced be not progressive — it be reckless . the problem go somewhat wide . the Government talk about a green industrial revolution , but the more expensive import energy we have , the hard that will be to achieve . not just steel but chemical , ceramic and fertiliser all require large amount of gas and will do for year to come . if energy be unreliable or unaffordable , those industry will continue to struggle whatever the fond imagining of the Secretary of State . worse still , the Government ' s policy will squander capital and skill that might have go into safely manage the UK ' s remain hydrocarbon asset . the extra revenue that would have help fund the transition will now be lose to the many other country that welcome such investment , while the Government turn their back on a sector that still employ 200 , 000 people and contribute billion in tax revenue . I ask the Leader of the House whether she share my view that we badly need some common sense here . we all want an effective and just energy transition , but that start with one principle : control what we can and use our own resource responsibly and transparently while build the clean energy system of the future . instead , the Government have choose a path that will increase emission , raise cost , weaken the economy and tie Britain ' s future to foreign power and volatile market . that be not leadership ; that be an abdication . I be sure the thought of the whole House will be with Catholics in this country and around the world as they grieve Pope Francis . as the shadow Leader of the House say , Pope Francis embody the very good of we with his deep faith and commitment to the poor , the weak and those deal with conflict and destitution . I once again put on the record my thank to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to Mr Speaker and to all the House staff for the professional and speedy way they recall Parliament for we over the Easter recess . they have dedication and professionalism at their core . I take this opportunity , which I do not think have be do yet in the House , to pay tribute to Rory McIlroy on finally get one of the great sporting achievement — the golf grand slam — and be the first European to do so . the resilience and mental strength he show be unbelievable , and he be a role model of great sportsmanship . I also wish good luck to all those take part in the London marathon this weekend . the shadow Leader of the House raise a number of point about the Government ' s energy and climate change strategy , but he misunderstand the economic of the situation . the way we will get energy security and low bill in the future and over the long term be by have our own energy security and our own clean energy supply . we have to get ourselves off fossil fuel because to get that energy security , we have to become a price maker , not a price taker . home - grow energy be the only way we will get control over our price and get off the fossil fuel roller coaster . as a country , we have great asset : we be an island nation with an ability to generate offshore and onshore wind , tidal and nuclear energy . this Government have waste no time . we have lift the ban on onshore wind . we have establish Great British Energy . we have approve nearly 3gw of solar , deliver a record - break renewable auction , kick - start carbon capture and get the nuclear planning reform under way . that be how this country will bring down energy bill and get the energy security we need . we have to get ourselves off the fossil fuel rollercoaster . the shadow Leader of the House need to look at the economic of the situation . I notice that the Chamber be very busy today — unlike many member — as we look forward to the local election . the shadow Leader of the House do not want to use this opportunity to make his party ' s pitch for the forthcoming local election , perhaps because the Conservatives be not quite sure what their pitch be . People have not forget the chaos and decline that his party leave this country in after 14 year of failure and sleaze . the Labour party be put money in people ' s pocket with our boost to the living wage , with wage rise fast than price ; we be fix the NHS , with waiting list down for six month in a row and cut by 220 , 000 since July ; our new free breakfast club will give kid the start to life that they need ; we be take back control of our train and bus ; and , as I see at the weekend , we be take swift action to tackle crime and antisocial behaviour by seize and crush off - road bike , which I do myself . that be the difference that Labour make in power . I be still not quite sure what the conservative party ' s strategy be at the election . perhaps the shadow Leader of the House would like to enlighten we . be it what have be propose by the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , in the form of an alliance with Reform ? if that be not their strategy , why have he not be sack ? the Leader of the opposition use her flagship election interview on the " Today " programme this week to tell we of her one big achievement : tory party unity . I nearly spit out my tea ! Tory Members can barely muster a cheer for she at Prime Minister ' s question , and the shadow Justice Secretary be in open leadership campaign mode . in fact , this week I have see a letter that the shadow Justice Secretary send to all conservative local election candidate with his clear leadership pitch and the offer of " lunch with Robert " . by the way , it be all on House of Commons - head paper , Madam Deputy Speaker , which be highly questionable . it be blatant manoeuvring , and a strong leader would have sack he by now . be it not the truth that , at the election next week , a vote for the Conservatives be a vote for Reform , and a vote for Reform be a vote for the Conservatives ? we have be deal this week with the sad passing of Pope Francis . I be also deeply sadden by the shocking , cowardly and deadly terrorist attack on innocent tourist in Jammu and Kashmir . the victim and their family be very much in my prayer . I sincerely hope that the perpetrator be swiftly bring to justice . will my right hon . friend the Leader of the House take this opportunity to convey this Parliament ' s heartfelt condolence to the indian people and to condemn that callous attack ? that horrific terrorist attack in Kashmir be utterly devastating and , as my hon . Friend say , a cowardly act . my thought and those of the whole Government be with the affected , especially those who have lose love one . last week , my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) be deny entry to Hong Kong while make a private trip to see her son and meet her three - month - old grandson for the very first time . she be give no reason by the local authority as to why she be refuse , so it seem reasonable to assume that her only crime be be a british parliamentarian . she tell I that go all that way only to be bundle on to the next flight home with no explanation be a big shock , and that she be close to tear . her son be wait for she and her husband just a short distance away in the arrival lounge , but she never see he . this be extremely worrying and have far - reach and concern implication . to be clear , my hon . friend have not be make aware that she would not be welcome in Hong Kong , and it be a purely private visit . the Liberal Democrats be concerned that this could have a chilling effect on all parliamentarian who speak up for freedom and democracy . we can not and must not accept our democracy be undermine by allow the intimidation of UK parliamentarian . will the Leader of the House ask the Foreign Secretary to make a statement on how the Government intend to engage in a clear - eyed manner with authoritarian country that appear to be create hidden blacklist of british parliamentarian ? I thank the hon . member for raise this matter on the Floor of the House , because I know that it be of deep concern to all Members . I know the hon . member for Bath well — I have know she for a number of year , and I enjoy our exchange when she be the hon . Lady ' s predecessor — and I be shock and deeply sadden to hear of this incident . she must be so upset not to have have the opportunity to meet her grandson , have be deny entry to Hong Kong in this way . the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) be right to say that it be unacceptable for a Member of Parliament to be deny entry to another country simply for be a Member of Parliament , albeit on a private visit in this case . the Government have relay our deep concern over this incident to the Hong Kong and chinese authority , and we will continue to press these issue with they over the come month . she be right to say that our democracy and our ability as member of Parliament to speak freely in this place , and to not have that jeopardise when we travel abroad , be fundamental to what the House of Commons be all about . I recently visit a great regional organisation , North East Youth , in my constituency and meet member of the Peer Action Collective , an inspire group of young people work to prevent violence within the education system . Lucy , Penny and Dan deliver a compelling presentation on the need for clear communication and well listen to young people in school . can we have a debate in Government time on how we can implement more effective way of understand the cause of youth violence and disruptive behaviour and support young people before an escalation to violence ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Lucy , Penny and Dan , and all those involve in the Peer Action Collective , which sound like a very good initiative . the Government take youth violence incredibly seriously . we have establish the Young Futures programme , and we want to bring all those partner together to take these issue forward . it would make a very good topic for a debate . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I join the shadow Leader of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , and the Leader of the House in express condolence to Catholics all over the world on the death of the Pope . his leadership of the Church will be sadly miss . in term of the business , I commend the Clerks who support our Committee on the work they have be do to try to get colleague to agree to have a debate next Thursday . good luck ! we manage to achieve it , thank goodness . may I ask colleague who have make application and be on our waiting list to respond speedily once they have be offer a date ? the business on Thursday 8 May will include a debate on St George ' s day , which should have be hold today , but for the fact that government business take precedence . on Thursday 15 May there will be a debate in the Chamber on solar farm . next Tuesday there will be a debate in Westminster Hall on compensation for criminal injury . we be not propose to have debate in Westminster Hall next Thursday because it be the day of local election . on Tuesday 6 May there will be a debate on parking regulation , and I remind the House that it will take place at 11 . 30 be , because we will be on Monday hour . there will be further debate in Westminster Hall . on Tuesday we see the systematic murder of Hindu pilgrim in Pahalgam in India . the sad reality be that the terrorist group think to be responsible for this , Lashkar - e - Taiba , be a pakistani organisation that deliberately target innocent people in Jammu and Kashmir . already the Indian Government have revoke visa , close the border and expel official from Pakistan as a result . probably most importantly , they have suspend the Indus water treaty . we need the Foreign Secretary to make a statement to the House on what could end up be a quickly escalating situation between India and Pakistan . tonight there will be a vigil outside the indian high commission . I will be represent the opposition , and I understand that there will be representative of the Government as well . we must give our reassurance and support to the Government of India in ensure that they apprehend these terrorist and that those responsible for support they be also bring to justice . my understanding be that the Pakistani Government and the pakistani military have condone these attack . I be sure the Leader of the House will join I in condemn these terrorist atrocity and will agree on the need to ensure that people who visit Jammu and Kashmir be hold safely and do not have to suffer such incident yet again . I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for let we know about future debate . like he , I anticipate that next Thursday will not be as popular as today seem to be , for obvious reason . I absolutely join he in condemn the terrorist attack in Kashmir . this country always stand shoulder to shoulder with other country — in this case India — that suffer these horrific terrorist attack , which be cowardly act that we resolutely condemn . conversation be ongoing , as he will know , to provide the support that we can , and we will also provide that support to any british national affect . I thank he for raise this important matter . rise — member will see that there be a lot of interest in business question today — about 80 wish to speak . I therefore ask any member who have a long question to rewrite it . it should be no long than two or three sentence . the good people of Kidsgrove be promise significant improvement to their town as part of the Kidsgrove town deal . however , Simon Tagg , the conservative leader of Newcastle - under - Lyme borough council , alongside the former Conservative Member of Parliament , over - promise and under - deliver . they know they do not have the fund available . they should now say sorry to the people of Kidsgrove . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on openness and transparency in public funding ? I thank my hon . friend for once again raise this important matter with I . he be a strong advocate for Kidsgrove and his constituent . I be really sorry to hear about the frustration with the town deal . he be absolutely right that thing be over - promise and under - deliver , and that be why the people of his constituency reject the conservative party at the last election . last month ' s fire at Cirencester be at least the third at a battery energy storage system already this year and resident be understandably worried when they be construct near to their home , yet labour ' s planning reform will make build they in village such as Lower Penn , Swindon and Wombourne in my constituency even easy . may we have a debate in Government time on the safety of battery energy storage system , on planning regulation and on how we can ensure that local community have proper oversight and a real say ? I be sorry to hear about the fire in Cirencester . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that we need to get the balance right by ensure that such facility be safe and be safely operate while at the same time ensure that we have the infrastructure that we need , and not just today but in future , for battery storage and other clean energy supply . we be take step to ensure that local community be consult on these matter and that they benefit from these facility when they come to their local area , but we make no apology for say that we have to sprint towards that clean energy superpower that we need to be . next week mark the beginning of Coeliac Awareness Month , a time dedicate to raise awareness about coeliac disease , a serious autoimmune disease for which the only treatment be a strict gluten - free diet for life — it be not a fad . while coeliac disease affect one in 100 people in the UK , just 36 % be medically diagnose , leave an estimate half a million people potentially face debilitate symptom yet be in the dark as to their cause . so will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to mark this important month and to help raise important awareness of this terrible disease ? Coeliac Awareness Month be an important time and I commend my hon . friend for raise this issue in the House . she be right that we need to do more to raise awareness of that debilitate disease , especially in relation to treatment and access to affordable gluten - free food , and that would make a good topic for a debate . the Leader of the House will probably know that last night , elsewhere in this House , the campaign to return Ukraine ' s steal child be launch , with cross - party support and a very large number of people present . some 20 , 000 ukrainian child have be abduct and take to the neo - Soviet Union . that be a war crime , as be the bombing of Kyiv and Kharkiv last night , and Putin be a war criminal . will the Leader of the House consult the Leader of the House of Lords and try to ensure that no person who support President Putin , however grand , be give a platform that would enable they to address these Houses of Parliament ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise the issue of the steal child of Ukraine and the event to launch that campaign in the House yesterday . there have just be an urgent question about this matter . the Minister of State in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , be very clear about our unwavering support for Ukraine and our condemnation of the continue action of Russia and Putin , especially overnight but also over a long period of time . we stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine . we be establish the coalition of the willing to support what Ukraine want go forward . the only country that be stop peace be Russia , under Vladimir Putin , who could stop this war tomorrow if he choose to do so . I be sure that we will continue to discuss these issue . I be proud to be the MP for Crystal Palace . on Saturday , many of my constituent will travel to Wembley to see Crystal Palace take on Aston Villa in the FA cup semi - final . a win will see Crystal Palace continue their quest for their first major trophy since the 1991 Zenith Data Systems cup . will the Leader of the House join I in wish Crystal Palace football club good luck for the weekend ? I be often invite to support other football club , but my husband be an Aston Villa fan and , obviously , I be a Manchester City fan , so we have a lot of other stake in the FA cup semi - final this weekend . however , I be happy to join my hon . friend in wish Crystal Palace the very good of luck on Saturday . there be proposal by Scottish Borders council to close a number of local nursery , include those at Channelkirk , Yetholm , Glendinning , Westruther , Ednam , Cockburnspath and Fountainhall . there be strong local opposition to those plan . local nursery be vital to rural community such as mine , and keep they open ensure that we can attract and retain young family in the Scottish Borders . do the Leader of the House agree that nursery throughout the United Kingdom should be protect , and will she allow time for a debate to discuss the importance of nursery provision in rural community ? I be sorry to hear about that and the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . the Scottish Government should be prioritise nursery provision and ensure that people in rural constituency such as his have access to that vital provision . he will know that , as the consequence of the Budget , the Scottish Government receive a boon of over 20 % more per person than the rest of the UK , so they have no excuse for the action they be take . I be sure that everyone in the House be concerned about the use of public money . in my constituency , a council be employ leaf blower to blow leave around a redundant car park , and a county council have spend £ 11 million on level a field for a school playing field and £ 16 million on a bridge to nowhere , so may we have a debate on how we can well scrutinise the use of public money in local government ? my hon . friend raise a really important matter . local people want to know that their council tax be go towards the service that they want to see in their community . nothing frustrate our constituent more than see thing in their area and their community that they perceive to be , frankly , a waste of money . this Government be commit to bring more accountability and audit into local government , and we will bring forward legislation on that soon . just over three week ago , the Minister for child and family have to be drag , kick and scream , to the Dispatch Box to be force into extend the adoption and special guardianship support fund , which have expire the previous day , leave thousand of vulnerable child and their adoptive parent and kinship carer in limbo . not once during that 45 minute urgent question do she say , when she triumphantly announce £ 50 million extra to continue the fund , that the individual support grant be about to be cut by 40 % . that information be sneak out in a private letter last week , during recess , to local authority and charity . will the Leader of the House demand that the Education Secretary come to the House , make a statement , and take question from hon . member who feel that they be , I be sure inadvertently , mislead by the child ' s Minister that day , so that we can understand the impact on some of the most vulnerable child in our society ? I know that this be a matter of deep concern to many member across the House , and I commend the hon . Lady for continue to raise the issue , which also affect a number of my constituent . the Government have ensure that we have the £ 50 million arrangement for this year , but she will recognise that the increase demand on the adoption system , which be a good thing , mean that we have have to make money from the fund go a bit far for many family . however , I hear what she say about the Government ' s accountability . there be a write ministerial statement on the subject on Tuesday , but I will ensure that she and other hon . member be able to question and speak to the Ministers , as appropriate . dozen of family across Merseyside , include my constituent Gemma and Paul Lucas , have be leave financially and emotionally devastate by the action of a home improvement company , Celsius Home Improvements Ltd , and its director Frank Deary . customer have to pay 60 % of cost up front to Mr Deary , but have be leave with home that be uninhabitable and , in some case , dangerous . the Liverpool Echo have report that it have see document show that Mr Deary ' s company be provide quote post 2022 with celsius branding , but be trade as Clearmetric Ltd . a wind - up order be make against Clearmetric Ltd in the Manchester district registry on 7 January this year , more than three year after Celsius Home Improvements be dissolve in February 2022 . what can the Government do to prevent individual like Mr Deary and his associate Liam McGrath from liquidate one company , which owe more than £ 1 million to customer , and go on to scam other by set up other company , one of which I be lead to believe be call Merseyside Construction Ltd ? most importantly , what can be do to get justice and a full refund for my constituent Gemma and Paul ? I be really sorry to hear about this troubling case . my hon . friend have use her voice and her platform as a Member of Parliament to raise some very serious issue , and I commend she for that . phoenixe , whereby director dissolve a company to avoid debt , only to set up a new one , be wrong . we be committed to stamp the practice out , and Companies House now have great power to do that . my hon . friend be right that people like her constituent need great recourse when service and product go wrong or be not deliver and they can not get the accountability that they need . rise — Order . I want to get as many people in as possible , so please keep question short . unitary council election , county council election and mayoral race be take up a lot of the headline at the moment , but in local government , there be an often regrettably forget subset of incredibly hard - work people who offer to serve on parish and town council — people like Nic Brown , who , after 25 year , be stand down from Chearsley parish council in my village . the amount of work that people put in for no remuneration , just for love of a place , be extraordinary . in a lot of parish and town council in my constituency , not only be the election uncontested , but there will still be vacancy after next Thursday . can we have a debate in Government time to thank everyone who put themselves forward to serve on a town or parish council , and to discuss how we can encourage more people to come forward to serve their community through those council ? I join the hon . gentleman in pay tribute to all those who serve on our town and parish council — often , as he say , for little reward , in one sense . our community need they , and they be vital . as he will know , we be bring forward change to local government , because we want to ensure that people can represent their area and deliver the kind of change and service that people want . that be why we have the devolution Bill come forward . tomorrow , we would have be debate the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill . however , we have not see the impact assessment , which I understand have be prepare but not publish . many of we have serious concern about the safety of the legislation . significant advance notice of what be in the impact assessment be really important for we , so that we can scrutinise it . will the Leader of the House say when the impact assessment will be publish ? now that it have be prepare , will she ensure that we can see it immediately , and that it be not withhold ? I reassure my hon . friend that the impact assessment be absolutely not be withhold . I have be ask about this a number of time , and I make it clear on previous occasion that give the number of amendment to the Bill , the impact assessment would take some time . I be glad that in order to allow that time , the promoter of the Bill move the date for its next stage to 16 May . the Government be absolutely committed to ensure that the impact assessment be publish imminently , long before 16 May , so that people can consider the issue in it . business across my constituency , the wide west of England and south Wales be give a rather glum Easter present in the news that heavy good vehicle will be ban from the M48 severn bridge from the end of May . that will lead to expensive and environmentally damaging diversion , and one local haulier call it a " hammerblow " . National Highways estimate that the bridge will cost between £ 300 million and £ 600 million to fix . will the Leader of the House ensure that the Department for Transport bring forward a clear plan of action as soon as possible ? I will absolutely ensure that the hon . Lady get a full ministerial reply about why that have happen , and when those repair will be do , so that HGVs can get back on to the bridge as soon as possible for her constituent . may I ask the Leader of the House to join I in support the Football Governance Bill , which will have its second reading on Monday ? I appreciate that she do not support read football club , but will she also offer her support to its fan at this very difficult time , as we wait to hear the outcome of the ongoing negotiation ? absolutely . I be delighted that the Football Governance Bill will receive its second reading in this House next week ; it be an incredibly popular piece of legislation among the many member from across the House who , like my hon . friend , have a club in their constituency . the Bill seek to ensure that fan and community be put at the heart of our football governance , and that protection be in place against rogue owner and those who do not have the financial mean to support their club properly . may I associate myself with the comment about the passing of Pope Francis ? as a Catholic , I very much appreciate they , and I wish the good to the conclave in select our new Pope . as be mention early , if the current trend continue , more than 1 . 5 % of my constituency will be cover in solar farm . one of my main concern be about the use of battery energy storage system , which my hon . friend the Member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) mention . Green Hill solar farm in my constituency will have a very large one . they pose a huge risk of fire . those fire release toxic fume , and put they out pollute the water and take day — if the solar panel can ever be put out . I know that there may be a debate on the issue , but I also ask the Leader of the House to speak to the Secretary of State about the severe risk pose by BESS , because application be be push through that create serious risk for our community . as I say in answer to a previous question on this issue , we need to get the balance right : we need to ensure that these facility be safe for local community , and that the risk of fire be mitigate as far as possible , while also get much - need infrastructure for battery energy storage , which be absolutely critical to the future of our energy security and our economy . I will ensure that the hon . Lady get a ministerial update on those matter . the new traffic calm scheme in Bierton have be cause chaos , noise pollution and danger in my constituency . almost 2 , 000 people have sign Matthew Grolimund ' s petition call for an urgent review of the choose layout . will the Leader of the House join I in urge Buckinghamshire council to plan its road building and roadwork well , and will she reaffirm this Government ' s commitment to improve our road infrastructure ? poorly plan and deliver roadwork be of great frustration to my hon . friend ' s constituent , and to the constituent of Members from across the House . I join she in urge her local council to ensure that the roadwork do not cause the level of disruption that she describe , and this Government be commit to ensure that . family in Holt have be promise for year a new primary school to replace the current building , which be too old and too small to cater for this grow market town . however , the Conservative - lead county council have break promise and dither and delay , point to minor fluctuation in the birth rate as a pathetic cop - out . will the Leader of the House consider schedule a debate on investment in our primary school ? also , how this decision reach ? will she facilitate a meeting with the relevant Minister to ensure that parent , pupil and staff in Holt get the new school that they need ? I be sorry to hear of the dither and delay in get the school in Holt that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent have long be promise . as he know , the provision of place be a matter for local authority . they have be give the funding to provide place where they be need , so the local authority really have no excuse but to get on and provide the school . I recently visit the hygiene bank in Medway in my constituency . its volunteer provide essential hygiene product to people who need they , restore their dignity and confidence . give that 4 . 2 million adult in the UK live in hygiene poverty , will the Leader of the House consider a debate on how we tackle this issue , and specifically on remove the 20 % vat on soap by reclassify it as an essential hygiene item ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight hygiene poverty , which be a real issue for many in this country . tackle poverty in all its form be a priority for this Government . I be sure that she would not expect I to make decision on or talk about future level of vat , but this be a really excellent campaign that I think will get wide support from across the House , if she want to take it far . yesterday , like many member across the House , I attend the event stage by the MS Society in Portcullis House . I be give a handout that say that an estimate 3 , 770 people in my constituency suffer from multiple sclerosis . I have meet a number of they and their support group over the year , but that number be surprising . it be estimate that each year , another 179 will be add to that number . next week be MS Awareness Week , so it would be an appropriate time for a ministerial statement on that subject , and I hope that the Leader of the House will oblige I with that . I pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for all the work he have do in support steel and British Steel in his constituency , and for his attendance at the recall . he make a really good point about MS Awareness Week and the real challenge face by people live with chronic disease . give that it will be MS Awareness Week , I will certainly bear in mind his request for a statement . to get to school , William Cartwright , who be in year 6 at Thorn primary school in Bacup , have to cross the very busy Burnley Road at a point where there be no lollipop service , 20 mph zone or zebra crossing . that be his daily experience . he say : " car travel very fast . we often run across the road , and I ' ve nearly be hit several time . " William have launch a petition call for Lancashire county council to install a safe crossing . he say : " we should not have to wait for an accident to happen before something be do . " I could tell a similar story about the safety of road around almost every other primary school in Rossendale and Darwen . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate William on his initiative ? give how oversubscribed Westminster Hall and Adjournment debate on this subject have be , will she agree to a debate in Government time ? I certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate William on highlight the issue of road safety in Bacup and across Rossendale and Darwen . he be absolutely right : road safety matter attract a great deal of interest in this House . we will soon deliver an update strategic framework for road safety . I will ensure that that be bring to this House , and I will consider his request for a debate . some 77 % of LGBTQ + millennial be consider start a family , but only three out of 42 integrate care board in England give female same - sex couple access to fertility funding . other ask for six to 12 round of self - fund treatment before funding be consider . as we celebrate Lesbian Visibility Week , could we have a debate in Government time about the discrimination that same - sex couple face when access fertility treatment ? I join the hon . Lady in support Lesbian Visibility Week , and she raise a really important matter . we should be support all couple of whatever kind who want to start a family , with all the joy that that bring and all the support that those family can bring to the baby and so on . I will ensure that the hon . Lady get a full ministerial reply , but I be sorry to hear about the postcode lottery she have describe . last week , I co - host a youth engagement workshop at the brilliant Tokko youth hub in my constituency to help inform our Government ' s national youth strategy . young people from a range of organisation , include Luton ' s child in care council , CHUMS , the Centre for Youth and Community Development , Luton Roma Trust and Luton Youth Council — to name but a few — all give excellent feedback . do the Leader of the House agree that it be vital to recognise a wide range of young people ' s voice in develop strategy that affect their future , in order to break down barrier to opportunity for all ? I thank my hon . friend for facilitate that workshop . she be absolutely right ; we want to co - produce the national youth strategy , and conversation and workshop like the one she have describe — which be part of what I think be the big conversation ever with young people — be critical to ensure that we design the service and support that young people want . I know that like I , the Leader of the House will be a massive fan of acrobatic gymnastic , so she will be aware that over the Easter break , Team GB go over to Luxembourg to compete with 22 other nation . what she might not be aware of be the outstanding contribution make by Spelthorne Gymnastics in bring home five gold medal and three silver medal from the european championship . will she join I and member from across the House in congratulate Team GB and Spelthorne Gymnastics on this outstanding effort ? I think the hon . Gentleman be go to ask I to perform a somersault — we will save that for later , maybe . [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] I be think more of the political variety — if you don ' t mind ! I absolutely join the hon . member in congratulate Spelthorne Gymnastics on their fantastic achievement of five gold and three silver in GB acrobatic gymnastic . on a recent visit with the court Minister , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , to Shropshire ' s justice centre , I be remind about the dedication of our magistrate . can we have a debate in Government time about the importance of magistrate in the justice system ? since the 12th century , magistrate have play a critical role in deliver local justice , and now do so as volunteer , many with decade of service . currently , there be not a long service medal award ; do the Leader of the House agree that there really ought to be ? I join my hon . friend in thank all the magistrate — as he say , they be volunteer , and they be the backbone of our justice system in this country . I think the issue he have highlight be one that would gather a great deal of momentum and support , and I implore he to continue campaign for it . if the Leader of the House will indulge I , I would like to quote somebody who I suspect have read more book than I have : Albert Einstein . he say , " the only thing that you absolutely have to know , be the location of the library . " library be more than just a place of knowledge — they be the lifeblood of local community , bring people of all background together . however , in Leicester , the labour mayor be look to slash library service in some of the most economically deprive area of my great city , and I know the same will be happen in other constituency up and down the country . cut our library service disproportionately affect the most vulnerable in our society , so will the Leader of the House schedule a debate in which we can praise our public library and the work of our wonderful librarian across the country , and urge the Government to give more support to local authority to protect those crucial service ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . library be long - stand service in many of our community , and they provide a great service to local people . they do not only provide access to book ; these day , they provide access to service , the internet and all sort of other thing , to ensure that people have the knowledge and access they need . I be sorry to hear of the plan in Leicester , which I will look into for the hon . Gentleman , but we have give local area a record settlement in the local government budget , which I hope mean that they can keep their library open . last week , I visit Papa ' s fish and chip restaurant in Worksop , where I meet the owner , Nick . he tell I about his reconnect campaign , which encourage people to come off their screen and spend time in good company over a first - class plate of fish and chip . he also show I the safe space he have create for SEND family . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Nick for run such a thoughtful and caring campaign ? papa ' s fish and chip shop in my hon . friend ' s constituency sound like a great place to go and reconnect by put away our phone and have a great plate of fish and chip . perhaps I will join she there some time soon . recently , the Bank of Scotland announce the closure of all five of its branch in my constituency . as part of the follow - through , the organisation Link make an assessment of access to cash , and in particular whether a free - to - use cash machine should be provide . however , it be bind by very strict criterion , mean that it have to take into account other cash machine — cash machine that might not be available 24 / 7 , might not have disabled access , and might not be stock up with cash on a regular basis . will the Leader of the House ask Treasury colleague to review those criterion to make absolutely sure that people have access to cash machine ? access to cash in community like the right hon . Gentleman ' s be an issue that get raise with I pretty much every week in this House . I will certainly make sure that a Minister come back to he on those criterion and whether they be appropriate now that we be see more and more bank withdraw from our high street , and whether access to cash be really viable . my local authority , Comhairle nan Eilean Siar / Western Isles council be fast approach its 50th anniversary . form in 1975 , it bring together the many island that make up Na h - Eileanan an Iar and give the Outer Hebrides a unified identity . my father serve as a councillor , and my brother currently serve ; they be among many councillor and official who have give service to the island over the year . our local authority be not much love , but by wish Comhairle nan Eilean Siar a happy 50th anniversary , will the Leader of the House show that they be much appreciated ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Western Isles council and wish it a happy 50th anniversary . it sound like he come from a great dynasty of local politician , and here he be as a Member of Parliament , represent his home area . I thank the Leader of the House in advance for the very large number of follow - up letter she will be write after this marathon session . I know that it be probably quite a chore , but we really appreciate that she do it so conscientiously . in a brief exchange about NHS dentistry on 13 March , as part of the formidable campaign be wage by the National Federation of Women ' s Institutes on that subject , I be quite impressed when the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say that the problem require , " not simply tinker with the system as it be , but fundamentally rethink it " — [ Official Report , 13 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 1298 . ] I be sure he be absolutely right about that , so will the Leader of the House urge he to make a statement to the House on what progress he anticipate make on this very important issue ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for thank I for all the letter that my brilliant civil service team support I with , get the answer to the question that people ask I during business question . make sure that member get answer to the question they raise be something that I take incredibly seriously . the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that dentistry have be break in this country , that access to NHS dentist be not what we would want it to be , and that more fundamental change be need to ensure that we get more dentist appointment and look at the dental contract — I be lobby about this issue by my own dentist every time I go . I will ensure that the House be keep update on progress . Aldershot Town football club be go to Wembley . the FA trophy final on 11 May will be the first time in the club ' s history that the red and blue army have play under the arch , with over 17 , 000 fan there to spectate . that club be also the first football club in the country to achieve the armed force covenant gold status award for the work it do in our community . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate everybody at the club on reach this prestigious final , and for give all of we in Aldershot something to cheer about ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Aldershot Town on reach the fa trophy final against Spennymoor Town . what a great achievement for her local club . a lot of football club be be mention today , and I be sure she might want to raise this next week on Second Reading of the Football Governance Bill . I also join she in congratulate Aldershot Town on be the first football club to get the armed force gold standard achievement . Harrogate ' s LGBT community be appal by homophobic comment make by Anthony Murphy , a conservative town council candidate , who describe it as a " truth " that act of homosexuality be of " grave depravity " and " intrinsically disorder " . an organisation he direct even claim that AIDS be a disease spread by the depraved , and he call on the Church to " purge the filth " . this be not a vetting failure ; the local Conservative association know and select he anyway . it have refuse to withdraw support or answer whether he be the same Anthony Murphy who be link to organise Enoch Powell rally . the local association have either go rogue , or the nasty party be well and truly back as the Conservatives chase vote from Reform . I have write to the Leader of the opposition but have have no reply . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on candidate standard and party accountability ? I be sorry to hear of the appalling homophobic remark be make by a councillor , and a conservative councillor at that . the hon . Member have raise they here this morning , and I hope that those on the Conservative Front Bench have hear his question , because action need to be take . the conservative party need to show , like the rest of we , that such remark be completely unacceptable and will not be tolerate in our democracy or any of our party . stoke - on - Trent have witness a proliferation of house in multiple occupation in the city in recent year , with family home be convert with little notice give to local resident . work with Councillors Shaun Pender , Daniela Santoro and Adrian Knapper and with Labour ' s Maggie Bradley , we be prosecute a case for Stoke - on - Trent city council to adopt an article 4 direction , but this be prove more difficult than it should be . can I encourage the Leader of the House to bring forward legislation to remove this permit development right for everybody across the country , so that HMOs can be properly regulate and look after in community ? I know that HMOs be a big issue in my hon . friend ' s constituency , in mine and in many other . the Renters ' Rights Bill , which be now in the House of Lords , will take some action on regulate hmo , but he be right that we could go far on these matter . I encourage he to continue to raise they , and I will make sure that he get a ministerial reply . my constituent , Paul Pearson , tragically lose his granddaughter Lauren follow an accidental drug overdose . he later discover that she have be introduce to drug by someone at her dance school . safeguard concern be not pass to the Disclosure and Barring Service . it be suggest that the individual also be not dbs - register . when I query that with the Home Office , it say that Home Office legislation around regulate activity only provide eligibility for check and do not make they a requirement . I be sure that the Leader of the House share my concern on this . will she ask the Government to make time for a debate on DBS and how it can be strengthen to protect child ? I be sorry to hear of the case that the hon . member raise . the question of whether DBS check be wide enough , suitable and so on do get raise in the House regularly . I will ensure that she get a ministerial reply , but she might want to apply for an Adjournment debate ; I be sure that many people would attend . it be good to meet the Safeguarding Alliance this morning about its concern , which I share , regard the patchwork of different Departments , body and regulator with responsibility for safeguarding . that allow known offender to slip through the gap and continue offend . an overarching safeguard regulator could close those gap , and with a Cabinet Office review reportedly be undertake on quangos and arm ' s length body , will the Leader of the House arrange for Government time for mp to be part of that ? can she advise when the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , which might allow opportunity for well regulation around safeguard datum and information sharing , will be come back to the House ? the Bill ' s Report stage be on Wednesday 7 May , so my hon . friend may want to raise some of these issue then . tackle safeguard and ensure that we have the right safeguarding be a cross - Government issue , as she will know . it cover many Departments , but we have a number of measure come forward in various piece of legislation , which I hope will improve the safeguard environment . I encourage she to raise these matter during the passage of some of those Bills . the UK Government have a legal and moral duty to ensure that the Union succeed . it be therefore imperative that minister do not go on solo run and make unhelpful comment in the context of Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union , give that support for Northern Ireland remain part of the UK have remain unchanged in generation . will the Leader of the House therefore consider provide time for a debate on the Government ' s responsibility to speak with one voice and their commitment to uphold Northern Ireland ' s place in this Union of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I will certainly ensure that the Minister have hear the hon . member ' s question . this Government speak with one voice — we certainly try to — and I be sorry if that have not be the case in what she describe . this Government be commit to the Good Friday agreement in all its part , and she will know that these issue be a matter for those who live in Northern Ireland . resident of the Throston ward in Hartlepool , in common with community right across the borough , tell I that they be feed up with crime and antisocial behaviour follow 14 year of Tory failure that destroy neighbourhood policing . do the Leader of the House agree that Labour ' s pledge to put a name police officer in every community , as champion by our brilliant council candidate , Lyndsey Allen , be a game changer in tackle antisocial behaviour and crime in Throston , Hartlepool and the country as a whole ? I join my hon . friend in thank Lyndsey Allen for support these issue . he be absolutely right that we have to put neighbourhood police back in our community . we be committed to get 13 , 000 more officer into neighbourhood police over this Parliament , and that be what we will do . the Crime and Policing Bill be pass through Parliament , and it will give the police the power they need to tackle antisocial behaviour . just before the recess , I be unexpectedly a guest of the NHS at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Gateshead . it be a result of my delayed cancer diagnosis 17 year ago . I sometimes get cellulitis , and it need very urgent intravenous antibiotic . I go in on Thursday night , and my record do not catch up with I from my local hospital until Monday . can we have a debate in Government time , so that the Secretary of State understand the urgent need to have digital record , so that our local hospital can pass on our detail to hospital in other part of the country in a timely fashion , allow treatment to be undertake quickly ? I be sorry to hear of the hon . member ' s admission to hospital , and it be good to see he here in his place today as fit and well as ever . he be absolutely right , and people might not understand that hospital hold individual record , and there be not a national database for datum share across hospital . many people imagine it just happen , and it do not . I can assure he that the Health Secretary be committed to break down these barrier and make sure we have get the datum share we need and the digital record that he describe so that people can get the appropriate treatment when they need it . Beira ' s Place be a sexual violence support service run by woman , for woman . it open in 2022 in response to the need for single - sex counselling service for survivor of violence against woman and girl in the Edinburgh and the Lothians area , include West Lothian , which cover a large part of my constituency . can we have a debate in Government time on the importance of single - sex counselling service for survivor of violence against woman and girl ? will the Leader of the House join I in thank the all - woman team at Beira ' s for the invaluable support they provide ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of single - sex space and counselling when it come to tackle violence against woman and girl and deal with the aftermath of that . she will know that the Supreme Court ruling over Easter give great clarity on these matter for service provider , such as those in her constituency , and she might want to raise the great work that they do at the next Women and equality question on 7 May . the former chief executive of Woking borough council , Ray Morgan OBE , have be identify in a public interest report as the chief architect in bankrupt my council , leave it with debt of £ 2 billion . do the Leader of the House agree that the very least the Government could do be remove his OBE for service to local government , and will she agree to hold a debate in this House so that we can discuss Government policy on remove honours when wrongdoing have be commit ? I be really sorry to hear about the hon . Gentleman ' s case . he may be aware that there be a special committee — it be not a Government committee — that look at where there be a strong case for nomination to be remove . I urge he to contact that committee , and I will write to he with the detail . he be absolutely right to say that we need to make sure that people be hold accountable for their action . where they have receive nomination , that be something that we should consider . like the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) , more than 3 , 000 people live in and around my constituency have multiple sclerosis , include Simon , who manage a full - time job only because his employer provide the flexibility that he need to cope with this unpredictable and degenerative condition . neurological condition such as MS be lifelong and often invisible , and profoundly impact on people ' s life . will the Leader of the House grant time for a debate on ensure that neurology be a clear priority in the 10 - year plan for the NHS ? I will absolutely join my hon . friend in highlight MS Awareness Week , which be next week . I thank her constituent Simon and his employer for be so flexible . as she describe , live with these chronic condition require good employer that be flexible , as well as a range of other support service . give that it be MS Awareness Week next week , I will make sure that the relevant Ministers report to the House on what we be do . nigerian Christians be at the forefront of christian persecution across the world . as the majority of Christians worldwide enjoy the start of Holy Week , many in the Plateau state of Nigeria have a different experience . on Palm Sunday , an hour - long massacre occur in Zikke village , where some 54 people be kill and 103 household destroy . the entire village be displace . eyewitness report military inaction , the selective disarmament of christian youth , and violence by armed Fulani extremist . will the Leader of the House schedule a debate or a statement to ascertain what step the UK Government will take to support the protection of nigerian christian community and to address the ongoing violence ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise the important issue of freedom of religion or belief for all — in this case , in Nigeria — which we raise with the Nigerian Government on a regular basis . we need to put an end to the inter - community violence that we be see in Nigeria . I know the Leader of the House have a sweet tooth , so she may be disappoint that she miss out on the very first chocolate festival hold by the Oxford pub in Shawclough over the Easter break . the festival be attend by 800 people , and it be hold in conjunction with the chocolate maker Slattery . as well as have a great time , customer and the pub donate free Easter egg to child in need in Rochdale . will she join I in congratulate the McNeeney family on put on the festival , and will she join I for a candy and a shandy in Rochdale soon ? I will certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate the McNeeney family on put on the chocolate festival , which sound like a really great event . it ensure that those who perhaps could not afford to indulge over the Easter weekend have the opportunity to do so at the Oxford pub . I gently say to he that next time he should bring we back a few chocolate , so that we can make sure that they be up to the standard that the whole House would want . all of we make sacrifice when Parliament be recall to save the steel industry , and mine be miss a slice of a cake that be bake to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Balerno farmer market . I meet the baker , Emma Galloway , at St Mungo ' s Easter service last week , and she explain to I that my slice be go . the House can imagine how I feel . my low - calorie alternative be early - day motion 1091 , on the 20th anniversary of the Balerno farmer market . [ that this House congratulate Balerno Farmers Market on celebrate its 20th anniversary on 12 April 2025 , mark two decade of consistent service to the local community and surround area ; recognise the market ' s vital contribution to promote local food , sustainable farming and small independent producer , while strengthen the sense of community and support the local economy in Edinburgh South West constituency ; commend the dedication of the organiser , stallholder , volunteer and community partner whose continued effort have make the market a well - love and successful monthly event since its founding in 2005 , which help define balerno ; acknowledge that the market have grow into a community hub , support not only local commerce but also art , culture , fairtrade and environmental awareness , reflect the value of resilience , sustainability and civic pride ; and congratulate all those involve in the Balerno Farmers Market on this significant milestone , wish it continue success in the year ahead . ] the early - day motion highlight that the market be vibrant and define balerno . it support the local economy and , through the Fairtrade group , also support sustainable farming right across the world . will the Leader of the House join I in wish Balerno farmer market a happy 20th birthday , and suggest that Emma bake a slightly big cake next time ? I will absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Balerno farmer market . it sound like the baker produce great cake , which be so popular that none be leave for he , so next time they definitely need to make a bit more . rise — order . we have around 15 to 20 minute leave for these question , so please help each other out . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Labour ' s brill and totally commit Greater Lincolnshire mayoral candidate , Jason Stockwood ? he be truly put Lincolnshire first , have just complete his countywide cycle tour , raise over £ 16 , 000 for charity across the area — and he be the only candidate to brave Lycra in public . I will absolutely join she in wish Jason Stockwood , whom I know well , all the very good in stand to be the first Mayor of Greater Lincolnshire . he will make a fantastic Mayor for Lincolnshire , and I hope people will vote for he next week . fantastic local business , such as SugarBeat on the a140 in south Norfolk , be be hammer by draw - out roadwork that have be sign off by Norfolk county council and carry out by EDF , with little care for the financial damage cause . can we have a debate in Government time on hold utility company to account when roadwork run riot ? there be nothing more frustrating than poorly deliver roadwork , especially roadwork that come on top of other roadwork or just after they . I think this would make a very popular topic for a debate if he be to apply for one . early this month , my hometown football club , Clydebank FC , be crown West of Scotland premier division champion . on Saturday , they play their final home league game of the season at Holm Park , and it will be my pleasure to be there and see they lift the trophy . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate all the player , the manager , the coach , the staff and the Bankies supporter on such a wonderful and successful season ? do she wish to join I — never mind the FA cup semi - final — in West Dunbartonshire on Saturday to celebrate the Bankies win the league ? I will absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Clydebank FC , know as the Bankies . what a great honour it will be for a new Member of Parliament to see their football club lift the league trophy at their home ground on Saturday . I be slightly otherwise engage this weekend with my own football interest , but I look forward to see he with the trophy at Clydebank on social medium . Burnley be a premier league town once more . I be sure the whole House — though perhaps not the hon . member for Blackburn ( Mr Hussain ) , who be not in his place — will join I in congratulate Alan Pace , Scott Parker , Josh Brownhill and all the lad at Burnley football club on their ascension to the premier league . they be back where they belong . up the Clarets ! will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate they ? we have really have a football theme today . I put on the record my congratulation to Burnley FC on get promote to the premier league . I look forward to Man City put a few goal past they next season . my constituent John and Evelyn Preston contribute to Digital ' s pension scheme before 1997 . they expect discretionary increase to counter inflation , but since Hewlett - Packard take over in 2002 , their pension have stagnate — in some case , people have experience 60 % loss . thank to the Pre - 97 Alliance , we know that this issue affect hundred of thousand of people across the UK . will the Leader of the House find time to discuss how this injustice can be address ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter . there be nothing bad for pension holder than see the value of their pension erode because uprating be not happen in line with inflation . pension scheme trustee have a duty to act in the good interest of their member , and I will ensure that a Minister look into this case for she . just this morning , my office receive notice of the intent to cancel two key bus service in my constituency — the 125 , which connect Castle Donington to Coalville and into Leicester city , and the 129 , which connect Ashby - de - la - Zouch to Loughborough and be the only service for some of my rural village . will the Leader of the House join I in express concern about these propose cut , and call on Leicestershire county council to work with I and local bus company to save these service to keep my community connect ? I be sorry to hear that Leicestershire county council be cut vital bus service in my hon . friend ' s constituency . we have confirm over £ 1 billion extra for local bus service such as those she describe , and we be bring forward — in fact , it be pass through Parliament at the moment — the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , which will give local community much more say on bus service in their area . on 16 April 1850 , the Cumberland Co - operative Land and Benefit building society first open its door . the Cumberland , which be headquarter in my Carlisle constituency , be celebrate 175 year of serve my constituency and the wide area . will the Leader of the House please join I in wish the Cumberland building society a happy birthday and thank it for the part it be play in support Labour ' s pledge to build 1 . 5 million new house ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Cumberland building society on its 175 year — what a remarkable achievement — and on all the work it be do in support house building and homeowner in her constituency and beyond . Bar Etna , a fantastic family - friendly restaurant in Altrincham , have suffer to the tune of thousand of pound from a business rate scam . thankfully , the licence of the fraudster be suspend , but they have since change their company name and be back scamme small business again . it be the fourth time they have pull this trick . can we have a debate on the business rate scam crisis in our country , so that we close for good the loophole be exploit by these con artist ? I be sorry to hear that business in my hon . friend ' s constituency have be victim of business rate scam . we be committed to reduce the number of these scam , and we will take step to do that , but I will ensure that he get an update from Ministers . Girlguiding and its volunteer provide endless opportunity for girl and young woman in my constituency of Ribble Valley . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Waddow Hall Trust group of Girlguiding member on successfully campaign to secure Waddow Hall , which provide adventure and outdoor education for future generation of young people ? will she make time for this House to discuss the importance of outdoor education within the Government ' s national youth strategy ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate her local girl guide on their campaign to secure the future of Waddow Hall . the girl guide do a great job , and they be a vital part of the youth service and youth community activity that we want to see across the country . fly - tipping be a blight on local community across Cramlington and Seaton Valley in my constituency , yet under Conservative - run Northumberland county council , fly - tipping have increase by a massive 76 % . the Government have take action to keep our community safe and tackle fly - tipping . can we have a debate on the action be take to strengthen enforcement , and how we be clear up the mess the Conservatives have leave nationally and in Northumberland ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that fly - tipping be a blight on many of our community , and we be determined to take further step . we be currently seek power in the Crime and Policing Bill to issue statutory fly - tip enforcement guidance , but I know she will want to raise these issue as the Bill pass through Parliament . the Hawthorns care home in Buxton recently celebrate 90 year of service to our local community . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in send the warm congratulation to the staff , the resident and their family . this stand in stark contrast to the Conservative - lead Derbyshire county council closing care home and adult day care centre across High Peak , include the sudden and shocking closure of Queens Court in Buxton early this month . will the Leader of the House arrange a debate in Government time to consider the future of care home and day centre run by local council ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of care home such as the Hawthorns in his constituency . I be sorry to hear that his local county council — the Conservative - run county council — be close care home at this time . we have see a record settlement for local government , so the county council should really reconsider its decision . get a drive licence in Ilford South have become almost impossible . learner be have to wait for more than 18 month to book their test , because rogue individual and unscrupulous driving school be book up the space and charge resident up to 10 time the cost of a single test . learner be be exploit and honest instructor punish . would the Leader of the House facilitate a positive outcome , include a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss common - sense solution for our constituent who be lock out of drive by these manipulative practice ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that , and he be absolutely right that access to drive licence test and other thing be not what we would expect they to be . the Secretary of State have take step this week to address some of these challenge , and we can go far . I will ensure that he be give a ministerial update on these important issue . UK home bin 1 . 7 billion piece of plastic every week . thank to company such as the British Dudley - base business Iron and Velvet , there be viable alternative to use plastic in cleaning product . would my right hon . friend help encourage other and this place to ditch plastic , and could we have a debate about the importance of reduce plastic waste ? my hon . friend highlight an important issue . we do need to reduce plastic waste , and I will ensure that the House play its part in reduce plastic waste . we want to see a circular economy , which mean more recycling and less use of plastic . engineer at JCB have pioneer the world ' s first hydrogen combustion engine that can power heavy machinery . that world - lead british engineering have be develop and build by my constituent . these digger be unable to drive on UK road , but thank to this Labour Government , that be go to change on 29 April . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome this change , which will bring increase job and investment ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the engineer at JCB in his constituency on their brilliant work . I be pleased that this Government have be able to unlock road access for these digger , which will unlock further job opportunity in his constituency . in Corby , resident of Hooke Close be deny the chance to object to plan for a huge warehouse to be build immediately next to their home , and they now live under its shadow . this be due to admit failure by North Northamptonshire council , include consult the wrong street . resident take the matter to court , and the judge criticise the council , but the case have to be rule out because it be out of time . the council — which do not consult the resident , but consult the wrong street , and which the judge criticise — be now pursue the very people it fail for £ 5 , 000 in legal cost . do my right hon . friend agree that authority should be hold accountable when serious consultation failure occur , and that resident should not be financially penalise as a result of the incompetence of the consultation ? this sound like a troubling case in my hon . friend ' s constituency . he be right that high - quality consultation for development be imperative , and it do not sound as though that happen or that proper procedure be follow in this case . I will certainly raise it with Ministers for he . too many of my constituent in Bolton be trap in overcrowded home . as a result , too many parent be leave with no option but to share room with their adolescent child . outdated overcrowding rule and a shortage of housing mean that plea for help be routinely dismiss . do my right hon . friend agree that family deserve well and that everyone deserve a decent home that be fit for purpose ? as my hon . friend will know , this Government be commit to provide more affordable home , so that we can tackle the issue of overcrowding and poor housing that she describe in her constituency . I think this would make a good topic for a debate . I be sure the Leader of the House be tired of hear about the constant road chaos in Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , but my constituent and I be at our wit ' end . conservative - run Staffordshire county council continue to ignore the chaos at the A51 - A53 Blackbrook junction , fail rural area such as Baldwins Gate yet again . will the Leader of the House grant time for a debate on Labour ' s serious plan for fix our road and how we actually get Conservative - lead council to do that ? I be sorry that my hon . friend have yet again have to come to the House to raise with I the poorly manage roadwork in her constituency . Staffordshire county council really need to get a grip on they , because it sound like it be make a real mess . from conversation with my constituent , it be clear that after 14 year of Tory government there be a systemic issue of overcrowding in social housing . under the Housing Act 1985 , a living room be class as sleep accommodation , which mean that many family in my constituency find themselves stick on the housing register for extended period , with no priority when bidding and often with teenage child have to share a bedroom with a complete lack of privacy . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time to address this critical issue ? housing waiting list be far too high in this country . that be why we need more social housing . it be why we need more housing , full stop . that be what the Government be commit to deliver . leaseholder in Hendon and across the UK be be rip off by manage agent charge excessive fee while deliver poor service . that be why I , along with colleague on the Labour Benches , have call many of those company into Parliament to explain themselves . in the recent White Paper , the Government set out a strong plan to end the feudal leasehold system for good . may we have a debate in Government time on what can be do at constituency level to support the reform , and specifically to help the Government hold manage agent to account while the reform be enact , lower the unfair and unaffordable service charge that leaseholder be be force to pay ? leasehold and unscrupulous manage agent be a huge issue for many of our constituent . we be commit to end the feudal leasehold system for good . we have the commonhold White Paper . the Minister have announce how he will bring into effect measure from the previous Government and we will have a leasehold reform Bill later in the session . my hon . friend ' s constituent will get the recourse and the service they deserve . at the last session of business question , the Leader of the House kindly join I in congratulate one of my constituent , Jean Gallagher , who have just receive a provost award from the Renfrewshire provost for her 25 year voluntary service at the Johnstone learn centre . little do we know that at the same time as recognise Jean ' s incredible service , the council be plan cut to that vital service , leave it in jeopardy . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn those cut , and do she agree that the local SNP - run council should instead be use the money it have be give by this UK Labour Government to invest in these vital service ? absolutely . this Government have end austerity in Scotland by give the Scottish Government the big boost to their budget that they have ever have . they have the money ; they have the power . we really should not see service be cut like they be . Rob Oliver , Kevin Joynes , Matthew Humphries and Tom Hayward from Redditch will be row across the Atlantic ocean in December as part of a challenge know as " the World ' s Toughest Row " . the challenge will involve they row 3 , 000 mile from the Canary Islands to Antigua to raise fund for three fantastic charity : the Frank Bruno Foundation , Arrive Alive , and redditch Self Defence and Youth Engagement , which help to educate young people in Redditch on the danger of knife . will the Leader of the House join I in commend these self - describe " four ordinary bloke " for take on such an extraordinary challenge to support these critical cause ? I think there be an invite to Antigua come there , Madam Deputy Speaker , but alas no . I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate and wish well those four bloke — Rob , Kevin , Matthew and Tom — on their amazing charitable endeavour . we need very short question . pothole be a blight across my constituency and cost we £ 500 each time they damage our car , and the reason be that our road have not be maintain by the Conservative - run county council . do the Leader of the House believe that on 1 may my constituent should vote to fix our pothole and vote for all the brilliant Labour candidate across Loughborough , Shepshed and the village ? absolutely . after more than a decade of conservative chaos , our road be leave in a shocking state . if people want this country ' s pothole fix , they need to vote labour at next week ' s local election . play space should be accessible to all regardless of ability or disability , but that be not always the case . young people in my county of Norfolk be lead the charge to change that through the " MAP right to play " campaign . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the young people of Norfolk for push this issue , and will she make time for a debate on the importance of inclusive play ? absolutely . the right to play be critical and I be really pleased to hear that young people in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and across Norfolk , and be make it such a priority . Minsterley village have recently see its rural outreach post office service withdraw with just two day ' notice . the unplanned closure affect three village . no explanation or consultation be give to resident , the postmaster , the council or the three Members of Parliament , in clear breach of the principle of engagement set out by the Government . will the Leader of the House please raise with the relevant Business and Trade Minister my resident ' serious concern and ensure that the Post Office be fulfil its obligation to rural community such as mine ? post office closure be a really serious matter for this House . I implore my hon . friend , as the local MP , to stand up for post office service in her constituency , as she be do today , and campaign for they to remain open . I will absolutely ensure that she get a ministerial reply about what be happen . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; all good thing come to those who wait . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to my constituent Yvonne Yorke and Jackie Wood from Newcastle - under - Lyme , Sue Jackson from Stafford , and Linda Lock from Stoke - on - Trent South , all member of the Potteries branch of Alzheimer ' s Research UK ? they have raise more than £ 15 , 000 in many different way , include their " human fruit machine " . can the Leader of the House assure I and my constituent that condition such as Alzheimer ' s and dementia will be at the heart of our plan for early diagnosis ? absolutely . tackle Alzheimer ' s and dementia be at the heart of our early diagnosis strategy . we be determined to expand research and innovation into Alzheimer ' s across all area . yesterday and today , hundred of young people in my constituency celebrate their final day at school , with the Scottish Qualifications Authority exam period start tomorrow . leave school and move on be a big transition in life . will the Leader of the House join I in wish those young people all the good with their exam and what come next , and may we have a debate on the importance of celebrate such transition ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in wish all the young people in her constituency and across the House the very good of luck in all the exam they will be sit over the come week . for the final question , I call Chris Vince . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — and congratulation to you on that . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the player , staff and volunteer of a team often know as the " non - league Man City " , Harlow Town football club , on its promotion from the Thurlow Nunn first division ? and as I have time , will she also wish the club luck to do the double in two week ' time in the league cup final ? my hon . friend may be last , but certainly not least . I certainly join he in congratulate Harlow Town football club — maybe they have a Haaland as well , if they be bit like Man City — on its promotion and wish it the very good of luck in the league cup final in two week ' time . Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 3 - Credit Unions access Bank of England liquidity facility " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within twelve month of this Act come into force , prepare and lie before Parliament a report on the impact of this Act on credit union . ( 2 ) the report must include — ( a ) an assessment of the argument for grant credit union access to Bank of England liquidity facility , consider their similarity to small building society ; ( b ) an analysis of the competitive disadvantage face by credit union compare to start - up bank , particularly concern access to liquidity and resolution mechanism ; ( c ) recommendation for any legislative or regulatory change to support the stability and competitiveness of credit union . " — ( Mark Garnier . ) this new clause require the Chancellor of the Exchequer to prepare a report on the impact of the Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Act on credit union . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 1 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the Bank of England must not require the scheme manager to make a recapitalisation payment if it have direct the financial institution to maintain an end - state Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and eligible Liabilities ( MREL ) exceed minimum capital requirement . " this amendment seek to prohibit the use of fscs fund to recapitalise large financial institution , define as those which have reach end - state MREL . amendment 3 , page 1 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) no application to the scheme manager for recapitalisation payment may be consider by the Bank of England for a financial institution which have be direct to maintain an end - state Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and eligible Liabilities ( MREL ) exceed minimum capital requirement , unless permission have be give , through regulation , by the Chancellor of the Exchequer . ( 3b ) Regulations make by the Chancellor of the Exchequer , subject to subsection ( 4 ) , shall be make through Statutory Instrument under the negative procedure . " this amendment would ensure financial institution that maintain an end - state Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and eligible Liabilities exceed minimum capital requirement be exclude from the provision of the Bill , unless permission have be give through regulation . amendment 4 , page 2 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) as a further objective to the special resolution objective in section 4 of the Banking Act 2009 , when discharge its function in respect of the exercise of recapitalisation payment under this section , the Bank of England must observe the competitiveness and growth objective . ( 5b ) the competitiveness and growth objective be facilitate , subject to align with relevant international standard — ( a ) the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom , and ( b ) its growth in the medium to long term . " this amendment would place a further objective on the Bank of England to consider the competitiveness and growth of the market before direct the recapitalisation of fail small bank through a levy on the banking sector . amendment 2 , in clause 5 , page 4 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 2b ) the code must include guidance to the Bank of England on the exercise of its function in relation to build society to ensure that , in circumstance where the use of a recapitalisation power may result in demutualisation , due consideration be give to the impact of such demutualisation on member and on the mutual sector . ( 2C ) in prepare the guidance require under subsection ( 2B ) , the Treasury shall consider the feasibility of select a purchaser from the mutual sector as a means of avoid demutualisation , provide such a purchaser meet the resolution objective . " this amendment seek to ensure that , where possible , the selection of a purchaser from the mutual sector be consider to avoid demutualisation , provide this align with the Bank ' s resolution objective . before speak to new clause 3 specifically , let I reiterate that the opposition welcome the Government ' s decision to carry over the legislation from the previous Parliament , and that the principle underpin the Bill continue to enjoy strong cross - party support . we all want and need confidence in our banking sector , yet the failure of Silicon Valley Bank UK expose a gap in our resolution framework for small bank . unlike large institution , they do not hold the bail and bond mechanism know as MREL — the minimum requirement for own fund and eligible liability — reserve to facilitate recapitalisation in the event of a crisis . by provide the Bank of England with new tool to manage small bank failure , the Bill remain both prudent and necessary to protect financial stability and public fund . move on to the amendment we have table on Report , I want to make it clear that our approach be constructive and focus on strengthen the Bill , not obstruct its progress . as the Bill have make progress through both Houses , our intention have be to address a series of small but none the less significant issue that we believe require further attention . I appreciate that this might be a conversation we can continue in today ' s debate , or beyond it , and I would certainly welcome conversation with the Minister , who have be incredibly open to direct conversation in her usual pragmatic style , to far discuss these matter . we have three measure select for discussion today . I will speak first to new clause 3 , which address a critical gap in the Bill ' s scope : the protection of credit union . these community - focus institution have see significant growth in recent year , drive in part by the eradication of predatory payday lender , and they continue to provide a vital role in deliver affordable finance to those underserve by traditional bank . membership of credit union rise from 1 . 89 million in 2019 to 2 . 14 million in 2024 — an increase of more than 260 , 000 . however , while their importance have grow , their inclusion in our resolution framework have not keep pace . the Financial Services Compensation Scheme have pay £ 10 . 1 million in compensation to credit union depositor over the past three financial year , primarily due to small - scale failure , underscore their potential vulnerability and the need for a tailor approach as the sector expand . the growth of credit union be a success story , but it demand proportional safeguard . the Bill , however , exclude credit union from its recapitalisation mechanism . while their small size and unique nature may differentiate they from bank , question remain . how do the current resolution regime account for credit union failure as the sector scale up ? be there scope to develop a mechanism that protect member without impose undue burden on these community institution ? new clause 3 seek clarity on this matter , require the Minister to produce a report outline how the resolution framework can be adapt to protect credit union , ensure that their growth do not outstrip their regulatory safeguard . the vast amount of legislation for credit union be write back in the 1970 . the previous Government make significant reform for credit union through amendment to the Financial Services and Markets Act , and I welcome the common bond reform consultation , which close last month . I know that the Government be give the sector serious consideration , and I be sure the Minister will agree that this be not about apply bank - style rule to mutual , but about recognise their unique role and risk . credit union be more than financial institution ; they be engine of financial inclusion . they often serve small , working - class community , whom I know the Government want to support specifically . as the sector evolve , so too must our approach . we must ensure that our regulatory framework grow . I hope the Government will support this amendment , which simply seek to look more clearly at the option available when a crisis happen . amendment 2 seek to address a concern that have be raise with I by the mutual and build society sector . these institution be not relic of the past , but vital component of our financial ecosystem . although the first know building society be set up in 1775 by ordinary work people help themselves to build their financial resilience and get a home of their own , they remain current today . building society today hold more than £ 360 billion in asset and provide mortgage for more than 3 million people in the UK . they represent a significant proportion of the housing market and be a trusted source of saving for million more . they provide a clear and important diversification in our financial market , offer a clear alternative to shareholder bank . the Labour party stand on a clear manifesto commitment to double the size of the co - operative and mutual sector , which the opposition agree be a very good policy . today present a good opportunity for Labour Members to demonstrate that commitment to the sector by enshrine in the Bill a requirement that the Bank of England consider the risk of demutualisation when use the mechanism enshrine therein . there be a genuine fear in the building society sector that , without proper safeguard , the recapitalisation mechanism offer by the Bill could inadvertently become a back door for demutualisation . when a mutual institution face resolution , the selection of a purchaser from the plc sector risk permanently dismantle its mutual status , undermine the very ethos that make these institution unique . our amendment would provide a proportionate solution , require the Bank of England to consider the impact of demutualisation on member and the sector as a whole , while also explore the feasibility of select a mutual sector purchaser , if one exist and meet the resolution objective . this be not about privilege mutual at the expense of financial stability ; it be about ensure that the Bank ' s resolution tool do not inadvertently homogenise our financial landscape . Silicon Valley Bank demonstrate the need for agile resolution framework , but it also highlight the importance of preserve institutional diversity . mutual and building society often serve community and demographic that large bank frequently overlook . their potential loss would leave gap in financial inclusion and weaken the resilience of the sector . importantly , without the million of mortgage provide by the building society sector , particularly for first - time homeowner , Labour ' s house building plan would be simply impossible . I hope the Minister appreciate that our amendment strike a careful balance between safeguard financial stability and honour our commitment to a pluralistic banking system — one where mutual continue to thrive as a cornerstone of community - focus finance . I remind Labour Members that it will be much hard to double the size of the mutual sector if , in the event of a failure , recapitalisation default towards the banking sector . I hope the Government will therefore demonstrate their manifesto commitment to the mutual and co - operative sector by vote today for new clause 3 and amendment 2 . there remain genuine concern — share across this House and reflect in the debate in the other place — over the risk of the recapitalisation mechanism be apply too broadly and potentially capture large bank that already hold substantial loss - absorb resource , such as MREL . we continue to believe that the mechanism should be limit in scope and target at small bank that do not have the same capacity to manage their own failure . amendment 1 would limit the use of the mechanism to what it be always intend to be : a mechanism for small bank outside the MREL regime . I appreciate that new clause 1 and 2 have already be rule out of scope , but it may be worth note a couple of point on these measure . I wish to place on the record today that the opposition believe the time have come for a review of how we set the threshold for MREL , as well as the protection ceiling for depositor under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme . the current static nature of MREL threshold disproportionately affect small and mid - sized bank , particularly challenger bank . by index MREL threshold to inflation , we can ensure that the regulatory framework remain robust over time without stifle competition . these institution often operate on tight margin and face significant barrier in meet rigid capital requirement , hinder their ability to scale and compete effectively with large incumbent . while we appreciate that the Bank of England ' s consultation on MREL close early this year , we hope that the Government will consider these point . Threshold limit should not stay static with time . likewise , we welcome the Government ' s recognition of the need to review the Financial Services Compensation Scheme deposit limit . the recent announcement of the increase of the deposit protection scheme from £ 85 , 000 to £ 110 , 000 , although very welcome , be certainly overdue . it be worth note that if the limit have keep pace with inflation , it would be nearly two third high , at around £ 140 , 000 , accord to the Federation of Small Businesses . it be worth note that only 4 . 6 % of Silicon Valley Bank ' s UK deposit be insure by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme — Order . may I just remind the hon . Gentleman that we be discuss what be in scope , rather than what be not in scope and have not be select ? my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . these be point that we feel be worth note , but I take your comment . I will turn to amendment 3 , table by the Liberal Democrats . although we share the intent behind the amendment , which mirror the Conservatives ' amendment on MREL limit for bank , there be a critical difference in its approach that give we pause . like we , the Liberal Democrats recognise that end - state MREL bank should not be the primary target of this legislation . however , their amendment introduce a requirement for a statutory instrument under the negative procedure that we believe would create more problem than it solve . our concern lie in the potential impracticality of this approach . banking crisis can unfold rapidly , as we see with Silicon Valley Bank UK , where decision be make in a matter of hour , not day . a statutory instrument subject to the negative procedure become law the moment the Minister sign it , which be a good thing , and it remain in law unless either House reject it within 40 sitting day . that create a window of uncertainty . if member be to pray against the statutory instrument , particularly in a hung Parliament , it could trigger market instability , which be precisely what this Bill seek to avoid , so although we agree with the principle of limit the Bill ' s scope , we worry that the mechanism could tie the hand of a future Chancellor , hinder their ability to respond swiftly and decisively in a crisis . for those reason , we can not support the Liberal Democrat amendment . finally , I turn to the liberal Democrat ' s growth amendment , amendment 4 . here we find ourselves in a familiar and supportive position . this amendment , which seek to place a further objective on the Bank of England to consider the competitiveness and growth of the market before direct the recapitalisation of a fail small bank through a levy on the banking sector , echo concern raise in the House of Lords . we be happy to support the proposal there , and in Committee . the Government frequently repeat the point that their focus be on economic growth . that be a goal that all of we in this House share . the decision to place a levy on the banking sector to cover the cost of a competitor ' s failure must be carefully weigh against the broad growth objective . this be an economic climate in which taxis and borrowing be up , and business confidence , job and growth be down , but the Government have an opportunity to demonstrate their commitment to economic growth through this legislation — and we , of course , hope that they will . in conclusion , we support the overall aim of the Bill . it will strengthen our banking system and our banking resolution framework . as I say , the Bill be originally draft by the previous Government and retain cross - party support . we have highlight several key area that require further consideration , and I hope the Minister will consider they . from ensure that the mechanism be not extend to MREL bank to protect mutual society and credit union and safeguard the Financial Services Compensation Scheme against inflation , our amendment aim to improve the Bill ' s effectiveness and fairness , which be entirely in line with the promise make by the Labour party before the general election . I very much look forward to Labour support its own manifesto promise . I rise to speak in opposition to amendment 1 , 3 and 4 . under the previous Government , the country be subject to year of economic chaos . this Government have make restore stability a cornerstone of our strategy to boost long - term growth . ensure macroprudential stability , underpin by an effective recovery and resolution regime , be a key part of that . change undertake in the UK and globally through the Basel III reform have make our large bank safe and more resilient , and we should welcome that . the reform have improve solvency and reduce risk for the taxpayer . however , the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank in 2023 have demonstrate the need for new tool to help minimise the risk to consumer , taxpayer and broad financial stability pose by small bank failure . we need an approach that go beyond the bank insolvency procedure , and that be why the proposal in the Bill enjoy so much support across our financial service sector , as I know from my role as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on financial market and service . but in design this new approach , we must make sure that the proposal reflect the lesson of experience . in all candour , I be concerned that the amendment do not do that , and will impede the functioning of the new regime , render it less effective at moment of crisis . I be an adviser in the Treasury to Alistair Darling during the global financial crisis , when we have to resolve and recapitalise a number of major bank . the action that the Labour Government take then — often in the face of resistance from Conservative Members — help to save our financial sector from catastrophe and stabilise not just the UK , but the global economy . there be many lesson to be learn from that period , but in relation to the Bill , one stand out . when we have to act to save our banking sector , we learn that successful resolution rely , among other thing , on two key factor : speed and flexibility . it be the combination of those factor that be so important in 2008 , and since then , I would argue , they have only become more important . in 2008 , we watch bank ' liquidity and solvency deteriorate by the day , but now , as the collapse of Signature Bank in the US in 2023 show , the combination of banking app and social medium mean that a full - scale banking run can develop in hour or even minute . if we be to resolve bank successfully , regulator must be able to move as quickly . speed have become more important than ever . so , too , have flexibility . as we see increase financial innovation and diversification among bank , with new challenger , new form of institution and new type of market and asset emerge , allow regulator sufficient flexibility have become more essential , not less . the value of flexibility be demonstrate in the case of Silicon Valley Bank ' s UK subsidiary . the creative use of power to resolve that bank through a sale , rather than put it into the bank insolvency procedure , protect consumer , minimise market turbulence and shield the public purse . contrast that with the US regulator ’ approach to the parent company , SVB . there , rigidity and a mechanistic failure to apply major bank rule lead to failure of regulatory oversight that contribute — as US regulator have acknowledge — to the bank ' s failure . I raise this matter because I fear that amendment 1 , 3 and 4 will militate against speed and flexibility , and will reduce the effectiveness of the Bill , especially in acute crisis situation . let I start with propose amendment 4 . this would require the Bank of England to consider competitiveness and the growth impact on the market before direct resolution through the FSCS . however well - intentione the amendment be , it could have a catastrophic effect . at a time of crisis — policymaker have sometimes just hour to act — it would place a duty on they to make a market assessment , which , by the way , could presumably be challenge . this be simply impractical and could fatally slow down action to restore financial stability . as someone who have sit in the room during a bail - out process , I have to tell the proposer of the amendment that spend time on this kind of exercise during a disorderly bank failure be simply a luxury that we do not have . I be also concerned that such a requirement would have a chilling effect , stay regulator ’ hand when they have to act quickly . this could not only increase the risk of disorderly collapse , but raise the cost to the FSCS of a recapitalisation if it do proceed . experience tell we that the long we put off a resolution , the more expensive it become . this be a recipe for high risk and high cost . moreover , leave aside the practical difficulty , the underlying logic be flawed . first , in seek to analyse the market before decide on whether to resolve an institution or wind it up , we be put the cart before the horse . surely a much well course of action be to prevent the potentially disorderly collapse of the institution , and then to work out its long - term future and the role , if any , it should play in the market . secondly , the amendment fail to take into account other objective that the Prudential Regulation Authority should properly consider in decide whether to act , include the protection of retail saver , the prevention of contagion and the safeguarding of macroprudential stability . as draft , the amendment , however well - intentione , could distort PRA decision making . its intention may be good , but its impact might not be . the same be unfortunately true of amendment 1 and 3 . both seek to circumscribe the use of the FSCS via statute , to prevent it be use to bail out large institution . the amendment would rob regulator of the flexibility to use the instrument in unusual or unforeseen circumstance , in the name of solve a problem that do not exist . the power provide by the Bill be already aim squarely at small bank , and there be various safeguard in the Bill to prevent the use of those power for large bank in most scenario . for example , the Bill state that the FSCS - fund resolution may be use only for institution that be place in a bridge bank or transfer to a new institution , and this would not be applicable for large bank in most scenario , as they be expect to be resolve through an MREL bail - in . the Bill also provide for de facto Treasury sign off , require the Chancellor to report to Parliament on the use of the power and mandate the bank to inform the Chairs of the relevant parliamentary Committees whenever an fscs - fund resolution be undertake . as such , it be already well - policed and circumscribe . there be little danger of this approach be regularly or routinely use with large bank . add a statutory prohibition on use this approach with firm meet their minimum mrel threshold would add little , but it would create risk . my experience in the Treasury during the global financial crisis , and in my work across financial service since then , be that we can not say that the highly improbable will never happen , and we can not always predict what form the next crisis will take , or what will trigger it . conservative Members should surely understand this lesson well than most . after all , it be Liz Truss ' s disastrous mini - Budget that spark market chaos through a product — liability - drive investment — that most people have never even hear of , and be think to be very stable and low risk . give this , it would be exceptionally unwise to statutorily bar the Bank from be able to use all the tool at its disposal in exceptional circumstance . there be eventuality that , however unlikely , be possible , such as a well - capitalise bank suffer a very rapid deterioration of its position due to a mass redress event . we must allow the Bank flexibility to access the tool that the Bill provide in exceptional circumstance , in order to ensure stability and protect the taxpayer . we must not bind its hand in a crisis . the power of the Government ' s proposal lie in their ability to be deploy rapidly and with flexibility . that be what will give they their traction and help safeguard our financial stability . it be critical that we preserve those facet of the Bill . for that reason , I urge the House to join I in reject the amendment . the Liberal Democrats be supportive of the Bill , because the last thing taxpayer need to worry about be the consequence of an under - regulate banking sector . I have bring amendment 3 back from Committee , because the size of bank eligible for the new mechanism have be a key debate through the Bill ' s passage . the Minister have regularly set out that the Bill ' s state aim be to enhance the resolution regime , so that we can respond to the failure of small bank . however , the Bill do not restrict the regime to small or medium - sized bank . if apply to large bank , it would create high cost for bank and customer . the cost would persist for many year , add a significant long - term burden on the banking sector and consumer . amendment 3 would ensure that the Bill do not apply to bank that have reach the end - state minimum requirement for own fund and eligible liability — put more simply , the large UK bank . that would mean that only small and medium - sized bank could be support by the mechanism . that would protect consumer and the banking sector from unnecessary financial burden . amendment 4 have also be bring back from Committee . it would place a further objective on the Bank of England to consider the competitiveness and growth of the market before direct the recapitalisation of a fail small bank through a levy on the banking sector . we believe that further consideration of the effect on the competitiveness and growth of the market be important before direct the recapitalisation of fail small bank . to conclude , I would be grateful if the Minister could expand on the remark make in Committee and explain how precisely the amendment would complicate the process of manage a bank failure . it be always a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship , Mrs Cummins . I thank the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) and for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) for their amendment and their constructive engagement throughout the Bill ' s passage . the Bill will ensure that the Bank of England remain equip with the necessary tool to effectively manage bank failure in a way that minimise risk to the taxpayer and to UK financial stability , protect the taxpayer . while there may be some disagreement on the fine detail of the Bill , what we have hear today , and on Second Reading and in Committee , demonstrate that there be cross - party support for the principle and overall objective of the Bill . I thank the hon . member for Wyre Forest and the hon . member for Wokingham for support those . the amendment cover a broad range of issue , and I will explain the Government ' s position on they in turn , but first I thank my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) for set out his experience of the banking crisis and stress that the mechanism we be seek to provide through the Bill must allow the Bank of England , in close consultation with the Treasury and other financial service regulator , to act with speed and flexibility at time of crisis . there be hour , not day , in which to make decision during crisis , and at the forefront of our mind when discuss the Bill should be that they often happen over the weekend , as happen under the previous Government with Silicon Valley Bank . I will turn to that example shortly , but I want to thank my hon . friend the Member for Hendon for set out his concern about the amendment that would essentially stymie the effectiveness of the Bill . I note that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Wyre Forest , raise a number of issue on new clause 3 , on the Bill ' s impact on credit union . some be not strictly relevant to the Bill , but I will come on to they . as he note , the Government absolutely support credit union . they play a vital role in provide save product and affordable credit in local community across the country . however , they be not in scope of the resolution regime that we be discuss , and therefore not in scope of the new recapitalisation payment mechanism introduce by the Bill . that be a benefit to the credit union sector . indeed , it ask the Government to ensure that it be not include in the payment mechanism . credit union will therefore not be liable to pay towards the cost of a failure where the mechanism be use . I will set out the detail of the resolution regime and remind the shadow Minister and other why credit union be not involve in this case . under the resolution regime , the Bank of England have a set of power it can use to manage the failure of banking institution in order to protect financial stability and public fund . in order for the Bank of England to use these power , certain condition must be meet , include that resolution action be necessary and in the public interest . it be unlikely that these condition would be meet in the case of credit union failure , give their size and the reduced likelihood of contagion if they fail . it be therefore appropriate and proportionate that these firm be out of scope of the resolution regime and place into insolvency when they fail instead . the Government do not therefore believe that it be necessary for a report to be produce on the impact of the Bill on credit union . nevertheless , I appreciate the point the shadow Minister raise about access to liquidity facility . credit union be not currently eligible to access the Bank of England ' s liquidity facility , but the Bank do continually assess the type of firm that be eligible . I would gently say to he that with eligibility to these liquidity facility come additional responsibility on behalf of the firm that benefit from they . that be worth bear in mind . I reiterate the Government ' s clear , strong support for the credit union sector . we continue to engage regularly with the sector to understand the barrier it face to be able to grow and compete . I support wholeheartedly what the Minister have say about credit union , because credit union have a big role to play in Northern Ireland , as they do in other part of the United Kingdom . my concern when it come to crisis in bank be that credit union belong to their member , but bank have a different hierarchy — they have chief executive and director to pay . I believe it be unfair for banker to retain their bonus while the pensioner who have save his penny all his life suffer . no matter what the crisis be , the executive still get their dividend and bonus . I have a simple question : within this legislation and the rule we have here , can we be assure that the banker — the one at the top who may be responsible for the bank , or certainly act responsible for they — will find that their bonus be not deliver to they ? the hon . Gentleman draw I on something that be not pertinent to the amendment , but I understand why he have ask the question . when a bank fail , there be a hierarchy of creditor . I can write to he with that hierarchy , as I do not have it in my head at the moment . the hierarchy ensure that if , for example , the bank be bail in , those who have already invest in the bank become stakeholder , although it depend on the resolution scenario and where they be in that process . the people who have deposit in the bank — in more simple language , people who have bank account — be protect up to £ 85 , 000 . soon that will increase in the way that the shadow Minister suggest . amendment 1 and 3 in the name of shadow Minister , the hon . member for Wyre Forest , and the hon . member for Wokingham respectively both relate to the scope of the Bill , which have be discuss at length during the Bill ' s passage through this House and in the other place . the Government ' s position remain that the mechanism in the Bill be not intend to support the resolution of the large bank . the hon . member for Wyre Forest set that out in his speech , as do the hon . member for Wokingham . the large bank will continue to be require to hold mrel to self - insure against their own failure . for bank that be require to hold MREL , the Bank of England should in the first instance use those resource to recapitalise such a firm in resolution rather than resort to the new mechanism in the Bill . it be right that shareholder and investor in the firm should bear loss before anyone else , which go to the point make by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I return to the primary purpose of the Bill , which be to protect the taxpayer . bank failure be by their nature highly unpredictable , as my hon . friend the Member for Hendon say . in the unlikely circumstance where a top - up be need to resolve a bank once all its MREL resource have be use , hon . member must consider whether they want those cost to be bear by the taxpayer . it be the Government ' s belief that the taxpayer should not be on the hook for those cost . I make the point in Committee , and do so again today , that safeguard be in place to prevent inappropriate use of the mechanism . the Treasury , for example , be involve in the exercise of any resolution power through be consult about whether condition for resolution have be meet . it would also need to approve any resolution action with implication for public fund . if the Bank of England request a large sum from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme that the scheme could not provide through its own resource , additional amount would need to be borrow from the Treasury and would therefore require the Treasury ' s approval . therefore , in practice , Treasury consent would be require if the Bank of England have request a large sum . the shadow Minister attempt to draw I into many different subject relate to MREL . you rightly remind he , Madam Deputy Speaker , of the scope of the Bill and the amendment under discussion . I will always be happy to have those discussion with he — as he know , the Bank of England recently consult on the threshold — and I note what he say before he be call to order . he also try to draw I into question about the Financial Services Compensation Scheme , which be also for a different day ; as he say , there will soon be increase . I appreciate that the Bill ' s scope be limited , and the Minister be make an excellent case for the Government . I realise that bank collapse be unusual and that the Government take a range of step to try to protect the interest of consumer , but could she write to reassure I on the related point of bank branch there be a bank collapse ? perhaps my hon . friend and I could have a discussion outside the Chamber so that I can well understand his question . the mechanism in the Bill be about what happen when the resolution regime be trigger . four different condition have to be meet for that to happen . the Bill seek to continue the work that the opposition start to take forward when they be in government before the election about what we do in case like that of Silicon Valley Bank . in that case , there be not any recourse to public fund , but this be about how we protect the taxpayer in a scenario where there be . perhaps we can have a discussion about bank branch closure , which be obviously of great concern to member across the House . I appreciate that amendment 3 , table by the hon . member for Wokingham , aim to introduce an additional safeguard by permit the Bank of England to use its new power on the large bank only if the Treasury permit that through regulation . he talk about that in his speech . however , there may be risk associate with that approach , particularly if the Bank of England need to take a decision at pace in a crisis . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for Hendon be in the Treasury when many such situation arise . [ interruption . ] well , let we not rake over the history . we discuss some of these issue in Committee . as the shadow Minister suggest , we be try to avoid a window of uncertainty during which a statutory instrument would be lay . the Bank of England , work in close partnership and consultation with the Treasury and the other financial service regulator , need to be able to act swiftly and decisively — often over the weekend . I ask hon . member , and the hon . member for Wokingham in particular , to cast our mind back to the weekend when Silicon Valley Bank UK be fail . the Bill derive from the lesson learn from that event . what we see from that incident be how quickly the authority — the Bank of England in consultation with the Treasury , the PRA and the FCA — must move to find a solution before market open and resolve a fail firm in a way that protect financial stability , depositor and the taxpayer . that have to be at the forefront of our mind when we be think about the amendment . amendment 3 could add a further stage to that process , whereby the Treasury must lay regulation to enable the Bank of England to act . that may well — it be most likely that it would — hamper those effort to implement a solution swiftly to achieve those objective . have Silicon Valley Bank UK be catch by such requirement , that certainly would have make achieve the solution by Monday morning , before the market open , much more challenging . again , the priority be to protect the depositor and to protect financial stability . overall , the Government firmly believe that it be well to leave flexibility for the Bank , note the safeguard in place that I have already mention . on the basis of those point , I hope that hon . member will be persuade to support the Government ' s position on this matter ; I know that it be an issue of some contention . amendment 4 , also in the name of the hon . member for Wokingham , be on whether the Bank of England should have a growth and competitiveness objective when exercise its new power — another topic that we have discuss previously during the Bill ' s passage . growth and competitiveness be fundamental priority for the Government , and as I state in Committee , a disorderly bank failure could pose a serious risk to the growth and competitiveness of the sector and to the UK economy . the Bill seek to mitigate that risk . bear that in mind , the Government do not believe that they should impose a requirement on the Bank of England to consider growth and competitiveness when it be take urgent crisis management action in relation to an individual distressed or fail firm . at such a time , the situation that it would have to manage would be challenge enough without an additional broad objective of that kind . the resolution objective set out in the Banking Act 2009 already provide a solid basis on which it must make its decision , include protect financial stability , protect cover depositor and protect the taxpayer . as my hon . friend the Member for Hendon remind we , the Bank of England , in close partnership with the Treasury and the other financial service regulator , need to act with speed and flexibility to maintain financial stability . those consideration be very different from those that the PRA and the FCA make in their policymake role . the Government strongly support the existence of their secondary objective on facilitate growth and competitiveness . I note and accept that there be a broad question about how the Bank of England can support growth and competitiveness , but this be a complex matter , and one that be well beyond the scope of the Bill . we will be resist the amendment for those reason . finally — [ interruption . ] I see that our debate have attract quite a lot of discussion around the edge ; if I could hear myself think , it would be nice . I turn briefly to amendment 2 , table by the shadow Minister . first , I reiterate that the Government have make clear their strong commitment to support the mutual sector , and I reassure he that we take our commitment in the manifesto to double the size of the mutual and co - operative sector very seriously . many hon . member on the Government Benches who serve as Labour and Co - operative mp have a great interest in this matter , as have be demonstrate . I also direct the shadow Minister — to be fair , he refer to a couple of they — to the package of measure that the Chancellor set out at Mansion House , which include the consultation on the potential to reform common bond for credit union in Great Britain . the Chancellor ask the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority to produce a report on the mutual landscape by the end of the year . she also welcome the establishment of an industry - lead mutual and co - operative business council , the first meeting of which I attend early this year . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for raise the issue in the amendment . the chief executive of the Building Societies Association have write to I about it , and we be engage with he and the broad sector on the issue relate to the Bill , as well as on many other issue that be relevant to financial service and the role that the sector play in provide vital service to people throughout the country and as an engine of growth for the wide economy . I understand that the sector ' s interest in this matter stem from a provision in clause 7 that give the Bank of England an explicit power to require the issuance of security by the firm in resolution where the new mechanism in the Bill be use . this provide a means for the Bank of England to give effect to a recapitalisation under the new mechanism establish by the Bill . its purpose be to provide additional operational certainty that , if the Bank of England need the fail firm to issue share as part of its resolution , do so will not be put at risk by the usual administrative process of share issuance . of course , mutual have a different ownership model , with no share , so the use of the power with respect to a mutual would require the firm to be demutualise . that bring I to amendment 2 , which would require further detail to be include in the code of practice in relation to demutualisation . specifically , it would require the Treasury to include guidance in the code in respect of the Bank of England ' s exercise of its resolution power in respect of a building society in circumstance where the use of the recapitalisation power may result in demutualisation . the guidance would require the Bank of England to give due consideration to the impact of such demutualisation on member of the building society in resolution and on the mutual sector , particularly when the Bank of England could select a buyer from the mutual sector to avoid demutualisation . the Bank of England be require to have regard to the code , so would be require to have regard to such new guidance when exercise its resolution power . in respond to the concern raise by the amendment , I note first that the Bank of England already have the power to require the demutualisation of a mutual firm when exercise its power , if that be necessary to execute a resolution effectively in the public interest . the Bill do not change that . there be also circumstance in which demutualisation would not be necessary , such as the transfer of a mutual firm ' s asset to another mutual acquirer . we see that back in 2009 , with the transfer of the Dunfermline building society ' s asset to Nationwide . indeed , if the Bank of England be seek to resolve a fail building society , its asset may well prove an attractive acquisition for another mutual , so a sale within the mutual sector may already be a likely outcome under the exist regime , whether in resolution or in recovery in the period prior to resolution . it be worth remember , however , that the issue we be consider relate to bank and building society once they have fail . in such circumstance , the alternative to demutualisation as part of a resolution may be insolvency , which may have far more adverse consequence for member of the mutual , as well as for the wide mutual and banking sector . will the Minister give way ? I be afraid I be be urge to wrap up . I remind member that the Bill be fundamentally about protect the taxpayer — we have Third reading — it ' s fine . we have not come to that yet ; my hon . friend can intervene on Third Reading . [ laughter . ] take what I be say into account , although the Government appreciate the point raise by the sector and by the shadow Minister , we do not believe it be necessary to hardwire in legislation a requirement to update the code of practice on this matter . I understand , however , that the mutual sector feel strongly about this issue , and my official and I will continue to engage with the sector on it . I commend to the House our position on the new clause and amendment , which be to resist they . with the leave of the House , I wish to address one or two of the point make in the debate . the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) be an incredibly valuable contributor to the debate because of his experience back in the day of the 2008 financial crisis . if I remember correctly , that be largely a result of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 , which almost compound the problem by have a tripartite regime that look after the banking sector at the time . if I remember rightly , the Chancellor of the Exchequer at the time find it so scary that his eyebrow nearly turn white . one of the surprising thing about that crisis be that just 10 year early we have see the asian banking crisis , which basically lay the groundwork for what subsequently happen in the west . perhaps we in the west be too arrogant to believe that it could happen to we , yet it sure do . in my role as a member of the Treasury Committee from 2010 to 2016 , and on the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards , I look at all these issue very extensively . it be incredibly important that we resolve the issue . as it have turn out , the Financial Services Act 2012 and the Financial Services ( Banking Reform ) Act 2013 have work well in respect of some of this resolution . on the point about ldis and the financial crisis as a result of the Budget , we deal with the problem pretty swiftly and pretty brutally . when one of our leader get it wrong , we get rid of they fairly quickly . I suggest to the Labour party that if Government Front bencher get thing wrong , it be worth cauterise the problem and move on . on credit union and mutual , we absolutely recognise the point about the mutual sector . we be not ask for demutualisation to be rule out ; we be ask for the prospect of avoid demutualisation to be part of that very swift process . that be why we will press amendment 2 to a Division . I meet the credit union yesterday , and they be keen that the principle of new clause 3 be vote on , so we will press that as well . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Alistair Carmichael Ellie chown Lewis cock Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Steve Darling Mims Davies Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke will Forster Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Olly Glover Tom Gordon Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ben Lake John Lamont Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Kit Malthouse Llinos Medi Calum Miller Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey David Mundell Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Martin Vickers Matt Vickers James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Gregory Stafford Ashley Fox Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Mary Foy Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Tom Hayes Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Andy McDonald Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Luke Murphy Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Andrew Slaughter David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Elaine Stewart Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Chris Webb Catherine West Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Steve Yemm Kate Dearden Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 88 , Noes 212 . question accordingly negative . clause 5 - Code of practice Amendment propose : 2 , page 4 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 2b ) the code must include guidance to the Bank of England on the exercise of its function in relation to build society to ensure that , in circumstance where the use of a recapitalisation power may result in demutualisation , due consideration be give to the impact of such demutualisation on member and on the mutual sector . ( 2C ) in prepare the guidance require under subsection ( 2B ) , the Treasury shall consider the feasibility of select a purchaser from the mutual sector as a means of avoid demutualisation , provide such a purchaser meet the resolution objective . " — ( Mark Garnier . ) this amendment seek to ensure that , where possible , the selection of a purchaser from the mutual sector be consider to avoid demutualisation , provide this align with the Bank ' s resolution objective . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Alistair Carmichael Ellie chown Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Harriet Cross Steve Darling Mims Davies Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke will Forster Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Olly Glover Tom Gordon Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Ben Lake John Lamont Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Llinos Medi Calum Miller Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Helen Morgan David Mundell Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Martin Vickers Matt Vickers James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Ashley Fox Gregory Stafford Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Tom Hayes Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Andy McDonald Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Luke Murphy Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Andrew Slaughter David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Elaine Stewart Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Chris Webb Catherine West Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Kate Dearden Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 89 , Noes 230 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . we can hopefully do Third read in a more relaxed fashion . as we have discuss through the Bill ' s passage , the Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill will strengthen the UK ' s bank resolution regime by provide the Bank of England with a more flexible toolkit for respond to the failure of banking institution . as volatility over recent week have show , global uncertainty can have a real impact on financial market across the world . that be why it be important that the UK remain equip with an effective financial stability toolkit . the primary objective of the recapitalisation mechanism introduce by the Bill be to protect the taxpayer ; it will provide more comprehensive protection for public fund when bank fail . I think both side of the House can agree that this be of vital importance to ensure that our constituent be not leave on the hook when a bank collapse . the Bill achieve that without place new up - front cost on the banking sector , and therefore strike the right balance between protect financial stability and support the Government ' s no . 1 priority of drive economic growth . I would like to thank all those in this House and the other place who have contribute to the scrutiny of the Bill . in particular , I would like to thank the Opposition for their constructive engagement . as I say on Report , there be broad agreement on the primary objective and principle of the Bill , but differ view have be express on the scope of the mechanism and certain fine detail . I reiterate the Government ' s position : it be important to learn the lesson from the case of Silicon Valley Bank UK , which demonstrate that the implication of a firm ' s failure can not always be anticipate , and thing move very quickly . it be important that the legislation avoid overly restrict the Bank of England ' s ability to use the mechanism in unpredictable and fast - move failure scenario , and can achieve its primary objective of protect the taxpayer . I hope that those in the other place will agree with the Government ' s position when the Bill return there for their consideration . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) and for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) , and other who be on the Committee . I thank the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , and the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) and for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , for their contribution on Second Reading . I thank the Minister with responsibility for pension , my hon . friend the Member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , who assist I on Second Reading , and my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for his input . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) for his speech on Report . I would like to extend my gratitude to my official in the Treasury for their hard work in develop this highly technical Bill , which could not easily be rush , and for support I throughout the Bill ' s passage . I be also grateful to the House staff , parliamentary counsel and all other official involve in the passage of the Bill . this Bill support the UK economy ' s resilience to the risk pose by bank failure . we all remember the damage cause by the financial crisis , and the Bill , alongside other measure that allow failure to be manage in an orderly way , uphold the economic and financial stability that will deliver on the Government ' s growth mission . I be pleased that the Bill have receive broad cross - party support in this House and the other place , and I look forward to its enactment . I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . may I first say a hearty congratulation to the Minister on bring through her first Bill in the new Government ? she be parachute into the job rather recently , but she have do a magnificent job , and it have be a pleasure to engage with she . we share the aim of work in the interest of the wide economy , and we have work together on the Bill . we may differ on a few tiny detail , but we agree on its overall objective . as I mention on Report , I spend some time on the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards look at how we can stop another banking crisis , and on the Treasury Committee do pre - legislative work on the Financial Services Act 2012 . this be an iterative and organic process . we will never be able to stop financial crisis happen , but work together , we can ensure that there be no more instance of contagion flooding through the system . this Bill be extraordinarily good in follow that iterative process , in order to make the banking system unsinkable , I hope — and I do not use that term lightly , as someone might have do in the film " titanic " ; this be genuinely very important . I pay credit to the former Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , and the former Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , and their official , who work tirelessly to ensure that Silicon Valley Bank UK be transfer to HSBC over that weekend , which undoubtedly avoid wide disruption to the financial system . we be delighted that the Bill be introduce in the previous Parliament , and we welcome the Government ' s decision to carry it over into this Parliament . I be about to say that our sword will cross in the come month and year , but I do not think they will ; I think we will almost certainly agree on thing . we will engage with the Minister and her official to ensure that we have a world - class financial system that be the envy of the world . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Flood Preparedness : Carlisle Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) I be pleased to have secure an Adjournment debate on a topic that be so important to my constituency of Carlisle . in the last two decade , Carlisle have suffer two devastating flood , which have leave local people fearful whenever there be a forecast of heavy rain . in the flood of January 2005 , which be the bad flood since 1822 , three local people — Margaret Threlkeld , Margaret Porter and Michael Scott — tragically lose their life . thousand be force from their home as 1 , 800 property be overcome by water from the three river that converge in the centre of Carlisle . power and telephone line be disrupt . road and rail network be closed . all the city ' s bus be damage . the civic centre , designate as the emergency control centre , along with the police station , the fire station , the main electricity substation , the telephone exchange and the sewage treatment work , be all severely flood . it be record rainfall that cause the flood of 2005 , but just 10 year later that record be shatter , and Carlisle be flood again . this time , 2 , 200 property be breach with floodwater . give that the flood be in 2005 and 2015 , I think the Minister will understand why many of my resident be concerned that 2025 , another year end in a " 5 " , might bring further devastation to our city . that fear be heighten , because the defence promise by the previous Government follow the 2015 flood be never complete . it be a fear I can personally relate to . in 1985 , my family ' s home in the Denton Holme area of Carlisle — one of the area still at risk because of those incomplete flood defence — be flood when the River Caldew burst its bank . I can personally testify to the terror and helplessness that people feel when their home be invade by water . we wade through what be once our living room , survey possession and furniture destroy beyond repair . it be a horrible , crush feeling , and even after the water subside , the smell of damp and sewage remain . return to any sort of normality can take month , even year . my parent have spend the good part of two decade create a home in Denton Holme that they love , and my mam — who , incidentally , will turn 91 on Saturday — still talk of it . after the flood , she say she could never shake the sense or smell of damp , and within 18 month we have move house . in response to the 2005 flood , the then Labour Government commission and complete new flood defence , and over the next five year , £ 38 million be spend on the design and construction of flood defence at the Eden , Petteril and Caldew river . these be design to protect Carlisle from a storm with a one in 200 chance of happen , and they do make a major difference . in 2012 and 2013 , the defence be estimate to have prevent in excess of £ 180 million - worth of flood damage to the city . but on 5 December 2015 , Storm Desmond hit Carlisle . it be a storm with a one in 333 chance of occur . the rainfall trigger the high level of flow ever record on the River Eden . in some location , flood level be approximately 600 mm high than those experience in 2005 . such be the extent of the flood that the crossbar post at Brunton Park , Carlisle United ' s famous stadium , be submerge under water . fortunately , no one lose their life in 2015 , and while the recently construct defence be effective at reduce damage and delay flooding in some location , it be clear that more need to be do . progress have be make in subsequent year , and I commend the Environment Agency for that . since the catastrophic flood of 2015 , some 1 , 650 home be well protect , thank to over 6 km of new or raise flood defence . there have also be improvement to two culvert and their associate inlet or outlet structure . the Carlisle phase 1 and 1a scheme , complete in 2021 , have increase protection for home and business around the Warwick Road and Botcherby area of Carlisle . the Carlisle phase 2 scheme , also complete in 2021 , raise the flood defence along the River Eden , provide further protection to the Hardwicke Circus and Castle Way area . the Rickerby and Low Crosby scheme have also reduce the flood risk to local community . it be particularly excellent that the latter take an award - win , innovative , low - carbon approach ; it remove historical embankment to increase the effectiveness of natural floodplain . my hon . friend be make an excellent and powerful speech about this awful problem that affect so many people , particularly in her part of England . can wide lesson be learn from the technique she be describe — for example , lesson about the use of natural material , and about change in land use , particularly in a range of river catchment ? in my area in the Thames valley , both the Thames and the Kennet have flood ; as a result of climate change , they pose much great risk than they do . many resident have concern about a range of issue , and I wonder if my hon . friend think there be a wide national lesson to be learn . I do think there be lesson to be learn , not least because Carlisle have be so badly affect by flooding and it be so devastating . lesson could be share from the scheme that have be introduce in the city , particularly in relation to maximise the use of the floodplain . in a short while , I will discuss more generally some of the natural flood defence work that have happen on the outskirt of the city . there have be a number of scheme to the north of Carlisle . in the town of Brampton , natural solution like tree planting and the creation of wetland have be use to mitigate the risk of flooding from the Brampton beck , all while provide wide environmental benefit to the community . a new natural flood management scheme be currently be deliver at Brampton Fell farm , offer further protection to the town . there have also be the return of the " wiggle river " at Howgill beck , which be straighten more than 200 year ago . thank to the work of RSPB Geltsdale warden Jen Selvidge , a 1 . 8 km stretch of the beck have be return to its natural wiggly state . during heavy period of rainfall the river can now spill out on to the natural surround floodplain meadow , help to reduce the chance of flood downstream towards Carlisle , as well as have the add bonus of create vital pool and damp patch for wade bird to feed on . I be delighted that early this month the restoration project win the prestigious UK river prize project - scale award for 2025 . natural flood management scheme like these have an important role to play , and I urge the Minister to look closely at how a redesign sustainable farming incentive can well encourage and compensate farmer who do the right thing by their local community for the loss of the income that they might otherwise have earn from the farmland that they have give over to natural flood management scheme . one of the group that particularly deserve praise in keep Carlisle ' s flood preparedness under the spotlight be the Carlisle Flood Action Group . since its founding in January 2016 in the wake of the December flooding , it have do an excellent job of campaign for the defence that our city need . indeed , it be one of many example that show Carlisle at its very good . our community be one that pull together , and nothing encapsulate that well than it take just 49 day from the 2015 flood to get the aforementioned Brunton Park back up and run and ready for match once again . some might say that , give our form this season , we could use a little bit of a delay to the end of it , but I will not dwell on that point . let I be clear : more need to be do . in January last year river level threaten to overwhelm the city again . last May , rainfall equivalent to a one - in - 300 - year storm lead to the flooding of 100 property in the village of Scotby , just outside Carlisle . our change climate only make these sort of storm more common . indeed , the Environment Agency believe that the impact of climate change in the River Eden catchment , which cover near the majority of my constituency , will be more severe than in the vast majority of river catchment in England . at the very top of the list of what must be do be the Caldew flood risk management scheme , which many people in my constituency will know as the long - promise Carlisle phase 3 scheme — the one that be not deliver by the last government . the scheme ' s objective be to reduce flood risk to over 1 , 700 property in the Denton Holme , Caldewgate and Willowholme area of the city . I be grateful to Carol Holt , the Environment Agency area director for Cumbria and Lancashire , for accompany I on a tour across the area in February this year , but despite assurance date back year , resident have become frustrated by a lack of communication from the EA since the project be first pause in 2021 due to viability concern . we be not the only community wait for defence or even try to get maintenance do to exist defence . after 14 year of conservative dither and delay , some 3 , 000 Environment Agency high - consequence asset be below the require condition . that be one of the reason that I be glad we now have a Labour Government , and an especially responsive Minister for Water and Flooding . I welcome the plan investment of a record £ 2 . 65 billion in the next two year to build and repair over 1 , 000 flood defence , well protect 52 , 000 property across the country . last month , over £ 1 million be pledge towards a number of scheme in north - west Cumbria , include road surface work at Etterby Terrace and Wigton Road in Carlisle , and a property flood resilience scheme at Warwick Bridge , just outside the city , which I have be push the EA to deliver since I enter this place and which be plan to be finish by winter 2025 . some £ 300 , 000 be secure for the long - moot Caldew scheme ; I have be tell that feasibility study be due by the end of the summer , and although I look forward to their conclusion , I be concerned that even if a path be identify , it may be five to 10 year until the scheme can be deliver . tackle the risk from the Caldew can not just be about create ever high and more expensive and impose flood defence . instead , we need a range of measure , both in Carlisle and outside it , to help slow and hold the water away from the city , buy precious time for the river level to ease . I understand that the Caldew scheme will be one of the large scheme that the Environment Agency have ever undertake , but it be vital to the life of over 100 , 000 resident in Carlisle and to the prosperity of a place that have be the centre of trading in north - west England since before roman time . I recognise that deliver the scheme will not be quick and I urge the Minister to ensure that a suite of measure be employ in the interim to mitigate the immediate threat from the River Caldew . those measure could include a plan to remove aggregate and vegetation build - up that slow the flow of the river through the city . I wish to address one other aspect of flood preparedness : emergency planning . I be glad that further expansion of the flood warning provision have take place in Carlisle , include two new flood warning area at Warwick Bridge and Parham beck , cover a combine 330 property . I be also grateful for the flooding text alert that I receive on a regular basis , but one issue that have be point out to I , particularly by the Carlisle Flood Action Group , be the need for more information to be make available to the public ahead of an incident , so that people can see where their near emergency shelter be plan to be in the event of a flood . I understand that such information be not currently available , so the first time the public hear of those location would be when a flood occur . my hon . friend make a very good point . in my own experience and that of local resident , alert sometimes happen in the middle of the night , so it be extremely worrying and difficult for resident to respond quickly . she be right that there need to be a proactive element , but do she also believe that there need to be well co - ordination between private landowner , local authority and the EA to tackle this issue ? particular concern about private landowner have be raise with I . will she comment on that point ? I be aware , certainly in the Denton Holme area , that a number of different landowner have responsibility for the maintenance of the river bank . as my hon . friend identify , that patchwork of responsibility give rise to a number of issue . it would be desirable for more information about flood alert to be available in advance , so that people could plan for such an eventuality , but I recognise that those plan need to be dynamic ; as I highlight , in 2005 people could not get to the emergency centre because it have be cut off by the flood water . I recognise that provide that information in advance will not be absolutely perfect , but it would be beneficial for it to be make available . if emergency location be know , resident would have a well understanding of where to move to in the event of an emergency and would begin to do so , as my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) indicate , when that all - important flood alert come through . I would be grateful if the Minister could consider that point in her response . in summary , I urge haste . I have already say that we be in another year end in a " 5 " , and that do present concern for my constituency . we pass the 20 - year anniversary of the tragic 2005 flood in January and we approach the 10 - year anniversary of the 2015 flood in December , so it be vital that we get on with deliver the scheme need to keep our great border city safe and secure for many year to come . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) for secure this debate . I wish a happy birthday to her mam , who I believe have her birthday at the weekend . I be really delighted to have the opportunity to hear about and discuss the step be take to prepare for flooding in Carlisle and across England . on a personal level , I have to say that my hon . friend ' s constituent make an excellent choice in make she their Member of Parliament , because she always lobby I so nicely . that be always nice , but it also make it very difficult for I ever to say no . I speak with the Environment Agency early , and its representative also tell I how engage my hon . friend have be on flood risk reduction in Carlisle and be very complimentary about her persistent and kind lobby . protect community , home , business and farmland be our priority , and that be more important than ever as climate change bring more extreme weather to the nation . I have meet my hon . friend twice in the last year formally , and many time informally , to speak about some of the challenge that her constituency face . I understand the awful experience of flooding , and I know full well that flooding of any kind be devastating for those affect . my hon . friend have speak in this House on the issue of flood 20 year after the terrible 2005 flood , which be consider the bad in Carlisle since 1822 and , as she say , tragically claim the life of three people . in 2015 , Carlisle see further devastation from Storm Desmond . I know that she raise that issue last December , ask the Prime Minister what assurance could be give on deliver flood defence that might prevent a repeat . only last year , Carlisle be badly affect again , so I understand my hon . friend ' s urgency . unlike the last Government , who leave our defence in a state of disrepair , I be pleased to share that the investment for this year between April ' 25 and March ' 26 include more than £ 1 million across nine scheme in my hon . friend ' s constituency alone . her constituency be receive £ 1 , 015 , 000 this financial year , of which £ 660 , 000 be allocate to the city of Carlisle itself . I know that she have express particular concern about the delay to the Caldew flood risk management scheme , which I be delighted to confirm have an investment of £ 300 , 000 this year for further development . I hope that reassure she that effort to reduce flood risk to more than 1 , 700 property in the Denton Holme , Caldewgate and Willowholme area of the city be firmly in motion . my hon . Friend mention the Caldew flood risk management scheme , which in ' 25 - 26 will receive an investment of £ 300 , 000 , in relation to feasibility study . in 2021 , Environment Agency consultant carry out a feasibility study on further flood risk management option for the city of Carlisle , the outcome of which be that that option be not viable . however , another feasibility study be live on other potential option for flood risk management scheme , include , as my hon . friend mention , work upstream of the city . the EA expect that study to conclude this summer . great progress have be make in Carlisle in recent year . part of the area have some of the high standard of river and flood protection anywhere in the country , with new flooding scheme design with a 0 . 5 % annual probability of flooding . my hon . friend highlight the work of Jen Selvidge , the RSPB Geltsdale reserve warden , in help to return 1 . 8 km of Howgill beck to its natural state of wiggliness , and the work of the Carlisle Flood Action Group to keep Carlisle ' s flood preparedness in the spotlight . local flood action group play such an important role across this country . lead by the community themselves , those group give a voice to local area and allow community to work in partnership with local authority and the Environment Agency . I pay tribute to all of they up and down the country . turn to the use of emergency shelter in a flooding event , it be of course local authority that be responsible for set up and manage rest centre during evacuation , provide temporary shelter and support for those who have be evacuate . typically , those location be not publish in advance , as the location in use will depend on availability , the location of the emergency , and the number of people who may need to use they . the concern be that publish in advance could risk people attend an inactive location , or one affect by the emergency itself — my hon . friend mention one of the emergency centre itself be flood , and therefore unable to be use . we will , however , work with the local authority to ensure that a list of potential shelter be publish , which can provide resident with notice of where their near shelter may be set up . during a flood emergency , local authority and the Environment Agency work closely with other emergency partner to co - ordinate messaging — include the possible use of emergency alert — to affect community and local flood group , to ensure that resident have timely and consistent guidance during an emergency . I speak to the Environment Agency this morning , which inform I that it would contact my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle to discuss the location of emergency shelter in Carlisle and how to make people aware of where they could be , while take into account that in an emergency , some of they might not be able to be use . we do not want people go to the wrong place , so there be a balance to be strike , but the Environment Agency be happy to talk to my hon . friend in more detail . Carlisle be one of the many area in England that will be receive investment this year . I be therefore proud to share that in deliver on the Government ' s plan for change , we be invest a record £ 2 . 65 billion over two year in the construction of new flood scheme and the repair and maintenance of exist one . with that funding , 1 , 000 flood scheme have be support or will continue to be support , help to protect 52 , 000 more home and business . maintenance of exist flood defence be also be prioritise , ensure that a further 14 , 500 property will have their expect level of protection maintain or restore . in total , 66 , 500 property will benefit from that funding , help to secure job , deliver growth and protect against economic damage . we recognise that many flood defence project have stall over time , due partly to an outdated formula for allocate money . we have therefore make available £ 140 million from the £ 2 . 65 billion investment programme , which have be prioritise for 29 project that be ready for delivery , ensure that nearby community be protect as soon as possible . the full list of scheme to receive funding in 2025 - 26 be announce on 31 March and can be find online , and we will of course continue to invest in new defence . because we have inherit flood asset that be in the poor condition on record follow year of under - investment , 3 , 000 of the Environment Agency ' s 38 , 000 high - consequence asset have be leave below the require condition . in a November 2023 report , the National Audit Office recognise that increase investment in operate and maintain exist flood defence be critical to reduce the frequency and impact of flooding . as such , we be take decisive action to fix the foundation , give community confidence that flood defence will protect they . to support that action , we be re - prioritise £ 108 million of investment in repair and restore critical asset : £ 36 million in 2024 - 25 to target repair towards asset damage in storm last winter and ongoing flood event ; and a furth £ 72 million this year to continue repair and ensure that asset be as resilient and reliable as possible , and that they operate as expect in flood event . in addition , the environmental land management scheme present a valuable opportunity to support flooding and coastal erosion risk management aim through direct funding of action , provide a revenue stream to support landowner work with EA capital scheme , and indirect action , which will lead to reduce watercourse maintenance requirement and increase the lifespan of our asset . I would like to reassure my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle that the EA actively monitor aggregate and vegetation throughout the year for critical location that be trigger point , and when those trigger level be meet , gravel and vegetation be remove when timing allow . if she have any concern about those level — if she believe they have already be meet — that can be another conversation to continue with the Environment Agency . protect community around the country from flooding be one of the Secretary of State ' s five core priority , which be why we set up the flood resilience taskforce to provide oversight of national and local flood resilience and preparedness . that taskforce bring together Ministers from DEFRA , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , the Cabinet Office and the Department for Transport — the fact that we have so many Ministers in the same room to discuss flood resilience demonstrate the priority give to that issue across Government . it mark a new approach to prepare for flooding by bring together representative from national , regional and local government , the devolve Administrations , the emergency service , charity and environmental interest group . I be pleased to chair the taskforce when it meet on 5 February to look at learn from flooding since last September and long - term funding and investment reform . the discussion from that meeting be now be take forward through collaborative action group of taskforce member , and we be look at flood warning , flood recovery and flood insurance . the next taskforce meeting will take place in May 2025 , where the action group will report back on their work to improve flood resilience and well protect and support vulnerable community , because flood warning be frequently mention as a concern after flood event . we be also provide vital funding to support great resilience for farmer and rural community . the Government announce last month an additional £ 16 million boost to the internal drainage board fund , which have be bolster to a total of £ 91 million from the previously allocate £ 75 million . it will enable investment in modernise and upgrade IDB asset and waterway to ensure they be fit for the future . More than 400 , 000 hectare of agricultural land and around 91 , 000 home and business across England be expect to benefit from the IDB fund . turn to the sustainable farming initiative , more than half of all farm land be now be manage in environmental land management scheme . that include more than 37 , 000 live SFI agreement undertake a range of action , include to strengthen natural flood defence . we announce on 11 March that the current SFI budget have be fully allocate , and we will continue to support farmer to transition to more sustainable farming model , include through the thousand of exist SFI agreement over the come year , and a reform sfi offer . now be the right time for a reset of SFI , support farmer , deliver for nature and target public fund fairly and effectively towards priority for food , farming and nature . the Government will work with the farming sector to prioritise funding for future year , so that we can target those who will benefit most before reopen to new applicant . there will be a new and improved SFI offer , with detail to follow in summer after the spending review . the improved SFI scheme will be another step in this Government ' s new deal for farmer to support growth and farm profitability . if my hon . friend would like , I can share detail highlight her interest in provide view to the official responsible . look ahead , I have set out plan to consult on a new strategic vision for flood investment . I be pleased to say that a consultation on reform to the funding formula will be launch shortly this spring . we will ensure that the challenge face business and rural and coastal community be adequately take into account when deliver flood protection . flood scheme proceed in 2026 , 2027 and beyond will continue to be subject to the annual regional flood and coastal committee consent process , with local elect representation , and to decision from the upcoming spending review . I appreciate the work that the Minister be do in this area . she be prove herself to be an excellent Minister who be willing to listen to those of we with concern about flooding . as part of the review , be it possible to investigate the role of lock and weir in river catchment and how they be maintain and operate when river be at a high level ? concern have be raise with I by local resident that some weir or lock — this be an issue within the community , which I have not yet be able to fully check out — may have be open at time of high flow , when perhaps it might have be well for the water to have be manage in a different way . be it possible to have further consultation on that ? I understand that in some catchment there be different way of lock and weir be manage , and it may be that there be no national standard . on the Thames , there be often lock - keeper who be pay employee , but with some tributary , it be not as organise as that , and it may be individual landowner who be responsible . in our area , the way that the Kennet — it be a large tributary , but still only a tributary — be manage be different from and less professionalise than the Thames , and concern have be express about that . I thank my hon . friend for his thoughtful contribution as always and for his interest in this area . the management of lock and weir probably do not come into the scope of the flooding formula review , but I have hear the point he be make , and I will talk to official about whether the management of lock be take into account with flood plan and how that be manage consistently around the country . I will write back to he on that , if that would be useful . the Government ' s record two - year investment in our flood defence will well protect community across the country from flood . it will also boost economic growth in local community by protect business , deliver new job and support a stable economy in the face of the increase risk of flooding as a result of climate change . through our plan for change , this Government will deliver a decade of national renewal and economic growth , and we be commit to ensure that community be well protect from flooding in the first place . we will continue to deliver and repair flood defence , improve drainage system and develop natural flood management scheme . as ever , the emergency service , the Environment Agency , local authority , voluntary organisation and Government Departments stand ready to support affected people in any future flooding event , and I pay tribute to they all . it be a personal priority and a privilege to be the Minister responsible for flooding , and I will continue work to ensure that this country be more resilient to flood . as the Member for Carlisle mention her mother ' s 91st birthday , it be only appropriate that I wish Freda Minns — what a beautiful name — a very happy birthday . question put and agree to . House adjourn .