Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Economic Growth what step she be take to help ensure the transport system support economic growth . what step she be take to help ensure the transport system support economic growth . economic growth be this Government ' s top priority , and a reliable , well - connect transport network be critical to drive prosperity . that mean deliver local priority in place such as Huddersfield and Hyndburn , include through West Yorkshire ' s £ 830 million city region sustainable transport settlement and the local transport grant for Lancashire combine county authority . the Government have rightly prioritise rail as a key factor in the future viability of our transport infrastructure . there exist in Hyndburn an outstanding opportunity to create a freight rail terminal that would fit with the Department for Transport ' s target for increase rail freight capacity by 75 % . the proposal also add value in increase east - west rail freight capacity , which must currently pass through Manchester . sadly , no progress be make on this under the last Government . do the Secretary of State agree that a north - west freight strategy should be a priority , and will she meet I to explore the potential of this as a priority project in the north - west ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of rail freight , and I be clear that with a reform railway , we must do more to shift freight from the road to rail . I be keen that Network Rail work collaboratively with industry to develop terminal where there be either current demand or the potential for future growth . if there be viable interest in develop this land , my official and Network Rail would be happy to engage with interested party . I welcome the funding commitment for transport in Huddersfield , include rail upgrade to the Penistone line and the trans - Pennine route , which be very much need . however , during a coffee morning with resident last week , the main issue discuss be the reliability of bus service and the need for integrated transport . can the Minister outline how she be support our West Yorkshire Mayor in ensure that transport - lead economic growth include bus service and be feel across all neighbourhood and community in Huddersfield ? I be not surprised to hear that bus be top of the agenda for my hon . friend ' s constituent . reliable , affordable bus service will be essential for so many of those she represent , and I be particularly delighted to see the successful launch this week of Mayor Tracy Brabin ' s Weaver bus network . the Government be invest £ 36 million in West Yorkshire ' s bus . that be in addition to the £ 830 million we be spend in the region to improve local transport infrastructure and the rail investment we be make as part of the trans - Pennine route upgrade . the Secretary of State know that High Speed 2 ' s central purpose be to deliver economic growth , but she know , too , that it be take far long and cost far more to deliver than anyone expect . give that project of the scale of HS2 require parliamentary approval , be it not important that Parliament have accurate estimate of how much the project will cost and how long it will take to deliver ? will she commission a properly independent and thorough review of why the budget for HS2 have increase so often and the timetable have expand so often ? I will be provide update to the House on the emerge cost position and opening window . as the right hon . and learn Gentleman will know , this Government have appoint a new chief executive of HS2 , Mark Wild , who be conduct an ongoing review . we have also reintroduce ministerial oversight , which be sorely lack under the conservative party ' s leadership . I recognise that this be an important issue , and we be do all we can to deliver the rest of this railway at the low reasonable cost to the taxpayer , so that people can enjoy excellent rail service in the future . the Transport Secretary recently refuse to commit to keep the £ 3 cap on bus fare outside London beyond the end of this year , leave many in rural area worry about how much more they will end up have to pay to get to work . resident across my constituency have already see vital route scrap or scale back , hold back economic growth . can the Transport Secretary explain what support will be make available to not only keep rural fare down but restore lose service ? the hon . Lady will know that this Government step in to prevent soar bus fare increase , give the last government ' s decision to only fund a bus fare cap until the end of last year . [ interruption . ] opposition member can chunter , but the truth of the matter be that it be fantasy money , and the money be not allocate to fund that bus fare cap . we be in an ongoing process , through the spending review . I appreciate the importance of affordable , reliable bus service , and we will do all we can to ensure that people can continue to enjoy the bus network that they need . I call the shadow Minister . Greater Anglia support economic growth in the east of England with modern , quiet , fast train , pay for by £ 2 billion of private sector investment . its service be the most punctual in the country , it be popular with its passenger , and it be run so efficiently that instead of cost the taxpayer , it pay money into the Treasury . it be currently train operator of the year . Greater Anglia know that nationalisation be come , and it have offer to extend its operation to allow the Government to focus on the bad perform operator first . why do the Government refuse ? be the Secretary of State focus on improve the life of passenger , or be it an ideological determination to put the union back in charge of the railway ? I really do not know how many time I have to say this to the hon . Gentleman . I meet he a couple of day ago , and I explain that our process for bring train operating company into public ownership be design to offer good value for money to the taxpayer . we will not be buy out fail private sector operator by break contract early . he be right to say that Greater Anglia provide an excellent service , and I be confident we will build on that when it come into public ownership in October . perhaps the Secretary of State do not understand the nature of the offer from Greater Anglia . it be not expect to be buy out ; it be offer to continue its current arrangement for a couple of year . in a previous answer , the Secretary of State say to I that the benefit of rail nationalisation will be the £ 150 million of efficiency saving . let ' s see how that be go . her first nationalisation will be South Western Railway in two week ' time . that new service will need train , yet the Telegraph have reveal that inept contract negotiation by her Department , where there be no effective competition , mean that the cost of re - lease the same train be increase by £ 250 million over five year . be those the efficiency saving she have in mind ? the up to £ 150 million of saving that the taxpayer can enjoy as a result of train operating company come back into public ownership be the save management fee that we be currently pay to private sector operator , and efficiency will be deliver on top of that . on the substantive issue that the hon . Gentleman raise about South Western Railway , the cost of renew roll stock lease have be fully and properly budget for , with successful commercial negotiation recently conclude . the franchising process under his Government see some " buy now , pay later " deal do on roll stock , where cost be always expect to increase . I think that approach be deeply dubious , but that be the short - termist , ill - thought - through approach of his government , and we be now have to clear up that mess . rail sector : skill what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure that worker have necessary skill for the rail sector . a skilled workforce be key to deliver the railway that passenger need , and I be work closely with colleague across Government to ensure that we train up the right people in the right way for the job of the future . as my hon . friend will know from our visit to Derby last week , we be also take action to ensure that we attract young talent into the industry , by lower the age at which someone can become a train driver to 18 . Derby be the centre of the large rail cluster in Europe — an east midland cluster employ 45 , 000 people . there be an incredible range of role in the sector , from engineer to drive , digital to welding , advanced manufacturing to customer service , and many more . however , with a third of worker in the rail sector age 50 or over , it face a significant shortage of rail skill in the future . what role can great British Railways , with its headquarters in Derby , play in ensure that we have the skill we need for the future ? develop an industry workforce plan will be a key priority for great British Railways , and I be confident that we will be make the most of the expertise that already exist in place such as Derby . the fact that Derby will soon become the new national headquarters of GBR will mean more high - skilled job for a city that be already brim with rail industry talent . I look forward to work with my hon . friend and local leader on maximise the opportunity that the creation of GBR present . Maritime Sector what step she be take to support the maritime sector . what step she be take to support sustainability in the maritime sector . what step she be take to support the maritime sector . the recently publish maritime decarbonisation strategy support sustainable growth , work with industry to reach zero emission by 2050 , support by £ 30 million for clean maritime research and development . the Government have also allocate £ 850 , 000 to maritime cluster to support skill and training programme , boost growth and improve our coastal community . Cornwall have a thriving maritime sector , particularly in Falmouth , that be well - serve by training establishment , such as Cornwall Marine Network and Falmouth marine school , as well as lead apprenticeship programme across Falmouth . much of that centre around our Port of Falmouth . will the Ports Minister meet I and official from the Treasury to ensure that Government support reach Falmouth port and that Cornwall can take advantage of the new green job that will be provide by the port ' s upgrade ? my hon . friend be a fierce advocate for the maritime community in her constituency . this Government be commit to unlock investment in UK port , and I be delighted by the announcement just yesterday by LS Eco Advanced Cables that it will be invest £ 1 billion into the Port of Tyne , which will be the first of many such investment over the month and year ahead . we be streamline regulatory and planning process , update our national policy statement for port , which be long overdue , and we will make target investment through the national wealth fund . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss that . the Port of Dover have ambitious target to be the first green shipping corridor . what be the Government ' s plan to ensure sufficient power supply to the port for ship to plug into ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that infrastructure , which be so important to our nation . I be pleased to meet Doug Bannister , the chief executive officer of the Port of Dover , just the other day to talk about these matter . this Government be implement a new strategic planning process and reform connection to ensure that electricity meet future demand . if we do that right , we can have the green shipping corridor in the world . Fleetwood , in my constituency , have a proud fishing industry , but our port be currently massively underused . the Government ' s clean power mission be a huge opportunity for port like Fleetwood to take advantage of job and investment bring by offshore wind project . will the Minister meet I to ensure that the Port of Fleetwood get the investment it need to take advantage of those project , so that my community can start to rebuild after the last 14 year of austerity inflict on it by the previous Conservative Government ? that be so true . I be delighted to join my hon . friend on a recent visit to Fleetwood nautical campus in her constituency , where I see the excellent facility and what a fantastic advocate she be for the people of Fleetwood and its port . I briefly meet with the soon - to - be new owner of that port . once that deal be finalise and they have plan to progress , I will sit down with my hon . friend and the new owner to look at the potential for what we can achieve there . Isle of Wight ferry company , Red Funnel , be control by canadian pension fund . it be unregulated and charge Isle of Wight resident up to £ 400 to take a return car ferry crossing . do the Minister support that ownership model and pricing structure for a lifeline transport connection in the UK ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that the Avanti up to Manchester can cost more , but that do not help his constituent in the Isle of Wight , who have be struggle for some time . that be why I go to the Isle of Wight to meet the hon . member and representative from the council . we be establish an local transport forum , and we have agree a number of way forward , look at ticketing , pricing and the reliability of those ferry to the Island . I promise to continue to be engage , but I will need the hon . member ' s help with this as well . in common with the hon . member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) , I have concern about the fishing sector . in term of maritime need and co - ordination with the drive towards net zero , and with the push towards marine - base renewable energy , what discussion have take place with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero to ensure that the need of the fishing industry be consider , weight and fully evaluate ? this be a huge opportunity for the UK . our mission to have clean energy by 2030 be an incredible target , and we be get on with it . that mean make big decision with the Crown Estate , our fishery , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the Department for Transport and Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . we be work together at pace , and we be begin to see some of the fruit of that , such as the investment in the Port of Tyne that I just mention , but the work be ongoing . Rail Services : North Wales what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the performance of rail service operate from north Wales . despite recent improvement , the performance of Avanti West Coast ' s service in north Wales be still not good enough . Poor Network Rail infrastructure reliability also remain an issue . North Wales and its surround region have such huge potential , so I be actively engage with the Welsh Government on plan to create a transport system that meet the need of all our community and deliver economic growth . rail play a vital role in the north Wales economy , so I welcome the recent announcement of 12 additional service per week between Holyhead and London . however , that remain a shadow of the pre - covid timetable , which see up to 14 daily direct service . the north Wales line regularly see more cancellation and poor reliability than other part of the west coast franchise . it be vital that with economic growth , tourism and access to employment across north Wales and beyond , we see a return to a more frequent and reliable service pattern . what measure be the Secretary of State take to ensure that that happen ? the uplift in service level between London and Holyhead from this Sunday be indeed welcome , and I agree that a reliable service be deliver for the passenger of north Wales be vital for economic growth . I recognise that Wales have not see its fair share of funding historically , and I be committed to continue rail infrastructure investment in Wales to release capacity and improve reliability . the midland rail hub be back by the previous Government . it will unlock and drive economic growth across the west midland and beyond , include into Wales , and improve the performance of exist rail service . when will the Secretary of State make an announcement in her review of that project , or be this just another example of the Treasury reversing or hold up investment in our region ? I can see that Mr Speaker be smile ; I congratulate the right hon . Lady on her ingenuity in work in a question about the midland . she be right to talk about the benefit of the midland rail hub . she will be aware that a spending review process be under way , and I anticipate be able to say more on that project in due course . Brighton main line : capacity whether she plan to increase rail capacity on the Brighton main line . official in my Department be in regular discussion with Network Rail and train operator on opportunity to improve service across the Brighton main line , take account of change to commuter travel since the pandemic . decision about the Department ' s capital portfolio will be announce after completion of the 2025 spending review , ensure that every penny spend support our mission and our plan for growth . Network Rail have identify that if the Croydon area remodelling scheme be not undertake , capacity through East Croydon will be exhaust by 2030 , prevent passenger from across much of southern England from be able to travel to London . give that the Department for Transport have outline that it be minded to approve Gatwick airport ' s capacity increase , almost double the overall number , so long as 54 % of passenger travel by public transport — that be in addition to the 2030 figure — will the Minister outline how it be possible to achieve that without the work be undertake ? I appreciate the work that my hon . friend be do to stand up for his constituent , who rely so much on rail service . as he acknowledge , plan for a major upgrade to the Brighton main line be cancel by the previous Government in the 2021 spending review , and they do not even acknowledge that that have happen . Network Rail be fund to progress automatic route - set signal technology to far enhance performance across the Brighton main line . further decision will be make after the spending review . aviation Sector what step she be take to support the aviation sector . we be unlock growth by progress airport planning decision and invite third runway proposal for Heathrow by the summer . a new UK airspace design service and support fund will drive airspace modernisation . we introduce the sustainable aviation fuel mandate , and yesterday we propose a revenue certainty mechanism to support UK production . SaxonAir , Norwich airport and Norfolk and Suffolk county council recently launch Aviation East , a call to make East Anglia the heart of aviation innovation . we be already lead in the development of electric aircraft and the early availability of sustainable aviation fuel , but we could do so much more to unlock growth and deliver job . will the Minister outline how this Government will support aviation in the east ? I be due to meet he soon , but will he also come to Norwich , take a flight in an electric plane and see what innovation be under way ? this Government want to see the UK maximise the benefit of the future of flight technology , include fly taxi , both for the economy and for community . we recently announce over £ 20 million of Government funding for the Civil Aviation Authority and the future flight challenge to deliver the future flight programme this year . that joint programme between industry , Government and the CAA will enhance drone capability by 2027 , with fly taxi in the UK ' s sky by 2028 . I would be delighted to visit Norwich and the airport in my hon . friend ' s constituency . as the Minister be well aware , the Government have support and sign off on the development consent order for Manston airport in my constituency . it be hope and expect that the final private funding for that package will be in place and that work will start in the very near future . will the Minister now reaffirm his support for the contribution that Manston can and will make to freight and growth in the United Kingdom , and can he also seek to expedite the necessary licence at the appropriate time ? I be delighted to spend my Easter holiday in the right hon . member ' s constituency , cycle the Cantii way . I stop and take a look at Manston airport — and a sip of water from my bottle , because it be a hot day . I be look forward to the outcome of the talk and the funding , and at that point I will be happy to look at the proposal from Manston and sit down with the right hon . member to unlock that capacity . my hon . friend will be as aware as I be that the air passenger duty , which be introduce by a Conservative Chancellor more than 30 year ago , have be study intensively . every study show that the revenue generate by that tax be much less than the benefit of abolish it . will my hon . friend and the Secretary of State try to talk some sense into the Chancellor of the Exchequer and her official , to get rid of this tax and benefit both aviation and the economy ? I would never disagree with the former leader of my council , but on this occasion , I might have to . I pay tribute to my hon . friend as somebody who be chairman of the airport that deliver the only international runway in this country in 80 year . air passenger duty be part of the rich mix of the aviation tapestry ; however , last month in April , Heathrow have 7 . 1 million passenger through its door , the large number ever . Most airport and airline be see demand go through the roof . we be modernise the airspace , decarbonise the fuel and unlock the constraint on our airport , which be why we be see record passenger number . I recognise the vital importance of the aviation sector , but any airport expansion — include at Bristol airport — should reflect the cumulative impact of emission and our legal commitment to net zero . do the Minister support the Climate Change Committee ' s advice , publish last year , that no airport expansion should proceed without a UK - wide capacity management framework ? first , I congratulate Bristol on the excellent job it be do and the growth it be see . we have strict criterion on carbon emission , noise , growth and pollution at our airport . that be our guide principle as a Government , but we also want to see local ambition in term of growth . those carbon budget be fix ; we still want to reach net zero by 2050 , even with the growth in our air market that be expect over the next few year . I call the shadow Secretary of State . as we approach the summer holiday , we know that many family be look forward to the opportunity to get away . however , in what may come as concern news , Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill could threaten passenger ' ability to travel without disruption or additional cost . this be because in exist passenger right legislation , under article 5 ( 1 ) ( c ) ( i ) of Regulation 261 , passenger be entitle to compensation if they be inform of cancellation less than two week before their flight . the Employment Rights Bill reduce the require notice period for strike action in any industry from 14 day to 10 day , increase the risk of last - minute cancellation . that could in theory cost airline ten of million of pound , which could in turn lead to high cost for passenger as airline pass the expense on to the travel public . do the Minister agree that the Government should maintain the 14 - day notice period in aviation , put the interest of passenger ahead of those of their union friend ? the shadow Secretary of State will forgive I if I have not read that sub - paragraph that trip off the tongue . this government will always put passenger first . that be why more passenger than ever be fly in our sky and leave our airport . the Department be fully engage with the aviation sector at all stage , include on this issue . drive Test Backlog what step she be take to reduce the backlog for drive test . last month , the Secretary of State announce further measure to tackle the unacceptable driving test backlog , include double training capacity for drive test examiner and offer overtime pay incentive to provide extra test . that will create up to 10 , 000 extra test a month . we be determined to get Britain ' s driver move . I thank the Minister for her effort towards improve access to drive test . however , in my constituency of Broxtowe , I continually get email say that people be struggle to book test due to a shortage of examiner . will she provide we with an update follow the instruction make last year to the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency to double the number of examiner be train ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . we be hold the DVSA to account for successfully implement the measure in last December ' s seven - point plan . some 165 new driving examiner have already pass their training and be work in drive test centre , and last year the DVSA provide 1 . 95 million test . this month , it will launch an accelerated consultation on improvement to the test booking system to end the reselling of test and the exploitation of learner , which be completely unacceptable . do the Minister acknowledge that part of what have happen as a result of the pressure test have be a displacement of learner driver to test centre in rural area , where they perceive that there might be less waiting time ? that be prejudice against local applicant . will she do everything she can to ensure that local applicant for test get priority ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important point . we know that people be book test in part of the country where they have no intention of take a test , because they can swap that for a test in another driving test centre . that be one of the issue address in the call for evidence that be launch in December . we have hear that evidence , and we will consult on further change to the booking system that might address the issue that he raise . I call the shadow Minister . at the Transport Committee in April , the Secretary of State admit that under Labour ' s watch , " wait time for access to drive test hit new high . " for all the talk of a new plan , she then admit that the Government only aim to reduce driving test wait time to seven week by " summer next year " . that be no good for young people wait , need the freedom to drive to get to college or work now , be it ? when will the Government see the real urgency for real people and pick up the pace ? we be act to fix the mess that the shadow Minister ' s Government leave behind . our seven - point plan be be implement , and last month , the Secretary of State announce additional measure . we be determined to succeed where the last Government fail . I do not think the Minister have get the memo that she be in charge now . the Government can not hide behind the same old excuse and try to blame other , as average test volume be now low — on a month - by - month basis — than they be in the previous two year . in quarter 1 alone , nearly 100 , 000 few test be conduct than in the same period in 2024 . the average waiting time for a drive test in the UK sit at 22 week — over five month . that be up from 17 . 1 week in July 2024 and 20 . 4 week in February 2025 . for all the Government ' s promise , there have be no actual delivery . why have capacity not increase or , at the very least , stay the same as when we be in charge ? the hon . Gentleman be not listen . we be implement the seven - point plan , but turn around the mess and the problem that the Conservatives leave we take time . I be determined that we will see the result , that waiting time will come down and that we will support learner driver . it can not be do overnight when we be try to fix 14 year of mess . Pavement Parking what recent discussion she have have with local authority on pavement parking regulation . when she plan to respond to the consultation entitle " pavement parking : option for change " , publish on 31 August 2020 . this Government be commit to publish a formal response to the consultation and announce the next step for pavement parking as soon as possible . we be currently consider the consultation outcome , include the view of many local authority , and the option for tackle this nuisance . back in 2018 , I have an Adjournment debate on pavement parking after meet my then constituent Margaret and Laurel , who be both visually impaired . they tell I — in fact , they demonstrate to I — that pavement parking prevent they from use pavement safely , which undermine their independence and confidence , and put they at risk of injury . my Blaydon and Consett constituent continue to raise this issue , but we see little action under the last government . what progress have the Minister ' s Department make on respond to the consultation and on provide guidance to local authority ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . the previous Government fail to act and , like she , I be determined to tackle pavement parking . that be why I have meet representative of Guide Dogs , Living Streets , Sustrans and Transport for all to discuss this very important issue , which be absolutely fundamental to the safety and accessibility of our public realm . I can assure my hon . friend that I be on the case , and I look forward to set out the way forward very soon . I thank the Minister for her response , and I be really pleased to see that she be committed to address pavement parking . it be absolutely essential that it be address for my constituent in Redhill , where it be a real problem . as the Minister will know , Guide Dogs have be run a campaign for many year on address pavement parking , give the impact it have on those who be visually impaired . give the Minister ' s enthusiasm for solve this problem , can she please give we an idea of the timescale for deliver a solution — not the recommendation , but a solution — so that those with visual impairment and my constituent can navigate pavement safely ? I thank the hon . Lady for her support in act to tackle what be a nuisance not just for disabled people , but for child walk on the pavement and for parent push buggy and pram . it be really important that we get this right . I be work speedily with my official to do so , and I look forward to be able to announce the outcome of the consultation and our next step shortly . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for her answer and for all she do on this issue in her previous role as Chair of the Transport Committee . regulation prohibit pavement parking already exist in London , but that alone will not solve the problem . at all saint ' primary school in south Wimbledon , for example , pavement parking be a long - run issue , force parent and child into the road and obvious danger , and it be prove very difficult to solve . have the Minister consider how the public can be well educate and restriction enforce ? be the Government plan to create a new offence of obstructive parking , as the Minister recommend in her previous role ? I thank the hon . member for his question , and he be right to raise the impact that pavement parking have on the ability of child to walk safely to school , which we want to encourage . there be many thing we can do , and he be right to say that part of the mix be communication and publicity to explain the danger that pavement parking pose to pedestrian . Vehicle registration : compliance what step she be take to help improve compliance with vehicle registration regulation by driver . my hon . friend have rightly identify the importance of hold the correct information to identify the keeper of every vehicle operate on our road . the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency work closely with the police , who have the power to seize non - compliant vehicle . I recently speak to a road police officer about driver who use illegal number plate , such as ghost number plate that can not be read by police and speed camera . he tell I : " the scale at which this problem now exist be frightening . these plate be on every street , in every town and they be be use to openly commit offence and evade capture , in the knowledge there ' s very little we can do about it . the problem be only get bad , pose huge danger on our road . we need to toughen up the law urgently " . will the Minister set out the action she be take to increase the penalty for use these ghost plate to at least £ 1 , 000 and six penalty point , and put an end to this number plate wild west that be endanger our street ? my hon . friend be a great campaigner , and she be right to continue to highlight this issue . it be already illegal to sell and display that type of number plate , but I recognise that there be more to do . the DVLA be work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council , the Home Office , various police force and trading standard on the supply and use of these illegal number plate , and implement strict penalty and fine will be consider as part of our work on the new road safety strategy . condition of Local Roads what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . we be determined to end the pothole plague on our road , which be the result of a decade of under - investment by the previous Government . we have provide an extra £ 500 million for council this year to allow they to make an immediate start on this . in Birmingham , people be feed up , as they be in other part of the country , of pothole and drain that go uncleared , after year of underfunding and short - term budget , but unlike in other part of the country , those service be provide under a historical private finance initiative contract . will the Minister update the House on when a decision will be make about the future of that contract , and what step she will take with the local authority so that Birmingham ' s road get well ? my hon . friend have be dog in raise this issue with I and the Department , and I assure he that we will make an announcement on the way forward as soon as possible . follow a consultation with the council , we have be carefully consider its formal representation on this matter , and we be commit to work together in the good interest of his constituent , the people of Birmingham and the taxpayer . motorist and cyclist across the country be still face the Tory pothole plague . in Derby , 17 % of our road be in a poor condition due to Tory austerity . it be not right that driver have to fork out hard - earn cash to the tune of a whopping £ 460 for repair that be more severe than a puncture . can the Minister please outline how her Department plan to crack on with protect driver and fix pothole in Derby , the east midland and across the UK ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . this year , we be provide local authority in England with £ 1 . 6 billion of funding for road maintenance , include more than £ 75 million for the East Midlands combine authority , of which over £ 4 . 3 million be for Derbyshire . those council can now get on with the job . we have also introduce new reporting requirement , mean that from next month people will be able to see exactly what their council be do with that money . we will end Britain ' s pothole plague . on - street parking have an effect on our local road . in king Langley , my local high street be suffer significantly from the Liberal Democrat - lead council impose parking restriction in a way that have cause confusion not just to business but to local resident . can the Minister give any guidance to Dacorum council on how to communicate well with resident to ensure that on - street parking be properly adhere to , but not to the detriment of our high street ? I understand how important it be for people to access their high street . that issue obviously relate to parking , but it be also about the availability of active travel and public transport . I be not go to dictate how local authority should implement parking restriction in their area ; that be for they to decide . we provide they with the power and the resource , and it be for local people to decide what be right for their area . the previous Government spend £ 250 , 000 on a study of the A259 coast road in my constituency , yet resident have see no improvement whatever to the road . the town of Newhaven be particularly badly affect ; daily gridlock be affect business and resident , to the detriment of the condition of the road . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we might work together to resolve the traffic crisis on the a259 in my constituency ? I would be very happy to meet the hon . gentleman to hear more about the issue affect his constituent and to discuss what we may be able to do to support they so that they have an enhanced road network . Rail access : Grimsby and Cleethorpes what step she be take to improve rail access to Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes constituency . subject to final industry planning , East Midlands Railway plan to introduce an all - day direct Nottingham - Cleethorpes service in December , improve connection at Lincoln for journey to London . the Rail Minister have be look closely into possible direct train between London and Cleethorpes , and look forward to discuss that with my hon . friend at their upcoming meeting . local analysis show that a direct service from Cleethorpes to London could deliver growth of over £ 30 million a year to our region . as well as LNER , Grand Central have launch an application to operate that service . the project be back by local business , industry and constituent . will the Minister work with I to ensure that this train definitely leave the station ? my hon . friend be a huge advocate for her constituency . any additional service will be dependent on funding from the spending review . the Rail Minister will meet my hon . friend to discuss the proposal far , follow the conclusion of the spending review . the Department continue to review the application from Grand Central to introduce open - access service between London and Cleethorpes , and will provide its view to the regulator in due course . access to the rail network , however , be ultimately a decision for the regulator . as the House will know , I have be raise the prospect of a direct service from Cleethorpes and Grimsby to King ' s Cross since 2011 . will the Minister give an absolute assurance that he and the Rail Minister will seriously consider the importance of that and actually deliver a service ? we do not mind whether it be run by LNER or Grand Central ; we just want a direct service to boost the local economy . as I say , a decision be ultimately a matter for the regulator . open access can provide benefit such as improved connectivity and choice for passenger , but it can also increase cost to taxpayer and create additional performance pressure on an already constrain network . the Department will always look at application on a case - by - case basis and feed into the regulator ' s decision . low Thames Crossing what recent progress her Department have make on construct the low Thames crossing . in March , we take the decision to approve National Highways ' planning application for the low Thames crossing , which be a big step forward for the project and end decade of inaction by previous government . ahead of construction , my official and National Highways be explore all funding option , include private finance . as with all capital project , spending decision be subject to the spending review process . I welcome that response , the certainty the decision have provide to people live in the Thames estuary , and the visit yesterday to supply - chain business by our right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . will the Secretary of State for Transport confirm that she will meet I and a delegation of Kent and south - east London mps to discuss how we can ensure that investment and skill be secure for local supply chain and the development of further education college ? I would be very happy to have that meeting with my hon . friend and his colleague . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . after year of dither and delay , we be take bold action to take the brake off growth , create job and get Britain move . last week , we announce a low minimum age for train driver to future - proof our railway and prevent frustrating cancellation , and we have grant planning permission for the low Thames crossing , a strategic freight route between the south - east and the rest of the country . we be also strengthen our aviation industry . planning approval have be give for the expansion of Luton airport , a final decision on Gatwick will be make as soon as possible , follow the airport ' s submission of further information , and we look forward to receive proposal for a third runway at Heathrow later this summer . finally , we introduce the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill yesterday , give confidence to the industry as it chart a green future . these measure show how we be deliver on our plan for change : drive opportunity , create well journey and improve living standard up and down the country . I thank the Secretary of State for set out those positive opportunity for the future . air passenger duty adversely impact economic opportunity for company in Northern Ireland . to continue the positivity from the Secretary of State , would she commit to ask Cabinet colleague to adjust the block grant for Northern Ireland to allow a reduction in APD in order to enhance connectivity within this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I appreciate the importance of aviation to the Northern Ireland economy and thank the hon . gentleman for his interest in this matter . as the Minister responsible for aviation , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) say in answer to substantive question , airport be currently see their busy time ever . this Government feel that our approach to APD be proportionate give the fantastic demand we be see . reliable bus service be not just a privilege ; they be the backbone of community across my constituency , and connect individual to school , job , financial service and social interaction with family and friend . rural community in Northumberland deserve the same opportunity as our more urban region . do the Minister agree that as the Government ' s well bus Bill proceed to its further stage , we must not overlook rural voice on the service that they need ? improve bus connectivity in rural area be vital for kick - start growth . our Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill will give local leader the power they need for their community , include in Northumberland , which as part of the North East combine authority be allocate £ 23 million in 2025 - 26 to improve service . I call the shadow Secretary of State . at the last transport question , on 27 March , in the context of the Secretary of State say on television that some strike be " necessary " , I point out that the trade union have welcome her rail reform plan and say that " a just transition to nationalisation would mean the levelling up of pay and condition for rail worker . " the cost of that to the taxpayer would be considerable . when I ask the Secretary of State whether she would " consider a strike over harmonise pay and condition to be a necessary strike " , — [ Official Report , 27 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 1099 . ] she avoid answer the question , which be uncharacteristic of she . I will give she another chance now : would that be a necessary strike ? the answer I give to the shadow Secretary of State ' s previous question be that if , as an operator of the railway , we feel it be necessary to take a strike on ground of safety , we would , of course , put the safety of the travel public first — that will always be the case . on the harmonisation of term and condition , we need to bring legislation forward to establish great British Railways . we will have many discussion with our trade union colleague in a constructive way while ensure that we provide value for money for the taxpayer . Project Willow support the potential of sustainable aviation fuel to bring job to Grangemouth , if the right policy be in place such as flexibility on the cap on hydroprocessed ester and fatty acid , and expediency on the revenue certainty mechanism . what be the Department do urgently to assess , integrate and implement the recommendation of Project Willow and to support accelerated investment at Grangemouth ? my hon . friend be a doughty champion for the Grangemouth refinery . he ask what we be do : yesterday , we introduce the SAF Bill to bring forward the revenue certainty mechanism , and we continue to consider the Project Willow report and its recommendation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . follow the fire at North Hyde substation that close Heathrow a few week ago , various line on the London Underground be bring to a standstill by another power outage this week . it be clear that we need to do more to improve the resilience of our transport energy infrastructure , so will the Secretary of State commit to a full review to ensure that these incident do not keep happen ? a review be be conduct by the National Energy System Operator on the Heathrow substation fire . the interim report have be publish , and we expect the full report in June . the Heathrow report be expect to go to its board in May . my Department and I work very closely with all transport operator to ensure that they have robust resilience plan in place . the Government be conduct a review of critical national infrastructure to address the broad question . in Hartlepool , to make a journey of just 2 . 8 mile from St Hild ' s school to the Headland require two bus and take approximately 40 minute . the Hartlepool transport user forum and resident across the town have have enough . other part of the country be put bus back into public hand . will the Minister mandate Tees Valley combined authority to do the same for Hartlepool ? I hope the Tees Valley Mayor be look at the great work that Labour mayor be already do across the country to transform public transport in their region . resident in Cheltenham remain extremely frustrated about the state of the road . we have too many pothole and the approach take to the maintenance of our high street by the previous Conservative county council administration have be substandard . the state of our strand and the threat to our promenade be at the forefront of people ' s mind . we have finally have a change of administration , with the Liberal Democrats now in charge of the county council . what can the Secretary of State and Ministers do to reassure I that the Liberal Democrat county council will be give the tool that it need to fix our road and maintain our high street properly ? the Department be provide Gloucestershire county council with an extra £ 9 million of highway maintenance funding this year , take its total funding to £ 35 million . that will allow the council to get on with the job of fix those pothole . I be absolutely delighted to see the Government push forward with the new low Thames crossing . be there plan to explore widen the carriage in the part that need it from the crossing to Dover to assist trade transit ? improvement to the A2 as it approach Dover be be consider as part of the pipeline of enhancement be develop for possible delivery in a future road investment strategy beyond 2030 . last month , I visit the Pidley Lorry Group to discuss its campaign to introduce a 7 . 5 tonne weight limit to prevent hgv from use the village as a shortcut . have enforce the use of the self - fund route by Cambridgeshire county council , the cost to the group so have be in excess of £ 7 , 000 . there be similar example affect Upwood and Alconbury , which be also village impact by high volume of HGV through traffic . what be the Government do to reduce the bureaucracy and expense for our rural community , so that they can maintain their quality of life and the safety of those who live there ? local authority already have the power that they need to restrict hgv to certain vehicle or to place weight limit . if the hon . Member want to write to I with further detail of the particular issue to which he refer , I would be happy to look at that . my constituent in Bishopthorpe and Copmanthorpe be sick of put up with unsafe hgv movement . child walk to school have be involve in near miss , yet the traffic commissioner can not take that into account , so will my hon . friend meet I to discuss this case ? traffic commissioner consider road safety up to the point where the operating centre join the highway , but , beyond that , it be probably a matter for the local authority or the police . although traffic commissioner independence be crucial and ministerial influence would be improper , I will be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss his road safety concern and how they might be tackle . my constituent in Tiverton and Minehead face many challenge when it come to transport connectivity . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the merit of a strategic outline business case set out by West Somerset Railway to reconnect the heritage railway line at Bishops Lydeard to the mainline at Taunton ? that would allow student to access the only sixth - form facility in Taunton , take the pressure off the no . 28 bus , and massively improve our ability to entertain more tourist . the hon . Lady mention this to I a couple of day ago when I bump into she , but I regret to inform she that the Department do not currently have any plan to take forward a development link between Bishops Lydeard and Taunton . I have , however , ask official to reach out to those at the local authority to discuss the merit of the scheme . in the ' 60 , North West Leicestershire lose its only passenger rail service , the Ivanhoe line . in 2025 , my constituent still have no direct access to the rail line . increase connectivity of railway be crucial to secure economic growth . will the Minister share the Department ' s plan to improve access to passenger rail for community with no current access ? I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this far . airport across the country be participate in the airspace modernisation review . however , there be a clear conflict of interest between environmental imperative and profit motive . will the Secretary of State undertake to introduce an independent member on each airspace review panel ? the Government be press on with airspace modernisation and have set up the UK Airspace Design Service . I recently meet the hon . member in my office to discuss this issue . we continue at pace on this work and will be consult widely . every week on my journey to and from this place I join constituent on overcrowded Chiltern Railways train that be often advertise as standing room only . the old class of carriage operate on that network have an average age of 47 year . in the light of this , can minister tell I what action the Department be take to support the replacement and refurbishment of these carriage to improve capacity , service reliability , and passenger experience and comfort ? Chiltern Railways face challenge with age train and be engage in commercial negotiation to replace its old Mark 3 carriage . the Department be collaborate with Chiltern to ensure that the procurement deliver long - term passenger benefit . separately , the Chiltern Class 168 fleet be undergo significant refurbishment , include to its interior , and improvement to reliability . the 7 . 58 be train from Sunbury to Shepperton be use by a lot of schoolchildren in my constituency to get to school , but it be cancel for four day during a recent six - day period , which mean that child be late for school . that appear on their attendance register , which follow they throughout life . the Secretary of State will own South Western Railway by the end of the month . will she commit to improve the reliability and punctuality of that section of the line ? with the transfer of south western train into public ownership in 10 day ' time , the Government be determined to turn this situation around , but I have to say that we have inherit an abject mess from the train operate company , which over six year have fail to get the new fleet of Arterio 701 train into service . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . at yesterday ' s Transport Committee hearing , the Minister for Local Transport outline the measure that the Government be take to reverse the 15 - year decline in bus service . the measure will protect many at - risk bus route and may deliver a few more , but as they deliver growth and reduce congestion , do the Government have a wide ambition to ensure that all rural and non - city area in England have at least a basic level of bus service so that everyone can get to school , work and the shop , and use public service without need to drive a car ? I have to say , I really enjoy my appearance at the Select Committee yesterday . ultimately , we want people to choose to take the bus because it provide well connection in every part of the country to get people where they need be . it be a more reliable , more affordable , fast and more integrated form of transport , and I hope to see that in debate with member across the House as the bus Bill proceed . Farnborough airport ' s noise and emission pollution affect a significant part of my constituency . the airport have announce that it will be launch its consultation to expand in August . this have obviously bring a lot of concern from resident group and campaigner , who be worried that people will be away at this time . what can the Minister do to ensure that there be maximum engagement with the public and therefore a proper consultation ? I thank the hon . member for his question , but he will know that this matter be for the determination of Rushmoor borough council , the local planning authority . he will appreciate that this be a live application , so it would not be appropriate for I to comment at this time . business on the Newhouse and Bulwark industrial estate in Chepstow be desperate to keep use the M48 severn bridge , which will be close to lorry for at least 12 month . by the end of May , they will have to add at least 30 mile to their journey over the border , seriously affect profitability and growth . will the Minister meet I and Monmouthshire county council to find a solution , such as control flow , so that we do not hold back economic growth in Monmouthshire ? safety be our no . 1 priority , and the weight restriction be about future - proof the bridge for year to come , but I know how disruptive it be when a key crossing be close or restrict to traffic . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend . I call Sir Jeremy Hunt . thank you for squeeze I in , Mr Speaker . be the Secretary of State aware that to access the platform at Ash Vale station in my constituency , people have to go up multiple flight of step , equivalent to two or three floor , make it all but impossible for many old people and disabled people to use the rail network ? before she decide on how to allocate funding under the Access for all scheme in the spending review , will she or one of her Ministers visit Ash Vale , where we promise she a warm Surrey welcome ? that doesn ' t always work . I be aware that feasibility study have be do on 50 access for all station , and we be review the outcome of those study . I apologise to the right hon . gentleman for not know whether that station in his constituency be one of those 50 . I promise he that I will talk to official about the matter . in Chorley ' s case , work start but it have still not be finish . it be abandon halfway through . resident across my constituency regularly raise with I the issue of pothole and the state of our road in general . I greatly appreciate the additional funding provide by the Government to South Gloucestershire council to help with improvement . this be about safety . it also about pride of place and the cost of vehicle repair — all these thing matter — so what will the next step be to support council to keep road up to scratch once the pothole be fill ? we be provide record amount for local authority this year , and we hope to provide a long - term funding settlement for local road maintenance after the spending review . will the Secretary of State accept my warm invitation to visit my constituency and sit in traffic with I so she can experience what my constituent experience morning , noon and night on the A27 , which be strangle economic growth in the area and prevent investment ? as tempting as the hon . Lady ' s invitation be , I regret that I will not be able to do that , and I will not commit the road Minister to it either , but we will look at the matter she raise and write to she with an update on the action we think could be take to improve the situation . economic growth require people to be able to get to work . this morning , yet another road traffic accident happen on the stretch of M6 motorway that go through my constituency and yours , Mr Speaker . this have a hugely disruptive impact on the mainly small road around it in my constituency . yet again , my resident in Longridge , Grimsargh and all the surround area wake up to the prospect of another journey to work that take two hour instead of 20 minute , and that be become a monthly — if not weekly — occurrence . will the Minister meet I to discuss what can be do ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend . congestion on the A38 in Bromsgrove be make it nearly impossible for resident to get around easily — yet , despite current investment , there be widespread scepticism that the Bromsgrove route enhancement plan , know locally as BREP , will improve the situation . do the Minister agree that investment in transport must deliver a tangible improvement in traffic flow , and will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss investment in Bromsgrove so that we can keep Bromsgrove move ? I understand the hon . member ' s wish to get his constituent move ; it be one that we share . I would be happy to look at his concern in relation to the A38 , and I will contact he with further information . in 2022 , the previous Government cut a significant number of southeastern service that my constituent in Bexleyheath and Crayford rely on . my constituent continue to raise concern that direct service from London Charing Cross to Barnehurst and Bexleyheath should be reinstate during the evening and weekend . could the Minister provide an update on progress to reinstate those service ? southeastern plan service to meet passenger demand while ensure value for money for the taxpayer . timetable be keep under review and can be adjust to reflect fluctuation in demand . I be pleased to say that four additional weekday evening service will be introduce on the route in December . Speaker ' s statement : Ministerial Code once again , I have have to grant an urgent question on a matter that be brief extensively to the medium in recent day . I recognise that a write ministerial statement be issue , but I be surprised that the Government do not think that member would want an opportunity to question Ministers on a very important issue . on Monday , the Home Secretary be unapologetic about the fact that detail of the immigration White Paper be give to the medium , start on Sunday morning , before it be lay before this House and long before she come to make a statement . I note that those who now occupy senior ministerial role be not slow to complain when the previous Government make major policy announcement outside this place . I will continue to uphold and defend the right of this House — the right of Back Benchers — to be the first to hear the most important announcement of Government policy and the right of hon . member to question Ministers on those announcement in person . that be my position under the previous Government and it have not change under this Government . it be clear to I that the general principle set out in paragraph 9 . 1 of the ministerial code be be disregard more often than it be observe . I will write to the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee to invite that Committee to consider the issue in more detail . if the Government be not go to take the ministerial code seriously , who will ? I do not like do this . I believe that I be here to represent all Back Benchers , and Back Benchers have the right to question Ministers first . I be not interested in Sky News , the BBC or political programme ; I be here to defend you all , and I will continue to defend you . I say to the Government : please do not take mps for grant . it be not acceptable . I know it be not the fault of the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , who be about to respond to the urgent question , but the message have to go back loud and clear : when you be in the wrong , apologise to member . Mr Speaker , I hear your word very clearly . I very much respect the role of Parliament and I be pleased to be here today to follow up the write ministerial statement that be lay yesterday by the Lord Chancellor . order . let I gently say to the Minister : you would not be here at all if I have not grant the urgent question . that be the thing we should remember . you be only here because I have decide that you should be here . please , do not try to take advantage of a situation that be not of your own making . I will certainly apologise , Mr Speaker . I be not try to take advantage . clearly , it also take the action of the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , lay an urgent question . that be how Parliament work , and rightly so . order . I do not want to labour the point — but , no , this be not the way we should be act . the statement should have be bring here on the day the plan be announce . let we get this very , very clear : this be not about have to grant an urgent question ; this be about the Government do the right thing , rather than somebody else have to drag Ministers here . that be not how we should be work . thank you , Mr Speaker . I be sorry for any misinformation that I have give in try to respond . you be a good Minister and a nice person . thank you , Mr Speaker . we respect each other , and I respect very much that you be stand up for Parliament , which be exactly the right thing to do . I applaud that . recall offender : sentencing Limits ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Justice if she will make a statement on the public safety implication of the Government ' s plan to set a 28 - day limit on prison sentence for recall offender . the Lord Chancellor lay a write ministerial statement yesterday , the background to which be the change around fix - term recall in the light of the prison capacity challenge that the Government face . when we be elect almost a year ago , we inherit a prison system on the brink of collapse . although we take immediate action to prevent the catastrophe , prison continue to be perilously close to fill up entirely . last December we publish a long - term building strategy , set out our aim to open up 14 , 000 prison place by 2031 . that be the large expansion of the prison estate since the Victorians . we have already commit £ 2 . 3 billion to prison expansion , and since take office we have deliver 2 , 400 new place . we also commission the independent sentencing review , which will report shortly . the sentencing review will hopefully offer we a path to end the capacity crisis in our prison for good , but the impact of sentencing reform will not be feel before next spring . on our current trajectory , we will hit zero capacity in our prison in November — we can not allow that to happen . that be why we have announce our intention to lay a fix - term recall statutory instrument that will mean that those serve sentence of between one and four year can only be return to prison for a fix 28 - day period . the measure build on previous legislation , introduce by the last government , that mandate 14 - day recall for those serve sentence of under a year . to be clear , high - risk offender have be exempt from that change . if further information relate to an offender ' s risk be receive after they have be recall which mean they be no long consider suitable for fix - term recall , they may be detain for long on a standard recall if that be assess as necessary . I call the shadow Secretary of State . " sorry " seem to be the hard word today . I see that the Justice Secretary have still not come to Parliament to defend her policy . yesterday she deliberately avoid scrutiny in this House , because she know that this decision be wildly unpopular and risk the safety of the public . to govern be to choose . there be 10 , 500 foreign criminal in our jail and 17 , 000 people in prison await trial . combine , those two group make up roughly a third of the prison population . the sensible step forward would obviously be to introduce emergency measure to expedite deportation and get the court sit around the clock . if the Justice Secretary choose to do that , we would support she , but so far she have not . she have refuse to take the judiciary up on its offer of extra court sitting day . it be not uncommon for as many as half the court at the Old Bailey to sit empty on any give day . instead , she have decide to let out early criminal who reoffend or breach their licence . there be now no punishment or deterrent for criminal who immediately reoffend or cheat the system . the Justice Secretary say these people will be " in prison outside of prison " — I be sure that harden criminal will be quake in their boot at that farcical doublespeak . there be no two way about it : this decision have put the public in danger and victim in jeopardy . the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , Nicole Jacobs , have say that she " can not stress enough the lack of consideration for victim ' safety and how many life be be put in danger " . be the Justice Secretary or her Minister really tell domestic abuse victim that their abuser will be back on the street in just 28 day if they breach their licence , and that nobody will even check with the Parole Board ? can the Minister explain to the House who be exempt from the scheme , because right now confusion reign ? yesterday the Justice Secretary give the impression that no domestic abuser or sexual offender would be eligible for her scheme , but her Department have since say that it will include " many " but not all . the write ministerial statement lay yesterday deliberately conceal the answer to the question of which criminal will be exclude , so will the Minister take this opportunity to tell the House ? if he do not know the answer , will he commit to publish it by the end of the day ? lastly , can he confirm to the House that anyone in breach of a restraining order will be ineligible for a fix - term recall , because anything else would be an insult to the victim ? since take office , we have deport over 1 , 800 foreign national offender in custody , secure their early removal from our prison — 15 % high than in the previous 12 month . we have just announce 110 , 000 court sitting day , which be the high level for a very long time . to answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s specific question , we will exclude anyone serve more than four year in prison ; all those convict of a terrorist or national security crime ; and those who be subject to high level of risk management by multiple agency where the police and the Prison and Probation Service work together , which include certain sexual and violent offender , include many domestic abuser . if there be ongoing concern about the risk pose by an offender who be due to be release after the 28 - day period , frontline worker can apply additional licence condition to manage that . if further information relate to an offender ' s risk be receive after they have be recall , mean that they be no long consider suitable for fix - term recall , they may be detain for long on a standard recall , if that be assess as necessary by the HMPPS public protection team . we know how important it be that victim be keep inform . all those eligible for the victim contact scheme will be notify about an offender ' s release and will have the opportunity to make representation about victim - relate licence condition . although there be certain exclusion for serious offender , change recall for fix - term offender be necessary . it would be even bad to run out of space , which at this stage would mean the manage breakdown of the criminal justice system . the Lord Chancellor say rightly that that would be unconscionable . no Government should leave that challenge as a legacy to their successor , as the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government do . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . we should never forget that the crisis in our prison that the current Lord Chancellor be seek to resolve be create over 14 year by the irresponsible mismanagement of the previous Government . although today ' s announcement make sense in the short term , subject to safeguard , we must consider the whole way in which recall have develop , from 100 case 30 year ago to more than 13 , 000 today — over 15 % of the prison population — with less than 30 % of recall be for further offence . will the Government consider the way in which recall operate ? without the freeing up of space in prison , rehabilitation be impossible , overcrowd reach ridiculous level and we run out of space altogether . my hon . friend be right : the recall population have double in just seven year and we need to address that . the independent sentencing review will report shortly , and I hope that there will be recommendation to which we can respond in that report . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . there be no doubt that the Conservatives plunge our prison into crisis . [ interruption . ] they chunter from a sedentary position , but what else would they call it ? it be clear that the Government have fail to step up and tackle the sheer scale of the problem . across the country , victim and survivor be worried about what this will mean for they . if there be a specific domestic abuse offence , dangerous offender could be exclude from early release , but the Government have take no action at all since the Liberal Democrats raise that solution with they last autumn . will the Minister finally commit to give victim and survivor the protection that they deserve by create new domestic abuse aggravate offence , and will he go far to protect our community by introduce a clear plan to reduce reoffende , which be the only way to solve prison crowding once and for all ? if the Minister will not listen to I , will he listen to the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , who have just warn that life be now at risk ? the hon . Member will know that his colleague , the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , be work closely with the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , on get thing right for victim . that be something we take very seriously , and it need to be do properly , with victim , in order to get it right . I hope that the independent sentencing review report will contain thing that give we confidence about move forward and about the way we work with victim . the Conservatives appear to have forget quite a number of thing , and I think it might be a good time to remind they . former Justice Secretary Chris Grayling ' s disastrous partial privatisation of the Probation Service be overturn in 2019 after the number of serious offence — include rape and murder — commit by those on probation skyrocket . do the Minister agree that we be see the long tail of conservative failure , which overshadow everything that we must do now ? my hon . friend be right to remind the House of the chaos and turmoil that the Conservatives apply to our very important Probation Service when they be in government . we be put probation back together . we have already bring 1 , 000 new probation officer on board , and we be commit to a further 1 , 300 in the come year . Mr Speaker , to pick up on your statement , for which I think the whole House will be grateful , I be sure that my Committee will take up your clear urge for we to look at the issue with regard to the ministerial code . I know the Minister will agree that domestic abuse can not be an issue to which lip service be pay in this House and then policy seem to neglect . I make no apology for return to the view of the Domestic Abuse Commissioner for England and Wales , who issue a severe warning to the Lord Chancellor yesterday , comment : " I can not stress the lack of consideration for victim ' safety and how many life be be put in danger because of this propose change . " why do the Minister think the commissioner , with all her expertise and knowledge , have arrive at that conclusion ? we have great respect for the Victims ' Commissioner . what would be let down victim be if we allow the prison system to get to a place where we can not lock prisoner up — that would be unconscionable . that be why it be important that we have take these step . I remind the hon . member that we be exclude those prisoner who pose the most risk and be manage under MAPPA — multi - agency public protection arrangement — level 2 and 3 . that mean various agency work together . the exclusion also include all those convict of terrorist and national security crime . proper action can be take where agency identify risk to move from a fix - term recall to a standard recall . will the Minister tell I whether I be correct that when we enter office , there be few than 100 space leave in our prison — a terrible failure from the conservative party ? do he agree that instead of empty word and false promise to build prison , this Government be get on with the job ? my hon . friend be quite right . we face a real emergency when we come into office . it be unconscionable that any Government would do that to an incoming government . the previous Labour Government add 28 , 000 prison place in 13 year . in their 14 year , the Conservative Government manage to add 500 . in 10 month we have already deliver 2 , 400 prison place . have the Ministry of Justice conduct an impact assessment for this policy ? if so , will it release that to the House as soon as possible ? if not , can the Lord Chancellor confirm how she know what impact the policy will have on victim and the wide public ? we be always alert to the need to assess how policy apply to the wide public and victim . that be important . this situation be one of the most egregious example of state failure and a consequence of the bad chaos and incompetence of the last 14 year . the Lord Chancellor have be clear that , give current level of demand , we can not build our way out of this crisis . do the Minister agree that we have to be honest and do something different to ensure that we never again run out of prison place , include improve the exist prison estate and invest in the Probation Service , so that we can reduce reoffende and thereby reduce the pressure on prison place ? we be improve the prison estate and invest in probation , and there will also be action come forward from the independent sentencing review . I agree with everything my hon . Friend say . victim of domestic abuse , sexual abuse and stalking be now in fear , particularly those who live in rural area , where tagging do not always work . what particular measure will the Minister put in place to support victim in rural area who be distant from probation officer and the police ? anybody subject to a fix - term recall will be recall for 28 day , and if their risk be assess as great , they will be transfer to a standard recall . the reality be that anybody affect by this have already serve their time in prison ; they be on licence , be properly monitor and effectively manage by the Probation Service . the prison capacity crisis have be year in the making . do the Minister welcome the news that Wayland Prison in Norfolk have be grant planning permission just this week , by Breckland council ' s planning committee , for a 25 % increase in capacity , with 247 extra place ? that application alone represent 50 % of the total place create under the last government in 14 year . do he agree that this be further evidence of the Government deliver after year of inaction ? my hon . friend be exactly right to point to that planning application go forward . it be excellent news , and show that we be crack on with the job . although the Government should have volunteer to defend their position , I accept , have hold ministerial responsibility for the prison estate , that they have no good option at this point . do the Minister accept that the problem with what he be choose to do be that the return to prison for breach of important licence condition be there to be a deterrent , and if we reduce that deterrent , we run the risk of more people breach licence condition , which would make the overcrowding problem bad ? if he choose that path , will he consider increase the deterrent effect by ensure that , follow a 28 - day return to prison , there be other restriction on a prisoner ' s freedom , such as electronic tagging ? I certainly hope that all those thing will be look at by the independent sentencing review . the mandating of the 14 - day fix - term release be a measure take by the previous Government . we be extend that to 28 day for sentence of up to four year because of the situation that we face , to ensure that we do not run out of prison place in the interim . like I , many resident across Filton and Bradly Stoke be rightly appal last summer to discover the real situation leave behind by the conservative party . when it come to prison , do the Minister agree that this be an opportunity for the conservative party to apologise ? my hon . friend make a good point , and the House will have hear it . the Minister and the Secretary of State have often use the word " emergency " to describe the state of the prison population , and I have ask the Secretary of State how long it will take to deport all the foreign criminal clog up our jail . this be a moment for the Secretary of State to say , " yes , this be an emergency , " and to deport the lot of they , free up about 10 , 000 place , which would help overcome this crisis . we have deport more foreign national offender in 12 month than the last Government do in the previous 12 month , and we be continue to work hard with the Home Office to deport foreign national offender . we will never be able to do that on the scale necessary to address the challenge that we face in our prison at this time . on a recent visit to Featherstone prison near Wolverhampton , I come across several prisoner who have be recall , and who be wait up to a year to have their case progress . do the Minister agree that limit the recall sentence , make great use of technology to punish offender in the community , and make the Probation Service more effective will result in well rehabilitation of prisoner , reduce reoffende , and ease the prison overcrowding cause by the previous Government ? my hon . friend point out the action that we must take to address the challenge that we face in the system , and to make the system work well for victim and protect the public . many domestic abuser will , give their nature , welcome the opportunity to give another twist of the knife at the cost of a mere 28 day . have the Minister just present they with a practical opportunity ? I have carefully go through the exclusion from this measure , and emphasise the importance of good professional body continue to apply proper risk assessment . when risk assessment say that a standard recall be more appropriate than a fix - term recall , that will happen . it be a bit rich for Conservative Members to be critical when they leave the criminal justice system in total meltdown . do my hon . friend agree that tagging be an important resource for protect the public from criminal ? perhaps he see the Channel 4 programme " Dispatches " , which show that the contract give to Serco by the conservative party be totally and utterly fail . do he have confidence in Serco to deliver that contract , and if not , will he remove it , and bring that service back under public control ? it be clear that tag technology have huge potential . a recent study have show a 20 % reduction in reoffende by offender wear curfew tag , but my hon . friend be right to draw attention to concern about the contract . Serco ' s performance be improve , but it be still not acceptable . the reporting in the " Dispatches " programme be from last year , when we know that there be serious issue , and we issue financial penalty to Serco , which be give the contract by the previous Government . if Serco ' s performance drop again , all option will remain on the table . this announcement be a further illustration of why this House should legislate to remove all impediment to the deportation of foreign national offender . in his reply to the shadow Justice Secretary , the Minister say that victim who be affect by this policy should be keep inform about release , yet he refuse to say whether the Department have conduct an impact assessment . what new information be he today willing to commit to publishing each month , so that victim be indeed keep inform ? victim absolutely need to be keep inform , and we continue to work with victim ' group and the Victims ' commissioner to ensure that they be . in separate case , two family in my constituency lose love one when they be murder by offender who be out on remand but should never have be . will the Minister meet I and , if they wish , both family , so that they can have some assurance that lesson have be learn from these case , and so that other family be not place in the same horrendous situation ? I be very sorry to hear about the case mention by my hon . friend . I be happy to meet he to take the matter far . the Victims ' Commissioner have warn that free prisoner early who have be show to pose a reoffende risk to the public will " place victim and the wide public at an unnecessary risk of harm . " the Domestic Abuse Commissioner have say that it be " simply unacceptable " . what discussion do the Government have with those two commissioner before make the announcement ? we speak to the Victims ' commissioner regularly ; the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , be speak to they later today . the Justice Secretary could have choose to deport more of the thousand of offender in our jail , maxe out court sitting day , repurposed building or procure temporary facility to hold offender . why have she instead choose to release serious offender , include domestic abuser , from jail early , with no consideration for the victim ? this be not about release people from prison early . yes , it be . no , it be not . this be about people who have already serve their sentence in prison ; they be out in the community . if they breach a condition of their licence , they be return to prison . the hon . Gentleman might as well ask why the Government he support do not take any of the measure that he mention . our Government inherit the mess that his government leave we , and we be take decision to address the unconscionable threat of have a prison system that be not able to lock up dangerous people . minister seem to have be deliberately vague about the number of domestic abuse offender who will be eligible for release , and the breadth of their offence . give how big the announcement be , the Government and the Department will have do a lot of work look at who will be eligible . will the Minister set out to the House the exact number of domestic abuse offender who will be eligible for this scheme ? I hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , and I will write to he . the first duty of government be to keep the public safe . I recently meet a constituent whose convict ex - husband be serve a prison sentence , have rape she twice . despite be in prison , he continue to have indirect access to their child . my constituent think that be wrong , and I agree . do the Minister agree that convict violent and sexual offender should serve maximum possible custodial sentence , and lose parental access right ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the Victims and Courts Bill be about to go through Parliament , and that be the sort of issue that we will look at during the Bill ' s passage . one of the reason why our prison be so full be that we have more than 10 , 000 foreign national in they . what step be the Minister take to deport they ? I say gently that we have deport more foreign national in the first year on our watch than the previous Government do in the year on their watch . he be right that we have to roll up our sleeve and continue to get on with the job . the Minister have be slightly equivocal in answer this question , which I have ask on two previous occasion ; third time lucky ! prior to announce this policy change yesterday , do the Government meet and consult the Domestic Abuse Commissioner about it — yes or no ? the commissioner have be speak to by the team . to be clear , the impact assessment will be publish when we come to consider the statutory instrument . the new measure announce by the Justice Secretary suggest that the Government have learn nothing from the furore and loss of public confidence that follow last year ' s early release debacle . that same Justice Secretary , along with the Victims Minister , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , who be in her place , sign the protest letter that lead to the convict child rapist Fabian Henry be remove from a deportation flight . the Prime Minister sign that letter , too . why do the Justice Secretary and her Ministers appear to have such scant regard for the impact that their management of prison release will have on the victim of crime ? when will she implement measure that act as a deterrent to recidivism , rather than as a minor inconvenience to the continuation of a criminal career ? we be committed to get this right . the early release scheme that the previous Government put in place do not have the same exception as our early release scheme do for the sort of offender that the hon . Gentleman draw attention to , but these matter be very difficult . the most important thing be ensure that we have a criminal justice system that work . we need to be able to lock up dangerous people , and those who do really bad thing . when we come into government , the situation be that we might not be able to maintain that ability . we have have to take action that we would far rather not take in order to keep the system go . the Minister be a very decent person , and he and I have be friend for many year , but I must ask this question , which I hope I can put in the way that I wish to . I really struggle to understand the rationale behind allow a criminal to consider their option and work out whether what they intend to do be worth an additional 28 day in jail , or allow a person to weigh up whether break a restraining or non - molestation order be worth a month in prison . criminal need to fear that if they break the law again , it will be bad for they . how do the Minister and the Department think that the policy will disincentivise repeat offend ? I have make clear the exception that apply to this tight , fix - term recall alteration . the management of people in the community will be risk - assess , as always . if the view be that a different approach need to be take , it will be take . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Act 2025 Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Act 2025 Great British Energy Act 2025 . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the future business ? I shall . the business for the week commence 19 May include : Monday 19 May — second reading of the Mental Health Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 20 May — second reading of the Victims and Courts Bill . Wednesday 21 May — Opposition day ( 8th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce , follow by a motion to approve a statutory instrument relate to terrorism . Thursday 22 May — if necessary , consideration of Lords amendment , follow by a general debate on access to NHS dentistry , follow by a general debate on dementia care . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the Whitsun recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 22 May and return on Monday 2 June . the provisional business for the week commence 2 June will include : Monday 2 June — Second reading of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill [ Lords ] . I thank the Leader of the House for her remark . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , this week see the tragic and untimely death of Sir Roy Stone . we have a brief moment of recognition of he early in the week , but I be keenly aware that many labour colleague be not in the House at the time of his flourishing . as such , I want to mention in the Chamber today how much we all respect he , and give the Leader of the House the chance to say something about he if she wish . more widely , we have have a week of mixed economic , with growth slightly up , weak wage growth , a spike in unemployment — as everyone have predict in the case of national insurance — and fiscal strain highlight just today by a former Treasury civil servant . we have also have an immigration policy launch with echo of Enoch Powell , and a Prime Minister who appear not to know the difference between capital and current spending in relation to hospice that be seek to support people day to day across this country — people who be literally at death ' s door . I would have move on from the politic of the week at this point in my remark , but for the extraordinary series of intervention by Mr Speaker only a few minute ago on the Government ' s failure to announce their policy in the House . Mr Speaker rightly seek — and be eventually give — an apology by the Minister , the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , for their late failure , but the irony be absolutely extraordinary . that announcement come just hour after the Leader of the House have to be drag to this Chamber to answer question on this very topic . she fail to apologise to this House yesterday ; I wonder whether she will take the opportunity to do so today . whether she do or not , I hope that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as well as Mr Speaker and all the Deputy Speakers , will insist on maintain the primacy of our parliamentary democracy and demand that government be hold to account . today , I come to the Chamber not to ask about a particular item of policy , but to offer a positive policy idea ; not to focus on what may be pass from day to day in the Government ' s policy , but to focus on the long term and to celebrate . I do so in relation to a personal interest of mine — indeed , a mini - obsession , as the House probably know — which be growth , development and innovation in high education . this week , we see the graduation of the first student at our new university in Hereford , the New Model Institute for Technology and Engineering . it be the first greenfield university in this country for 40 year , a specialist , technical engineering university teaching student of every age and background — especially those from less well - off family — in a very intensive and immersive way . it teach they the hand - on skill of an apprenticeship , but also the rigour of a master ' s degree . its student work in team , build work habit and work closely with partner company in defence , security , energy , construction , food and agriculture . I mention that university now because it highlight what could be consider a lack of ambition in the way that we as a country have think about high education over the past 50 year , or possibly even long . NMITE be an institution that be not just focus on marginal educational gain , but on transformational improvement . it aim to take a person — male or female , young or old — who might never have think of go to university at all and help they to find their passion , head , hand and heart , and take they as far as they can go . it aim to reinvent not just what student learn , but how they learn , with theory and practice tie together in real - world challenge , forge professional through immersive and intensive work with a sense of mission and purpose . it aim to build the right habit and prepare those student , not just for the world of work , but for a world of work that be constantly change . above all , the university seek to keep the benefit of be small in size — something we have lose in so much of high education — with agility , accountability , personal engagement , teamwork and friendship and a sense of belong and community , so that our student grow as morally serious human being who can readily and resiliently deal with complexity and uncertainty , and who be deeply aware of the power and responsibility that come with be an engineer . do it work ? these student be study for a master in engineering , certify independently as be of very high quality . the first cohort be go into job at a rate of almost 100 % in company such as Balfour Beatty , Kier , Cadbury , BAE , AWE , Safran and local company at an average salary of £ 34 , 000 , draw national need and local need together . it be the small modular reactor of british high education . I raise this example because I want to invite the Government and Members from across the House to consider whether we could not do it elsewhere . there be at least 50 small city and large town in this country that lack high education and high economic growth . there be a huge need for specialist science , technology , engineering and mathematic skill . we have vast amount of talent deprive of opportunity , and this can be part of the solution . I do not know whether any colleague would like to be involve , but each could be , in their own area and their constituency , lead on the creation not just of a campus , but of a new university design for local people , local business and national economic opportunity . that be the opportunity . I invite the House and the Government to consider it . I will take this opportunity to also pay tribute to Sir Roy Stone , the former principal private secretary to the Government Chief Whip . he be very much know as the " usual channel " , and I think he embody that with distinction . I do not know he personally , but I know of his reputation and of the love and esteem in which he be hold by many member across the House . we send our thought to his family and friend again at this time . the thought of many across the House will also be with those live in Gaza . we see the intolerable suffering , death and starvation on our screen most evening , and it must stop now . food be not reach starve people , airstrike be kill civilian and hostage be still be hold . I know that this whole House want to see a change of course , meaningful aid get in , an urgent ceasefire and a path to a durable peace . I also hear Mr Speaker ' s statement this morning about the government give statement to this House in a timely fashion , and I absolutely hear what he say . as I say yesterday in the House , I will ensure that that message be relay , as I do on many occasion , to our Cabinet colleague . I just remind the House that the Lord Chancellor lay a long write ministerial statement yesterday afternoon , as do the Home Secretary early in the week , but we can and we must do well . the right hon . Gentleman , as I say yesterday in the House , should remember that we have give 146 oral statement in just 133 sitting day , and that far outstrip what happen under his government when , frankly , they disrespect Parliament time after time . I will not be take any lecture from he on that . I hear what the right hon . Gentleman say about the new technical university in his constituency in Herefordshire . it sound like an important and good innovation to provide technical education and engineering pathway , particularly for people from certain background who might not otherwise access such education . my eld son be currently study engineering at one of the university that I represent — Manchester Metropolitan University — and I hope he and many other have a pathway into work . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that when high education join much more closely with the place of work and the skill that be need for the job of the future , that be when we get much more bang for our buck , and our young people have the opportunity in life that they need . I notice that the right hon . Gentleman do just about mention the economy again this week . he do not seem to want to welcome the good news on growth figure out this morning , and he do not mention the interest rate cut last week either . nor do he mention the 200 job that we have create since the election . I do not know if he notice what the former Chancellor , George Osborne , say last week about the stance of the Conservatives under their current leader : that they be more interested in culture war than in have a serious economic plan . he be right , isn ' t he ? the right hon . Gentleman talk about get figure wrong , but what a way for the Leader of the Opposition to get her figure wrong during Prime Minister ' s question yesterday — by a factor of 100 . I do not know if the right hon . Gentleman want to set the record straight on that . she also do not seem to grasp the importance and value of the trade deal that we have strike in the last week or so , and of the billion of pound that they will bring into the economy . thankfully , though , there be still a few true conservative on the Back Benches who really understand the core conservative idea of free trade . his former Deputy Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) , welcome those trade deal . his former Brexit Secretary , the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , welcome they too . even Kwasi Kwarteng , the former Chancellor , say that the US - UK deal be a success . George Osborne be right , isn ' t he ? the Conservatives have no idea where they stand on the economy , and they have no plan . we have a plan for growth , a plan to improve living standard and a plan to put money back in people ' s pocket , and people be start to see the fruit of that today . Astwood Bank be a beautiful village in my constituency of Redditch and the village . however , despite its aesthetic beauty , it be the people of Astwood Bank who I be most proud of . in the Gallery today be a group represent Astwood Bank ' s Royal British Legion , which have be responsible for raise ten of thousand of pound for our veteran and service personnel . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Astwood Bank ' s RBL , include officer , veteran , school governor and our local reverend , for its public service and commitment to the community ? absolutely . I join my hon . friend in welcome those from Astwood Bank ' s Royal British Legion to Parliament today . I be sure the whole House be grateful for the work that they have do , for the thousand of pound that they have raise , and for all the service that they have give over many year . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I echo the Leader of the House ' s word about the intolerable and increasingly unsurvivable situation in Gaza . I urge the Government to do everything in their power to help remedy the situation . my Chelmsford constituent , who be self - employ , regularly have to deal with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . he recently write to I about the unacceptable waiting time on HMRC ' s customer service helpline . in his experience , this issue have be go on for year but have recently grow considerably bad . he tell I that he sometimes have to wait for up to 40 minute before give up and hang up . it be all very well have service online , but if they be not fully accessible , people will still need an HMRC helpline that be responsive . sadly , that be not the case . the unacceptable level of customer service have be the subject of cross - party criticism in this House many time over the year . this year , the Public Accounts Committee agree that the situation have indeed get bad . it find that 44 , 000 hmrc customer be cut off while wait more than 70 minute to reach an adviser — more than six time the figure for the whole of the 2022 - 23 financial year . I be sure the whole House will agree that spend time on the phone while wait to resolve tax issue be not something that many of we or our constituent particularly enjoy do , and it do not do anything to help productivity . business need to spend their time sell their good and service and generate tax receipt for the Treasury , not languish on the end of a phone . will the Leader of the House ask for a statement to be make about when we can expect to see improvement ? first of all , as I say in my opening remark , the situation in Gaza be truly intolerable and awful to see . the hon . Lady raise what be , unfortunately , an all too familiar issue that many of our business and constituent face when try to contact HMRC and other service . it be simply not good enough that people have to wait as long as she describe , which be incredibly frustrating for they . as she say , it have a real impact on the time that they could otherwise spend on their business and on do what they need to do . she may be aware that , later this year , HMRC will publish a transformation road map to ensure that its service significantly improve , particularly at the customer end . I will make sure that a statement be give about that plan when it be ready , and that she get an update from the Minister in the meantime . like many hon . member across the House , I have leaseholder in property in Newport East manage by FirstPort who have see their service charge dramatically increase — in one case , a constituent report , by 262 % since 2020 — despite get very little in return . can we please have an update on the Government ' s timeline for the introduction of great protection for leaseholder and strengthen the regulation of manage agent ? this issue be raise with I regularly at business question , and by my own constituent , as I represent many leaseholder across Manchester Central . the situation my hon . friend describe be all too familiar , and I be sorry to hear what FirstPort be do in her constituency . she will know that this Government have real ambition for leasehold reform . we want to end the feudal system of leasehold and bring forward a system of commonhold . that be why we have publish the White Paper , and we have also lay regulation to make it easy for leaseholder to get the right to manage . later this year , we will bring forward a draft leasehold reform Bill , which will be a comprehensive package to change the system for good . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , in the Chamber next week there will be a statement from the Business and Trade Committee . when we come back after the Whitsun recess , if we be grant the time , on 5 June there will be a debate on high street banking closure and banking hub , follow by a debate on safety regulation in the construction and planning of battery energy storage site . if we be give the time , on 12 June there will be a debate on the distribution of special educational need and disability funding , follow by a debate on the fifth anniversary of the covid - 19 pandemic . in Westminster Hall next week , on Tuesday there will be a debate on pension for people live overseas , and on Thursday there will be a full three - hour debate on the UK - EU summit result . when we come back , on Tuesday 3 June there will be a debate on the power of the Groceries Code Adjudicator , and on Thursday 5 June there will be a debate on the police presence on high street , follow by a debate on the contribution of math to the UK . on Tuesday 10 June there will be a debate on the US aid funding pause and the impact on UK international development , and on Thursday 12 June there will be a debate on the legal recognition of humanist marriage , follow by a debate on long - term condition . today be the last day for people to respond to the consultation by the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government on my private Member ' s Bill , which be give Royal Assent in 2023 , on support housing exempt accommodation . unfortunately , over the last two year rogue landlord have continue to exploit vulnerable people , but I be delighted that the Government have take up the regulation we have prepare before the general election . I urge individual who wish to respond to the consultation to do so without delay . will the Secretary of State make a statement after Whitsun on what action the Government will take , how many response have be receive and when we can expect the regulation to be bring into force , so that vulnerable tenant do not continue to be exploit ? first , I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for announce the important debate it have come up . in particular , the issue of banking hub get raise with I regularly in these session , and anyone with a prepared question about that might take note of the fact that there be a forthcoming debate . the issue of planning application for battery storage facility be one that the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) also regularly raise in these session , so I be sure she will be speak in that ; in fact , it be probably her debate . I also thank the hon . gentleman for his Supported Housing ( Regulatory Oversight ) Act 2023 — an important Act that he push through Parliament — on the very important issue of tackle rogue landlord who be take advantage of very vulnerable people . I know this be a matter of interest to many people across this House , and I will get in touch with the Minister about make a statement on its implementation . People in my area be totally brasse off with Yorkshire Water , which have fail , repeatedly , to deliver clean water to house in Upton . it have deliver 5 , 000 hour of sewage into our local river and stream last year , and today we learn that people be have to boil water in the north of Yorkshire . in the meantime , it be push up price and have pocket over £ 1 billion of profit since covid . can we have a debate on Yorkshire Water ' s lamentable progress on deliver clean water ? can we have an opportunity to see whether or not we think privatisation be a fail experiment ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I be sure he will agree that the previous Conservative Government let water company profit from fill our waterway and river with sewage and , frankly , rubbish at time . we be take action . we have already pass the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , which now hold water boss criminally liable for such discharge , and we have secure over £ 100 billion of private sector investment to upgrade and build our water infrastructure . there be more to be do , which be why we have the commission , which publish recently . further legislation will come forward in due course to look at the broad issue of water reform and water governance . rise — I commend the Leader of the House for her very full answer , but there be many member stand and to get everyone in we will need very short question and short answer , please . as short as possible , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Leader of the House will know that I have raise the issue of crossbow in this Chamber before . they be murderous device in the wrong hand . in response , the Government have helpfully table amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill , yet I have still receive no information , despite the Prime Minister ' s promise that I would , about the response to the consultation . it be now well over a year old , yet we have hear nothing . may we have a statement to the House on the Government ' s response to the consultation on crossbow ownership and sale as soon as possible please ? I will ensure the right hon . Gentleman get an update on the consultation . he be right to say that we bring in amendment in the Committee stage of the Crime and Policing Bill . the Bill will come back after recess for its remain stage , when some of these issue can be discuss . in the meantime , I will ensure he get a full response on the consultation . a few week ago , I be pleased to welcome three educational group to Parliament : Derwentside college in Consett , St Joseph ' s primary school in Blaydon , and St Mary ' s primary school in Blackhill . I congratulate all of they , pupil and staff , who be a real credit to their school and college , and to our Blaydon and Consett constituency . I also thank our magnificent education and engagement team here in Parliament . may we have a debate in Government time on what more we can do to give young people an understanding of our democracy and how they can take part in it ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in commend the great work that the education team here in Parliament do , and I be glad to hear that the school and college from her constituency have such a great experience . education about citizenship and democracy be a vital part of what people be do in school and need to continue do . a number of week ago , I mention the inaugural Harrogate town council election . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate all those who be elect ? may we have a debate in Government time on local government reorganisation ? Harrogate borough council use to receive 0 . 5 % of profit from Harrogate Spring Water , but that have now be take away by North Yorkshire council . we want they to go back to the new Harrogate town council to ensure that local community do not miss out when we have the new super council that be not so super . the hon . Gentleman make a really good point . I be delighted to congratulate all those who be elect to Harrogate town council , even if many of they be not labour — I imagine they probably be not . we be bring forward the english devolution Bill , when many of those issue will be debate and discuss . there be a real keen interest in the Bill and the issue therein , so I will make sure he get a ministerial response . will my right hon . friend join I in commend the work and dedication of Mel Metcalfe and the entire Durham Pride team — support by the Queen of Durham , Tess Tickle and her Dragettes — in aim to make this year ' s event the big and great celebration of the LGBT + community in the county yet ? can we have a debate in Government time to ensure that the hard - win right secure by the LGBT + community , activist and campaigner be not erode by those who would prefer to see celebration like Pride consign to the history book ? I will absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate those who organise Durham Pride every year . I have a large Pride event in my constituency in Manchester , too . we be come towards Pride season — I think we do usually make time for a debate on the LGBT community ahead of Pride , but I will take her question into account . later today , the House will debate the subject of solar farm . I do not wish to pre - empt that debate , but the fact of the matter be that build solar farm on agricultural land be completely incompatible with the Government ' s propose policy on sustainable agriculture . could the Leader of the House have a quiet word with the Prime Minister in the privacy of the Cabinet Room and ask he to talk to the Energy and Agriculture Secretaries and bang some head together ? as the right hon . Gentleman say , we will be debate some of those issue later today . he be absolutely right that we need to strike a balance between meet our energy need , achieve energy security and get bill down — for which develop solar be absolutely key — while at the same time maintain our agricultural land and food security . I be sure we will be debate those issue later . as the MP for Crystal Palace , I ask the Leader of the House to join I in wish Crystal Palace football club good luck last month , and my constituent be leave feel " Glad all over " when her good wish help to secure they a thumping 3 - 0 win against Aston Villa in the FA cup semi - final . as a City fan , she may be less willing to wish the Eagles good luck for the final this weekend , but let I wish they good luck for Saturday . will she acknowledge that it be not only Palace fan who be get behind Oliver Glasner ' s underdog , but the whole country ? well . [ laughter . ] as the MP for Manchester city as well as be a Manchester City fan , I do not want to see Crystal Palace win on Saturday , but I do recognise that this be a huge step for they ; it be , I think , a long time since they have be in the FA cup final . I know that their supporter will be there loud and proud on Saturday , and that the whole of my hon . friend ' s constituency — and south London , I be sure — will be behind they . however , hopefully Man City will win . Julian House be a homelessness charity that have be operate in Bath for nearly 40 year . its lease be end next year , and , with no route to capital or long - term funding , it face closure . can we have a debate in Government time on how to end short - term funding cycle for local authority , which give they little choice but to retain charity on insecure , short - term contract , which be so devastating for our most vulnerable and at - risk people ? I be really sorry to hear about the homelessness charity in the hon . Lady ' s constituency and the challenge it be face . she be absolutely right : the short - term funding cycle we have see for local government be part of the challenge for charity like the one she mention . we be commit to three - year funding cycle for local government and have boost local government finance in every part of the country to help to deal with the situation she describe . first , I welcome the Leader of the House ' s remark on the intolerable situation in Gaza and her commitment to ensure that our government do everything they can to bring about a swift conclusion to this situation . what Israel be do to blockade what be necessary to sustain life offend every principle of international humanitarian law — the same law that our own armed force have to uphold when defend we . alongside arm sale , one of the big issue be the continuation of RAF overflight from RAF Akrotiri , a base from which I once serve . although I have no doubt that our people be serve honourably and in line with assessment of international law , further clarity be require on the purpose and extent of UK military co - operation . we must be open and transparent and assure our constituent that nothing be be do to aid Israel ' s disgraceful act against the people of Gaza . what can my right hon . friend , alongside our colleague in the Ministry of Defence , do to address this matter ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and reiterate what I say early , which be that the situation in Gaza be intolerable and need to end . we want a return to a ceasefire , negotiation to stop the bloodshed and the killing of innocent civilian , and the hostage to be free . as far away as this may feel from the situation that we be in , a long - term two - state solution must be find as well . he will know that on the issue of arm export we have suspend export licence to Israel for anything that could be use in the military operation in Gaza . in January 2024 , my constituent , Mr Michael Moyse , write to the Treasury about his business , and the Royal Mail have confirm that his letter be sign for . as he do not receive a reply , he come to my surgery in January this year seek assistance . have investigate the matter , I write to official in the Treasury on 18 March request that they reply to Mr Moyse . they do not do so . I write again to the Treasury on 7 May . my constituent have still not receive a reply . will the Leader of the House have a word with the Chancellor and ask the Treasury to reply to my constituent ? I be sorry to hear that the hon . Member and his constituent have not receive a reply to their correspondence . if he would supply I with the detail of that correspondence at the end of this session , I will ensure that he get a speedy reply . Dinnington village in my constituency recently experience the sudden and unexpected closure of its post office . we all know how important postal service be for provide banking service , opportunity to pay bill and identity service . I have set up a petition and 200 resident have sign it already . I have also be in touch with the Post Office . can we have a debate in Government time about the importance of post office service to community such as mine ? I be sorry to hear about the closure of the post office in my hon . friend ' s constituency . this matter get raise with I a lot in business question , and , as I have say many time before , it be critical that Members of Parliament stand up for these service and make it clear to the Post Office that these closure be not acceptable to our constituent . I will ensure that she get an update , and that the House be continually update on these matter . I be sure that we would all agree that the wellbeing of our university be vital to the economic wellbeing of this country . as the Member for Edinburgh West , I know that the wellbeing of our four university in Edinburgh be vital not just to the economy , but to the livelihood of many of my constituent . international student , in turn , be vital to the wellbeing of those university . university Scotland say that , under the immigration measure propose this week by the Government , the levy could cost university in Scotland £ 85 million a year . there be a great deal of concern about this , so will the Leader of the House arrange for I to have a meeting with the relevant Minister to see how we can address this issue and perhaps reassure our university sector ? international student play an important role in our country . they bring with they skill and make a great contribution . I think that be why Universities UK say this week that our measure will keep we very competitive in these area , but I take on board what the hon . Member be say . we have education question come up soon , but I will ensure that the Minister get back to she on these matter . Sunday mark National Fishing Remembrance Day . fisherman in our coastal town and village , include Looe and Polperro , play a vital role in food security and national security . I pay tribute to the previous member for South East Cornwall and to her late husband who lose his life to the sea . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on support for a sustainable fishing industry , particularly for small , local fleet ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in pay respect to the former Member . it be National Fishing Remembrance Day last week , and I be sure the whole House will join I in pay tribute to those who contribute to our economy and the fishing way of life in constituency such as my hon . friend ' s . the topic of fishing and fishing community always raise lot of interest in the House , so I be sure that if she want to apply for a debate on it , she would get a lot of interest . the Leader of the House have previously be very helpful in facilitate ministerial engagement on the switch - off of the radio teleswitch service . however , the switch - off be due to take place at the end of June , which be only week away , and report suggest that over 100 , 000 people in Scotland still have not have a new meter instal . that carry the threat of they lose hot water and heating at the end of June . I have constituent , such as Ian Dalling of Peebles , who have repeatedly have appointment for a changeover cancel , which I think be unacceptable . will the Leader of the House ensure that a statement be bring forward to tell we exactly what be happen with the switch - off and to assure we that nobody will be leave without heating or hot water ? I thank the right hon . member for raise this important matter with I again ; he be very diligent on behalf of his constituent . he be right that the radio teleswitch replacement programme have be far too slow . we have be try to speed it up , but what he describe be simply not good enough , and he be right to say that it be unacceptable . we need supplier to meet their obligation in order to ensure that none of his constituent be leave without hot water or heating . I will ensure that he get a ministerial response , and I will ask for the whole House to be give an update . as a proud stokey , I can not wait to celebrate our city centenary on 5 June alongside my fellow resident . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Councillor Jane Ashworth OBE , leader of Stoke - on - Trent City council , and our fantastic Lord Mayor Lyn Sharpe on their exceptional leadership in deliver a truly ambitious and inclusive programme of activity and event to mark this historic year ? I absolutely join my hon . friend , the proud Stokey that he be , in congratulate Stoke - on - Trent on its centenary , and I too thank Jane Ashworth and Lyn Sharpe for their great leadership . I love visit Stoke , and I look forward to the city flourish over its next hundred year . there have be real interest in Westminster Hall debate on maternity service and the recently announce closure of the maternity service and special baby care unit at yeovil hospital . will the Leader of the House commit to time in the Chamber to debate the failure to implement in full the ockenden recommendation that would see the improved maternity care we need across the UK ? I congratulate the hon . Lady on raise these matter in Westminster Hall and elsewhere ; they be important issue . I be sure that be she to apply for a Backbench Business debate on those matter , she would get a lot of support . [ interruption . ] ah , the hon . Lady be a member of the Backbench Business Committee , so she can not apply . perhaps she could encourage member who be listen to her plea to ask for a debate . she raise important matter which I know be very important to the Health Secretary . he be keen to keep the House update , and I will ensure that the hon . Lady be keep update as well . it be fantastic to attend Primary Engineer event in Derby early this month , support by the amazing Jemma Smalls and the wide Rail Forum . pupil from local school showcase model train that they have design and make themselves . we be proud in Derby of our rail heritage , and we know that through invest in our young people we can ensure that there be a bright future ahead . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the outstanding creativity , teamwork and problem solve that the young people show ? the rail forum initiative in my hon . friend ' s constituency sound wonderful . I be thrilled that the Government be commit to headquarter Great British Rail in Derby . hopefully , its rail history will very much be a part of its rail future and young people in his constituency will be able to have a great career in rail engineering . I join the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House in their tribute to Sir Roy Stone , far to those in the House on Tuesday . he be the most exceptional civil servant and his loss be deeply feel by many . can we have a debate in Government time on any legislative and wide change need to deliver value for money in the restoration and renewal programme , particularly give government statement on wide pressure on the public finance and the fact that so many member of the House be newly elect last July and therefore have not have an opportunity to give their view and shape the programme ? I join the right hon . member in pay tribute to the exceptional service of Sir Roy Stone . I know that he work with Sir Roy , as do many other across the House ; he sound like the most tremendous person to have work with . the right hon . member raise the really important issue of the restoration and renewal project for the House of Commons . he and I both sit on the House of Commons Commission , where we discuss these issue . it be vital that the House have its say on what that project will entail , that we get value for money and that people can see what that money be be spend on — some of the necessary reservicing work that we must see at some point . we will have plenty of time to debate those issue on the Floor of the House . last week , his Majesty the King be pleased to approve the appointment of the new Bishop of Carlisle , Rob Saner - Haigh . his appointment after two year act in the role have be widely welcome across the diocese . may I invite the Leader of the House to welcome the appointment ? would she make time for a debate on the important work our faith leader do in all our community ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the Bishop of Carlisle on his recent appointment . I know that these matter be of interest to the House but , because they fall outside Government business , they often struggle to get debate time , as I discuss recently with the Second Church Estates Commissioner , my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) . hopefully , through the Modernisation Committee and other work we be do , we can find more time to debate such important matter . like the Leader of the House , I be delighted that we will be have a debate on battery energy storage system , but that be not my question for today . it will come as no surprise that I want to press she again on Aldridge train station . at Transport question , I ask the Secretary of State a question , and she say that she would come back to I with an update and speak to Mayor Parker . money have be take away from the project , and I be struggle to get a response from the Mayor of the West Midlands to correspondence from month ago . could the Leader of the House perhaps assist in that or offer we a debate in Government time on the importance of rail connectivity not just to my constituency but around the west midland , particularly give that we await the review on the west midland rail hub ? I congratulate the right hon . Lady on her persistence in raise the same issue twice in one morning . she be right to do so , because access to train station and investment in station be a critical issue to our constituent . I hope that the Secretary of State will come back to she ; I will chase that . I think there would be a lot of interest in a broad debate on access to train station and rail infrastructure in the west midland and beyond . I be concerned that this week FedEx announce that it be plan to close its depot in Newcastle - under - Lyme . that be bad news for hundred of worker in my constituency and feel very much like a case of profit over people . it stand in stark contrast to the Government ' s commitment to our industrial heartland . let we be clear : the site be strategically place and should prosper . with that in mind , will the Leader of the House join I in urge FedEx to think again and work with I to explore alternative that will protect my constituent ' job and livelihood ? I be really sorry to hear about the propose closure of the FedEx depot in my hon . friend ' s constituency . he be right as a constituency MP to raise that with I on the Floor of the House . obviously , these be matter for FedEx , but we want to see more investment in job and opportunity in his constituency . I will ensure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister . West Yorkshire police recently announce , to much fanfare , that area such as Keighley and Ilkley would receive extra officer as part of a new neighbourhood police team strategy . what seem like a good and positive announcement hide the fact that the so - call new officer have be second from Operation Steerside — a critical team of officer that tackle vehicle crime , which will now be disband , with a negative impact on my constituent . may we have a debate on that important issue in Government time ? do the Leader of the House agree that if officer number be an issue for West Yorkshire police , the force should not continue with discriminatory hiring practice that deter white recruit from apply ? we be committed to introduce more neighbourhood policing role . as part of our policing guarantee , we be go to introduce an additional 13 , 000 neighbourhood policing role by 2029 . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , like mine , will want to see those neighbourhood police officer in his constituency , on the street , tackle crime in our community and make sure that our street be safe . defibrillator be a vital community resource ; they save life and provide reassurance to local resident and visitor . in my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , Paul Kimberley have be lead the St Agnes parish - wide defibrillator network , which now include 50 different defibrillator across the area . thank to that initiative , St Agnes now rank in the top 2 % nationally for defibrillator coverage . will the Leader of the House congratulate Paul for his work ? do she also agree that we need a more informed and strategic approach to defibrillator provision , and will she allocate time to support and debate that initiative ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Paul Kimberley on get more defibrillator to Camborne and Redruth . we recognise the importance that they play ; improve access to they be critical . we have top up fund to do that , but my hon . friend be right that we need to go far and have a more strategic approach . question and answer will have to be much short so we can get more colleague in . I be sure that the Leader of the House , like I , love a farm shop . johnson of Old Hurst in my constituency be last week declare the good farm shop and delicatessen in Cambridgeshire at the Muddy Stilettos award for independent business . the shop offer high - quality , home - grow british produce , and I know from personal experience how busy it be and how difficult it be to get a table in the tearoom there . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Andy and Tracey , and wish they well for the good of the good national final next month , where they will be in contention to become the good farm shop and delicatessen in the country — and surely the only one with a lion enclosure ? I join the hon . gentleman in congratulate Andy and Tracey on their award - win farm shop , which sound fantastic . maybe next time the hon . Member can offer I an invitation and I might join he . Football Families for Justice be a voluntary organisation that campaign on behalf of ex - professional footballer who have die or be suffer from neurodegenerative disease incur by head football . footballer suffer such disease at four to five time the national average . the FFJ have try to engage the football industry to persuade it to accept some responsibility for the problem , but to no avail . will the Leader of the House advise on whether the Government would consider amendment to the Football Governance Bill that would encourage the industry to do so ? I join my hon . friend in thank the FFJ for all its work on this important matter , which she be right to raise . we have debate the Bill on Second Reading . my hon . friend might want to see if she can join the Public Bill Committee , which will provide a good opportunity to debate further action . the scottish fire and rescue service be face damaging cut thank to underfunding by the SNP Government in Edinburgh . last week , I visit Hawick fire station , where I hear about the propose cut , include change to the retain service and a reduction in the 24 / 7 coverage to office hour . such proposal could put life at risk , so may we have a debate on the importance of adequate funding for our fire and rescue service ? also , do the Leader of the House agree that the SNP cut be completely reckless ? the hon . Gentleman be a fantastic campaigner for service in his constituency . I be sorry to hear that the SNP Government be propose to cut the scottish fire and rescue service . they have have a very good settlement in the Budget recently , so there really be no excuse . I implore he to continue campaign for this vital service . during the previous 10 year or so , one student have die every four day in England and Wales due to suicide . member of this House have previously put question to Departments on several occasion on establish a statutory duty of care on high education provider towards their student , yet the position remain uncertain for student who may be very vulnerable but be not diagnose with a disability . will the Leader of the House please meet I and the director of student life and designate safeguard lead at the University of Wolverhampton in my constituency to discuss and clarify what duty and responsibility university have towards their student ' health and wellbee ? these be shocking statistic and difficult story to hear . they be not just number but individual tragedy happen in our university . the Department for Education lead on these matter , and I will ensure that the relevant Minister have hear my hon . friend ' s important question . flooding be an increase concern across the country . only last month , I meet agency involve in tackle flooding on the railway at Old Sodbury , which impact on the surround farmland and cause home in Yate to be flood during Storm Bert — yet the Government have make no funding commitment for flood protection beyond next April . will the Leader of the House ask the Flooding Minister to bring to the House plan for long - term flood protection funding ? we have boost flood protection funding considerably after year of under - investment and cut by the previous Government , and we have a flood taskforce in place . we have already make a number of statement on flooding , but I will ensure that the House be keep update on all our plan for enhance flood defence . LightSpeed Broadband have be instal infrastructure across my constituency . disgracefully , it have falsely claim in communication , include write letter to my constituent , that during a meeting I sign off on its work . that be a gross misrepresentation of the meeting I hold with the company to raise complaint about this issue , and this unacceptable behaviour undermine member and this House . may I therefore request a statement on how the Government be ensure that corporate company can not misrepresent member , make false claim for financial gain or undermine mps in their constituency , and the penalty for do so ? such company be a disgrace , and I warn colleague about their conduct . I be sorry to hear of that shocking incident and that LightSpeed have misrepresent my hon . friend so badly to her constituent . she be absolutely right to raise the matter on the Floor of the House , and I be sure that it will get the attention it deserve . estate management monopoly be blight the life of homeowner across the country , include resident of Cofton Hackett in my constituency . the most egregious example by company include FirstPort — of which I know many colleague be aware — represent at good carelessness and at bad a lack of moral ethic . do the Leader of the House agree that the regulation of estate management company be essential , and will she update the House on when these essential fleecehold reform will come forward ? absolutely , and the case of FirstPort have already be raise in this session . it be obviously a matter of great concern to the hon . member ' s constituent and across the House . we be absolutely committed to leasehold reform . we have already publish the common - hold White Paper and have bring forward regulation to make the right to manage easy . we will also bring forward a comprehensive draft leasehold reform Bill later this year , which I be sure the whole House will welcome . this government be get on with build new railway line across the country : High Speed 2 , East West Rail and , of course , the TransPennine route upgrade , which will benefit my constituent . do my right hon . friend agree that one of those line should be name the ture line to honour Alan Turing ' s personal tenacity , british brilliance and english ingenuity ? as the MP for Manchester Central , I be huge fan of Alan Turing and ensure that he get the recognition that he so deserve . it would be a fitting tribute to consider name the TransPennine route , or perhaps some other rail line , after he . it be important that we get those upgrade , and the transport infrastructure connect our constituency , as the north deserve . the Leader of the House know a great deal about my constituency because I never tire of tell she about it during business question , so she know that it be in the administrative county of Surrey , but she may not know that it be in the historic county of Middlesex . tomorrow be Middlesex Day . I write to the Government on Monday to remind they gently of that fact and to suggest that the Middlesex flag be fly over Downing Street . I have not yet have a reply to that letter , but I do not really mind about that as long as they fly the flag . as a new Member of Parliament , the hon . Gentleman fly the flag for Spelthorne very well indeed . I know which constituency he represent and he should take great pride from that . I be sure that we can all recognise the historic Middlesex Day this week . I plan to host in June a joint event with the Royal British Legion and the Ministry of Defence armed force covenant team . the aim be to well inform mps across the House about the current offering of the covenant . as part of the event , there will be an opportunity for all member to engage with constituent share their experience of the armed force covenant . might the Leader of the House allow some Government time in the House in the week commence 7 July so that these real voice and experience can be hear in this place and represent by their local MP ? it sound like my hon . friend be organise a great event to share experience of the armed force covenant with member of Parliament . he give I a great deal of notice for the debate that he request , so I will certainly consider it and ensure that he get a full response . the town of Bude in my rural constituency be far from a district hospital than almost anywhere else in the country . Derriford hospital in Plymouth be more than an hour and a half away . the no . 12 bus from Bude to Plymouth have make two change , which mean the route now have three bus and often three different bus fare . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on how the Government should fund vital healthcare transport route ? ensure that health service be available in every community be a vital part of the Government ' s health mission . we also need to ensure that those service be connect and join up with local transport . the hon . Gentleman will have hear I say that the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill be come to the House after recess ; he may wish to raise these issue then . this weekend , young Hartlepool sporting star will compete on the national stage . the Oaksway under - 14 netball squad have qualify for the England Netball national final in Sheffield on 17 and 18 May . will the Leader of the House join I in wish the team the very good of luck for the final , and in thank clean energy company Enviromena , whose generation donation , among other , have help to make their participation possible ? I join my hon . friend in wish Oaksway under - 14 netball squad all the very good for the event in Sheffield — I be sure that they will do Hartlepool proud — and in thank the sponsor for make it happen . last week , I have the privilege of visit Ash Field academy , a truly remarkable place in my constituency . it be more than a school ; it be a sanctuary for more than 150 extraordinary child , many of whom unfortunately have life - limit condition , and physical and mental challenge . despite that , I be strike by their boundless joy , courage and unbreakable spirit . however , during my visit , I hear the school community ' s deep concern about propose cut to post - 16 transport funding — change that would have a devastating impact on the child , their family and the school . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate the incredible work of Ash Field academy and its staff — particularly Mrs Martin and Mrs Chamberlain — and will she affirm that access to education , especially for our most vulnerable young people , must never be hinder by a lack of transport ? I join the hon . gentleman in recognise the great work that Ash Field academy do in bring so much joy , love and education to all those who go there . he raise the important matter of access to transport funding . that be a matter for local area , and I be sure that his remark have be hear . he may want to raise that important issue on Second Reading of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , after the recess . there be real concern from family in Truro and Falmouth that change to the adoption and special guardianship support fund be be bring in before the impact be fully know or assess . match funding be go from the fund , which be use for emergency support package for the most complex case — include child affect by foetal alcohol syndrome — where there be a real risk of a return to care and of harm . individual support budget be also go down , and funding for specialist assessment be include in those budget . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the impact of change to the adoption and special guardianship support fund ? I thank my hon . friend for raise those issue , which have be raise with I many time before — indeed , Mr Speaker grant an urgent question on this a few week ago . I recognise that the fund offer a huge amount of support to adoptive and kinship family , who do a tremendous job . we should all commend they for their work , include the life - change role that adoptive parent play for the child they look after . I will ensure that the relevant Minister give a full reply , and I will remind Ministers that this be a matter of great importance to the House and that we should get regular update . rise — order . unless question and answer be very short , many colleague will be disappoint . at the UN Security Council this week , humanitarian affair co - ordinator Tom Fletcher talk about the need to prevent genocide in Gaza . he say : " future generation will hold we in this chamber to account " . member of this House be give the opportunity yesterday to ask the Government about their assessment of the likelihood of genocide in Gaza , but will the Leader of the House grant a debate about the obligation on government such as our to prevent genocide ? I know that many colleague , and many member of the public , will have hear that important speech by Tom Fletcher at the UN Security Council . we have an extensive debate in the House about these matter yesterday . I reiterate that the Government want to see an end to what be happen in Gaza — an end to the bloodshed and the airstrike — with aid get in , an urgent ceasefire and the hostage return , alongside work towards a long - term , diplomatic solution . it be not for the Government of the day to make an adjudication on whether genocide have happen ; that be a matter for international court , and we absolutely respect the international court and what they do . a constituent who work in the banking sector all her life be now be tell that , because of an abatement clause in her contract , she may receive 20 % less of her pension than would otherwise reasonably be anticipate . will the Leader of the House support my call for the Government to identify those affect by underhand pension clawback and support they in seek due redress ? on pension clawback , it be important to ensure that pension customer be treat fairly and decently . we will shortly introduce a pension Bill that will contain additional consumer protection , and my hon . friend may wish to raise those matter then . I thank the Leader of the House for this opportunity to raise an important matter , as I try to do every week . around the world , many christian and other religious minority community face persecution , displacement and violence . Non - governmental organisation and faith - base charity do vital work to support they , and overseas development aid also have a crucial role to play . will the Leader of the House ask the relevant Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Minister to update the House on how UK ODA currently support persecute religious minority , and may we have a statement , or a debate in Government time , on how we can well use aid to protect freedom of religion or belief globally ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the important matter of freedom of religion or belief , as he do every week in business question . I will ensure that Ministers keep the House update on the overseas development aid budget and its distribution . may we have a debate in Government time on make the issuance of bilingual death certificate the default for deceased person from Wales ? I be recently visit by a constituent who be unable to get such a certificate for her late husband . she have be tell that that be because of the circumstance of her case and that , unless there be a change in approach , her only way to get one will be to go the High Court , have the current process quash and undertake another inquest . what support or advice can the Leader of the House offer I and my constituent , and do she agree that bilingual death certificate should be the default when the deceased person be from Wales ? I be sorry to hear about that case . I know that this can be distress for people at what be already a very distressing time . my hon . friend will know that death registration law be a matter for the General Register Office , but I can assure he that the Ministry of Justice be work with the GRO to encourage it , particularly when it come to bilingual request such as the one in his constituency . pupil at Leverhulme Memorial school in Harris , in the most beautiful constituency in the country , have win the top prize in the Eco - Schools Scotland award . they be the most environmentally aware pupil on the planet , and when I visit the school they give I a lesson on the effect of microplastic on the marine environment . will the Leader of the House join their campaign and that of the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , who be not in his place , to lessen the effect of microplastic on the marine environment ? I ask this not for cross - party unity , but for the planet and for the pupil of Leverhulme Memorial school . I congratulate the student of Leverhulme Memorial school on educate my hon . friend , and now the rest of we , about the problem that microplastic cause in our marine environment . the private Member ' s Bill promote by the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) — the Microplastic Filters ( Washing Machines ) Bill — will have its second reading on 20 June , and I think it would make a very popular topic for a debate . my right hon . friend will be aware that mum and baby have be badly fail in the past by maternity service at Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother hospital in my constituency . I be sure she will share my delight that the unit have now be rate " good " by the Care Quality Commission . that improvement be testament to the hard work that have be put in by hospital management and staff to turn thing round . will she join I in welcome the £ 1 . 8 million for additional improvement in the maternity unit , and share my rise confidence that QEQM have turn a corner — though I will keep a close eye on it , to ensure that we see further improvement in care for new mum and baby in Thanet ? I be really pleased to hear that maternity service in my hon . friend ' s constituency have be rate " good " by the CQC . that be a great testament to all the work of those in the hospital and the community . I be really pleased to hear that there be new money go in , and I look forward to she keep a close eye on their performance . last weekend , my constituency host Golcar Lily Day and the Udders Lindley cider festival , and the Holmfirth folk festival mark its 47th year , have proudly maintain its community - base root . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the organiser of these vibrant festival , and may we have a debate in Government time on the importance of local festival in attract tourism and strengthen local economy ? once again , my hon . friend highlight the tourist hotspot of his constituency , in Golcar and Holmfirth — he be a great champion for they . he be right : these festival can really draw in the crowd to our constituency . I will ensure that the relevant Minister be make aware for the next time he go on a visit there . my constituent pc Demar Rowe have be nominate for a national police bravery award . in the summer of 2023 , while off duty and without protective equipment or handcuff , he be able to disarm a man wield an electric saw and restrain he for 20 minute while he wait for the police . I want to put on record my thank to pc Rowe . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise his bravery , pass this on to the Home Secretary and make time to mark the contribution that our police officer make in all our community ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in thank and congratulate pc Rowe — what remarkable bravery . I will ensure that the Home Secretary have hear her question and that we can all celebrate their great work . this week , when the Independent Pharmacies Association visit Parliament , I get stick in and have my blood pressure and blood take . it highlight the essential preventive work that pharmacy do to reduce pressure on GPs . will the Leader of the House join I in thank independent pharmacy for the vital role they play in community healthcare , welcome the record £ 3 . 1 billion uplift , and grant time for a debate on the importance of support local pharmacy ? I join my hon . friend in thank local pharmacy for the work they do . as she say , they play a vital role in preventive and community healthcare . that be what this Government be commit to , which be why we have put in extra funding and why we will continue to support community pharmacy such as those in her constituency . my constituent Tina have Rett syndrome and severe scoliosis and need a new wheelchair . she be measure for one over a year ago but be still wait to receive it . in my constituency the only option for get a wheelchair through the NHS be AJM Healthcare . Tina ' s mum and dad be not the first constituent to raise with I problem with AJM , and I doubt they will be the last . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on how we can improve wheelchair service for constituent such as Tina and Noah — I have mention he before — and , importantly , on how we can hold badly perform provider to account ? I be sorry to hear of my hon . friend ' s constituent ' experience . as she will know , NHS England have recently issue new guidance on this for integrated care board . that include the wheelchair quality frame - work , publish in April this year , which we hope will improve the experience for constituent such as hers . overnight , the israeli Government have issue one of the large evacuation order see in the last 20 month . the Minister with responsibility for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , have appear before this House to make statement and respond to question on numerous occasion . however , it be clear that member on both side of the House be increasingly alarm by the israeli Government ' s action . will the Leader of the House schedule an urgent debate in Government time on the UK ' s response to the conflict and recognition of the palestinian state ? this have be raise with I a number of time today . as I have say , the situation in Gaza be truly intolerable . we need to see an urgent ceasefire , aid go in , the killing stop and hostage release . we have to work towards a long - term solution in the middle east . the Minister have come to the House on many occasion , and I will ensure that the House be keep constantly update . I can assure my hon . friend that this Government be take a lead role in ensure that peace be bring to Gaza and the middle east . the modernisation and introduction of the blue badge programme be a lasting legacy of the last Labour Government . can the Leader of the House provide time to discuss a cross - party campaign , lead by Kent MPs and the editor of my local paper , Matt Ramsden , to support the success of the scheme and look at the inclusion of time - limit condition in the eligibility criterion ? I be well aware of the great campaigning that my hon . friend , other Kent mps and his local newspaper be do on blue badge , which be vital for those who receive they . I think we have already have a debate on this important matter , but I be sure that a further debate would have wide support . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome tomorrow ' s launch of the national celebration call Love your local market ? it be a two - week campaign where market upload their detail to a map , and we can promote their business , food and culture as a key driver of local economic growth , such as my fabulous indoor market in Shrewsbury , vote the UK ' s favourite market for the third year run . I will have a look at the Love your local market website later today . I know of the fantastic market in my hon . friend ' s constituency and be sure that many people will be visit it this weekend . HARP — Haweswater aqueduct resilience programme — be a 10 - year project about to commence for United Utilities to tunnel water through my constituency from the Lake district to Manchester . I recently meet resident of the community that this work will disrupt for a decade . will the Leader of the House assure my resident that this Labour Government strongly expect big infrastructure stakeholder such as United Utilities to be proactive in provide regular communication and engage with the community they have active project in ? would she consider allow time for the House to debate how community impact should be mitigate in area disproportionately affect by new water infrastructure project ? let I be clear : the Government expect water company , include United Utilities , to engage with local community about big project such as the one my hon . friend describe in her constituency . we want to see water company be more accountable . that be why we have already pass legislation on that , and there will be further legislation come soon . my resident be very concerned about animal welfare issue , which be why there be such outrage at the weekend after report in a national newspaper of horrific abuse of animal by worker at an intensive livestock farm . give that next year will mark 20 year since the last Labour Government bring in the historic Animal Welfare Act 2006 , may we have a debate on intensive livestock farming practice and the fact that regulation do not go far enough to protect animal welfare ? absolutely . animal welfare attract a great deal of interest from member from across the House , and this Government be commit to introduce the most ambitious programme for animal welfare in a generation , build on our historical reputation on this issue . we have a number of manifesto pledge that we will bring forward this Parliament . my constituent Gerry Borge share with I the story of his father ' s and uncle ' s service with the Royal Scots in the far east during world war two . next Tuesday , a memorial will be unveil in the Zhoushan island to commemorate the death of over 800 ally serviceman who be captive on the sunken freighter Lisbon Maru , and hundred of survivor rescue by chinese fisherman who brave the sea . Gerry will be in attendance , represent his family member who survive . will the Leader of the House make a statement on remember those who perish in the tragedy , and the bravery of the rescuer ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue . that tragedy need to be remember , and she have make sure that we be remember it today . I be pleased to hear about the new memorial be unveil . I hope the whole House will join I in pay tribute to my constituent Roger Cooper , who die this week . Roger be a brilliant , decent man and a member of the Labour party . he campaign for over 60 year for the party , his first election be in 1964 , and I be extremely proud that what turn out to be his last election elect a Labour Government and a Labour MP . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Roger , and to all member of all political party who be the unsung hero of our democracy ? absolutely ; I join my hon . friend and the whole House in pay tribute to Roger Cooper and his 60 year of service to the Labour party . whichever party we be from , we all know that our party member and activist be the reason we be here , represent our constituent . Roger will have be thrill that the final general election he be involve in manage to elect such a wonderful Labour MP for High Peak , and a Labour Government , after 14 year . we send our heartfelt wish to his family . sanction Implementation and Enforcement with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the cross - Government review of sanction implementation and enforcement . I promise to update the House on this issue at the early opportunity , and I be glad to have the chance to do so today . for those member who want to get into the full detail , they be be publish on gov . uk . sanction be a powerful tool in our armoury , and a vital foreign policy and national security tool . they be use to deter and disrupt threat and malign behaviour , and to demonstrate our value . our sanction support UK interest , protect our citizen , and defend international peace and security . maximise economic pressure on Russia be key to secure a just and last peace in Ukraine , as we debate in the House yesterday . as I say then , the UK have sanction over 2 , 400 target under our Russia regime , and international sanction have deprive Putin of $ 450 billion dollar since the invasion begin — an amount of money that would have allow he to prosecute this terrible war for many more year . since July 2024 , this Government have introduce over 500 new sanction designation against individual , entity and ship . just last Friday , the Prime Minister announce a major package of sanction to target the decrepit and dangerous shadow fleet carry russian oil . this be the large package of sanction against the shadow fleet , with 110 target . accord to some estimate , sanction have cripple 200 ship — almost half of Putin ' s entire fleet . President Zelensky be serious about peace , agree in principle to a full , unconditional , and immediate ceasefire . his readiness for that peace be demonstrate by his being in T ü rkiye . meanwhile , Putin have dodge and delay , all the while rain down terror on Ukraine . if Putin do not engage seriously on peace , the UK and our ally will have no choice but to ramp up the economic pressure even far , force he to the table . alongside take measure against Russia , we be use designation to uphold human right and promote democracy around the world . just last month , we target pro - Kremlin operative responsible for destabilise Moldova , and we sanction corrupt official in Georgia and Guatemala for undermine democracy and the rule of law . we will not stop there . we will continue to expose malign activity wherever we find it , use the full range of sanction tool at our disposal to shape the world for the well . sanction play a crucial part in the Foreign Secretary ' s mission to tackle corruption and dirty money , which be vital to protect the UK from criminal and safeguard our democracy . in January , the Foreign Secretary announce our new world - first legislation to use sanction to crack down on those fuel irregular migration . this Government be commit not only to use sanction effectively , but — this be the main focus of the statement — to ensure that they be enforce rigorously . that mean punish serious breach with large fine or criminal prosecution . in opposition , we recognise that there be a need for great focus on sanction enforcement . since we come to office , we have be work across Government on this , as well as liaise with law enforcement partner and industry . in October , we launch the office of trade sanction implementation , which have new civil enforcement power to crack down on those seek to soften the blow of our sanction . at the same time , we introduce civil power for the Department for Transport to enforce transport sanction . we have reinforce the office of financial sanction implementation in his Majesty ' s Treasury — know as OFSI for short — and the multi - agency Joint Maritime Security Centre , enable they well to tackle evasion and develop new tool target the russian shadow fleet , include in the english channel . the investment and improvement that we have make be already pay off . last month , OFSI impose a penalty of £ 465 , 000 on a major law firm ' s subsidiary for breach of sanction link to Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . we also see the UK ' s first successful prosecution under the Russia financial sanction regulation , thank to excellent work by the National Crime Agency . I commend it and its team for the incredible work that they have do . I expect to see more enforcement action in the come year — I obviously can not go into the detail of that in the House , but we should be assure that our team be work effectively in a range of agency and across Government . funding from the economic deterrence initiative have be critical to strengthen our capability and maintain the UK ' s reputation among its ally . that initiative be bolster sanction work in the overseas territory and Crown dependency . for example , in the british Virgin Islands , it have enable the NCA to support enforcement and combat potential circumvention . excellent work have be go on in that regard , and we host ot and cd at Lancaster House just a few month ago , to collaborate and ensure that we be improve capability across those territory . I turn to the enforcement review . I be determined to go after those who try to evade our sanction . in October , I launch a cross - ministerial review to look at how we can improve UK sanction implementation and enforcement . a strong sanction regime be crucial for achieve our foreign policy goal and , in turn , build a secure and prosperous UK . this forward - lean review have three goal : first , to make it easy to comply with our sanction , which will help business to support we in our share goal ; secondly , to increase the deterrent effect of enforcement and make it clear that avoid sanction do not pay ; and , thirdly , to enhance our ability to take robust action against those seek to evade our measure . we be publish the report on the conclusion today , and I be glad of this opportunity to set out how we will ensure that the UK ' s approach continue to set a gold standard . we know that the vast majority of business agree with our sanction and be keen to work with we to make sure that they be enforce . to simplify compliance , we have launch a new email alert system to keep UK business update on designation , legislation , licence , and other related topic . we be also make our guidance clear and easy to access , provide further clarity to UK industry on ownership and control , and introduce a single sanction list for all designate person . we will also assess the benefit of create a single reporting point for suspect breach . to give our sanction extra bite and deter evasion , we will publish a new enforcement strategy , make clear the consequence of non - compliance . we will look at new option to accelerate civil penalty for financial sanction breach , include via an early settlement scheme , and we be dedicate to strengthen our enforcement tool and ensure that we have the necessary power , capability , and intelligence . we have already take action . last month , we introduce measure to prevent designate individual from hold director role in the UK , protect our brilliant british business . the Department for Business and Trade be update law to protect worker who report breach of financial , transport and certain trade sanction , give they crucial whistleblow protection . those action , take together and at pace , will far improve our world - class sanction regime , allow the UK to project strength and promote the rule of law across the world . but we be not satisfied with just those measure . we be commit to explore other area , so that we can go even far and deep to improve enforcement . a number of those area will take long to scope ; I will be able to update the House on they in due course . we will explore option for more effective join - up on intelligence , include the merit of a new joint sanction intelligence function . we will consider the introduction of sanction end - use licensing control for export with a high risk of sanction diversion . we will continue to support the british overseas territory and Crown dependency in enhance their enforcement capability , and will explore enhance transport power to target specific aircraft with sectoral sanction . as appropriate , we will update Parliament when additional outcome have be scope , include those that require new or amend legislation . we have bring forward a number of piece of sanction legislation recently ; in addition , we expand our Russia regime this week into a range of area , and vary our Syria regime in the light of change circumstance there . let I conclude by reiterate this Government ' s commitment to strengthen the implementation and enforcement of UK sanction . as we deliver the action set out in the review , we will continue to engage across Departments and with industry , wide stakeholder and international partner to maximise the effectiveness of our work . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . this be the third time in a week that the Minister and I have meet across the Dispatch Box to debate sanction . once again , I thank he for advance sight of his statement . sanction be imperative in support the rule - base international system and punish those who breach those rule . the last Conservative Government place sanction on Assad and his cruel regime , and help to lead a co - ordinate approach with our ally on Syria . Britain put in place sanction on Iran , and work with the US to reaffirm our share commitment to oppose those who threaten peace , security and stability in the middle east . in 2021 , the UK put in place sanction , include asset freeze , on chinese Government official for gross human right abuse . Britain lead international effort to sanction Putin and those behind his war machine in response to Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . we put plan in place to set up the office of trade sanction implementation , which , as the Minister say , be formally establish in October . it be set up to bolster our trade sanction capability , crack down on company that breach trade sanction , and co - ordinate across Government to ensure that sanction be implement effectively . at the time , the Minister announce a cross - Government review . we have not yet see the report , but I wish to press the Minister on a few point . first , what change be be make to the sanction implementation and enforcement framework ? what role do OTSI play in any change ? the Minister refer to robust action to increase sanction evasion deterrence , but what specific measure be be consider ? he also mention a new enforcement strategy ; when can we expect that to be publish ? I would welcome clarity on how the new joint sanction intelligence function fit into our exist intelligence framework . how do he envisage that work with what we be do with the US and our other five Eyes partner ? as I be sure the Minister appreciate , thank to our leave the European Union , we now have our own sanction framework . the flexibility to set our own framework and lead the charge with ally and partner can not be squander . do the Minister expect the EU security pact to touch on the independence of our sanction regime ? we should look to build on the strong measure that we have place on country and entity . what progress be be make in identify further sanction to impose on those already target ? will the Minister give we an assessment of the number of group and militia operate in Syria ? how will he ensure that the relaxation in sanction benefit the people of Syria ? how often will he review the impact of the relaxation of sanction ? will he commit to put sanction on entity and people in Syria if the standard that we expect in relation to protect right be not meet ? will the Government consider introduce a new bespoke sanction regime and set of regulation for Syria ? the critical mass of the current UK sanction on Iran be introduce under the last Conservative Government . sanction form one part of the approach to tackle Iran , but what be the Minister ' s broad strategy on Iran ? when we be in government , we impose the large and most severe set of sanction that Russia have ever see . the economic pressure that we have collectively impose with the international community have cripple the russian economy and deprive Putin of $ 400 billion that could have fund his illegal war . we can not afford to let up on exert that pressure on Putin ' s war machine . part of that include tackle russian asset . what consideration have the Minister give to deploy asset from the sale of Chelsea football club to support Ukraine ? will he confirm a timeframe for deploy that money ? I would welcome clarity on what information be come forward to the Minister about potential sanction breach and loophole that be be exploit . do the review sufficiently plug the gap that have be identify ? will he update we on what action he be take against any third party country that be support the country and entity we have already sanction ? finally , how do the Minister plan to deepen our international co - ordination ? what discussion have the Government have with the United States ? do the Government have advance knowledge of yesterday ' s announcement ? will it have a bearing on UK policy on sanction on Syria ? sanction be a crucial tool in our diplomatic arsenal . we must ensure that they operate as effectively as possible to ensure that international norm be adhere to . I thank the shadow Minister for her broad welcome for this work . I will do my good to answer as many of her question as I can . the shadow Minister ask I about the overall review . as I say , it be be publish now and she can peruse that when she can ; I encourage other hon . member to look at that as well . we welcome feedback and suggestion on it . to summarise a couple of the key theme , we recognise that different sector be at different level of maturity with sanction , and that Government communication and engagement need to reflect that . some area need more assistance ; there be a lot of will , but they need support . some of the measure can be very technical and we want to ensure that business can comply . direct engagement between Government and industry be important , as that have the high impact on compliance . we need to bring together our effort so that they be understand . a range of different agency be do important and distinct work , but that need to be understand by the layperson . we need to improve our guidance and ensure we bridge any gap in unclear regulation . we need to ensure that people understand the consequence of breach sanction , as well as the option . if they voluntarily disclose measure , as a number of business and other have do , there be way forward . the shadow Minister ask I about intelligence and co - operation with other country , which be crucial . we will explore how that intelligence function work , but I can assure she that there be already a huge amount of co - operation between we and key partner , include in the United States , the EU and elsewhere . Cross - Government co - operation be also important . our official work incredibly hard and I pay tribute to the incredible team in the sanction unit at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , and in other Departments , because they do remarkable work . the shadow Minister ask specifically about co - operation with the EU . it be important that we co - operate with the EU on sanction , as we do already . that be be consider , along with a range of measure , as we approach the important summit next week . I assure she that our sanction policy remain our own , but we can often have maximum effect when we work in co - ordination with other . the EU be progress its own package against Russia and other . on third country circumvention , I have pay particular attention to that issue ; indeed , I have meeting just this morning to raise concern on that specific issue with a partner country . such meeting be a feature of pretty much every week , and we be bear down on all the route that might support measure that undermine our sanction . on the sale of Chelsea football club , we be determined to see the proceed reach humanitarian cause in Ukraine as soon as possible , and we be do everything we can to bring that about quickly , but this be a complex legal issue . the UK be work with international partner , have engage with Abramovich ' s team and be explore all option to ensure that the proceed reach vulnerable people in Ukraine who be most in need . on Syria , the shadow Minister know that we update the regime this week , and we remain with those sanction against the Assad regime , but we have remove restriction on other . we reserve the right to introduce new sanction in future circumstance on any regime , but we will keep the situation there under close review and respond to the change circumstance . we will judge the new Government by their action . on Iran , we announce on 14 April further sanction to tackle the domestic threat pose by the iranian regime by sanction the Iranian - back , Sweden - base Foxtrot criminal network and its leader , Rawa Majid , for their role in attack against target across Europe . we take very firm action in relation to the supply of ballistic missile to Russia for use in the illegal war in Ukraine . we remain determined that Iran must never develop a nuclear weapon , and we be commit to use all tool available to ensure that , include use the UN sanction snapback mechanism if necessary . lastly , the shadow Minister ask about enforcement , how we be have an impact and what difference be be make . I have already give some example , but another example be that in April , the National Crime Agency secure the first criminal conviction for the breach of russian sanction . Dmitry Ovsyannikov be find guilty of circumvent sanction regulation and money laundering after receive £ 76 , 000 from his wife and a new Mercedes from his brother , who be also find guilty of circumvent sanction regulation . they be sentence to 40 month imprisonment and 15 month imprisonment suspend for 15 month respectively , so the right hon . Lady can be absolutely assure that all the appropriate authority be act . these investigation be often complex and necessarily be not make public . I urge the House to bear with some of our excellent team in different agency as they seek to enforce on these regime . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the Minister already know my view that , as we develop our sanction policy , Parliament should be more engaged so that we can have collective knowledge and all feed in to the good possible sanction policy . we do not have enough of that at the moment , and there be more that we should do . one thing that member would do be suggest more creative way of use sanction and more lateral thinking , but , in the end , it do not matter how creative or eye - catch a sanction be : if it be not enforce , it mean nothing . my concern , and the concern of many , be that there be simply not enough investigation be do for breach of sanction , particularly against british company . I have listen very carefully to the rapid way in which the Minister give his statement and read carefully what be in it , but nothing in it say that more resource will be put into actually investigate potential breach of sanction . we can change rule and give more power , but if there be not enough people actually kick down door — literally or otherwise — to ensure that company be not breach sanction , we be frankly waste a fantastic opportunity . my right hon . friend be no stranger to these issue , and it have be a pleasure to engage with she on they in my conversation with she . I welcome the work of her Committee in that regard . I gently say that there have be a significant amount of parliamentary scrutiny of sanction — include two occasion this week already , as the shadow Minister mention , as well as the course of our debate , fcdo oral question and my statement today — but I be absolutely committed to engage with parliamentarian . we have hold a number of roundtable , and I hope to continue to do those on a regular basis . we welcome all advice and information from parliamentarian . it be often not possible to come back to the House , particularly on specific information and suggestion . my right hon . friend will understand the importance of our not comment on possible future designation , because do so would lessen their impact . my right hon . friend rightly raise the challenge of the actual resource for enforcement . they be across a range of agency and Departments and be subject to ongoing discussion in the spending review , but , have witness the work of a number of those organisation , I can assure she that they be do some absolutely incredible work . I will give another example : in March , the office of financial sanction implementation announce the imposition of a civil monetary penalty of £ 465 , 000 against HSF Moscow for breach UK sanction and publicise the lesson that industry can learn from that case . there be example after example , and I want to see more of they . I will continue to work with our enforcement agency and other to ensure that be the case . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I welcome the cross - party consensus we have hear today that an effective sanction regime be one of the most potent tool at our disposal to promote the UK ' s ideal and interest abroad . it have form a vital pillar in the strategy to punish Putin and undermine his ability to prosecute the war in Ukraine . however , our sanction regime must be coherent and consistently apply to be effective . I know that the Minister be personally committed to that , and I welcome today ' s report , yet the disparate responsibility across department and agency have sometimes work against the effectiveness of our approach despite the hard work of official , to which the Minister have already refer . what lesson can the Minister point to from the review that will ensure that future development and application of our sanction policy will be truly join up across the many agency in Government ? follow President Trump ' s meeting yesterday with President al - Sharaa , our approach to sanction in Syria be a critical test of that approach . can the Minister confirm that the Government will consider lift further sanction on Syria only if sanction relief be precede by clear progress towards political inclusion and the protection of minority group and woman in Syria ? the Minister know that the liberal Democrats have repeatedly urge the Government to use sanction more robustly against the leader of country that have take action against british value or in violation of international law . may I therefore urge he to use the impetus from the review to take a fresh look at three case ? will he and official urgently review the application of sanction on supporter of the Georgian Dream party , include Bidzina Ivanishvili and Irakli Kobakhidze , who be work to suppress democracy in Georgia ? will they review that for official in Hong Kong who have lead the suppression of democracy in the city and the extraterritorial intimidation of democracy campaigner resident in the UK ? will they also review that for the extremist member of the Israeli Cabinet , Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , who continue to advocate for the conquest of Gaza and the forced displacement of Palestinians from the occupy territory ? I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for his broad support for the thrust of these measure and agree with many of the point he make . he specifically ask I about Syria . we have an extensive discussion about this early this week , but I be absolutely clear that the sanction on those individual responsible for atrocity under the Assad regime remain in place . the change that we have make be relate to ensure that financial and economic activity in line with the potential for peace and stability in Syria be able to emerge , but I assure he that we keep the situation under very close review and retain the ability to impose further sanction and other measure at a future point . he make point about an inclusive political settlement and the absence of violence . we have see some very worrying incident in recent month , and we will watch very carefully and closely along with other partner and co - ordinate with other on that . the hon . Gentleman also raise three specific context . he know that I will not comment on future designation , but we always welcome input , and I note what he say . in relation to Georgia , we have sanction multiple individual responsible in relation to the repressive action and corruption that we have see in recent month , and we keep the situation under close review . I be deeply concerned about the situation in Georgia . I have make that clear to georgian Dream representative , and I will make it absolutely clear again . our team be work very closely , and the hon . Gentleman know that we have suspend wide co - operation with Georgia . that be a deep regret , because we have significant and positive relation with it , but as long as it turn away from the Euro - Atlantic path , there must be consequence , as well as consequence for the action it have take domestically and otherwise . I note what he have say , but , as he will understand , I will not comment on future designation . the Minister be do important work on sanction that be highly relevant to the situation in the middle east , where Israel ' s aid blockade mean that large number of child in Gaza will begin die of starvation in the come day . it plan to dismantle the humanitarian system and replace aid worker with mercenary . the israeli Government be threaten the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians and call up the military to make it happen , while british diplomat at the UN warn of genocide . this House can not say , " never again " , to atrocity unless it act when face with they . do the Minister agree that the UK must uphold the responsibility to protect and that concrete action , include fresh sanction on israeli Ministers , be need to stop Israel in its track , let aid in , get hostage out and force an urgent ceasefire ? my hon . friend speak with typical passion and from her experience of these matter . she will know that we do not comment on potential future sanction , but as the Foreign Secretary say in Parliament on 1 April , we continue to keep all these issue under review . the culture of impunity for those engage in violence be intolerable , and the Foreign Secretary have also be clear with israeli Ministers that the israeli Government must clamp down on settler violence and settlement expansion — my hon . friend will know the sanction we have impose in that regard . she will also know the action we have take against Hamas and palestinian Islamic Jihad and the designation that have be introduce , and that we have repeatedly call for an immediate ceasefire . we have restore funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , suspend a number of our export licence and provide £ 129 million in humanitarian assistance , and we continue to work at every level to bring an end to the horrific violence we be see and the intolerable death toll . we will continue to work with all of our partner globally to achieve that . do the Minister agree that , now it be slowly dawn on President Trump that his friend Vladimir be string he along , there be good prospect that America will not weaken the level of sanction it impose on Russia ? can he also clarify one point ? he say in his statement — and also yesterday evening — that if Putin do not engage seriously with peace , the UK and our ally will have no choice but to ramp up the economic pressure even far , force he to the table . I would have think that we ought to be ramp up the economic pressure now to the maximum level that we can , so unless the Minister be just say that that ramp up will take long , can I suggest that the Government get on with it as quickly as possible ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that we have be ramp up that pressure — indeed , the new measure we take just last night on support to Russia and its military industrial complex do exactly that , let alone the huge package of designation we have introduce against the shadow fleet . again on the topic of enforcement , during its first six month of operation — from 1 October last year to 6 April this year — the UK ' s voluntary insurance reporting mechanism have challenge 271 suspect shadow fleet vessel in the english channel on their insurance . not only be we put these measure in place , but we be follow up on they . we have be very clear that President Zelensky be serious about peace — he have repeatedly show that by his action . Vladimir Putin have not . we be clear that our sanction will remain in place and we will continue to do all we can to choke off support for the russian war machine , which be cause such devastation in Ukraine . give that sanction provide crucial leverage and deprive individual and regime of power and resource , it be vital that they be apply equally . when we see the effect that sanction have have on Putin ' s Russia , we question why the Government have not bring equality against the israeli regime , whose treatment of the Palestinians be push people into starvation and famine and ultimately bring 2 . 1 million people to their death . in light of Israel ' s action , we need equality , and while I understand that the Minister will not make pronouncement from the Dispatch Box today , could he set out how he formulate the evidence by which the threshold be reach for sanction to be apply ? will he look again at those framework to ensure that there be equality , so that we can use sanction effectively and the world understand where this country be come from ? my hon . friend ask about the broad principle that underlie our sanction action . essentially , there be three part : the first be to deter malign activity , the second be to disrupt malign activity , and the third be to demonstrate value . as I reference , we have impose sanction in relation to extreme settler violence , and we have work with other partner on a range of measure . she will understand that I be not go to comment on future designation , as I say a moment ago , but we remain deeply seized of the situation in Gaza at present . the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , as well as the Foreign Secretary and other , be deeply engage with this issue , and I have set out a number of the step we have take to respond to it . my hon . friend can be assure that we act around the world through our sanction regime , and I have give a number of example — not just geographic area , but in relation to theme . I have mention the theme of tackle illicit finance and kleptocracy more widely . we have introduce a number of measure in that regard , so she can be assure that this be not simply about Russia and Ukraine sanction , but about act globally . the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) and I do not agree on many issue , but she be absolutely right to focus on enforcement . before come to this place , I be head of sanction and anti - money laundering at a financial institution , so with respect , I find it a bit naive for the Minister to say in his statement that avoid sanction do not pay ; these be often very profitable account . he also reference the issue of compliance in his statement , but institution often say that they be comply by file suspicious activity report , safe in the knowledge that insufficient action will be take . I appreciate that the stock answer be , " we do not comment on individual enforcement case " , but could the Minister tell we the average cost of a successful prosecution for a sanction breach , and how many there have be since the Government come to office ? the right hon . Gentleman know the industry and these measure — of course , he also hold senior role in government that be responsible for these matter — so he will understand that I be not go to go into the technical detail of every individual case . however , I can tell he that , for example , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have issue six compound settlement since 2022 against UK company that have breach the Russia trade sanction , for a total of £ 1 , 363 , 129 . those include a compound settlement in August 2023 for £ 1 million , so I feel absolutely justified in say that avoid sanction do not pay , and I be committed to ensure that we have more of these action in future . some of they will be public , while other will not be — a range of measure be in place . we be introduce new power , particularly to find way of settle case in which company have come forward and voluntarily disclose , but equally so that those that do not do so will face penalty . too often , sanction evasion happen via our british overseas territory , particularly through secretive haven such as the British Virgin Islands , and a lack of public ownership record complicate effort to find out who be involve in sidestep our sanction regime . with that in mind , can the Minister set out how he be work with all of the overseas territory to finally meet their commitment to introduce register of beneficial ownership , and can he reassure this place that our sanction be robustly enforce across the entire UK family ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue , which I have repeatedly raise with the leader of the overseas territory and indeed with the Crown dependency . we have see robust action on sanction , both in implement sanction and work with our authority to ensure that we have the big enforcement effect . I have mention the recent meeting we have at Lancaster House with sanction enforcement official , as well as the specific example of BVI . the National Crime Agency have be work with the british Virgin Islands on a range of issue , and that work have be very productive , but my hon . friend be absolutely right that transparency contribute to effective sanction . I have repeat my expectation that ot and cd should introduce fully accessible public register of beneficial ownership , but the ot also agree at last year ' s Joint Ministerial Council to introduce legitimate interest access register . we have see real progress from a number of they , although some other be not quite there yet . my hon . friend can be assure that I be not rest in raise serious concern about this issue , and I will continue to do so over the week ahead . I call Richard Foord , a member of the Select Committee . the G7 oil price cap prevent we from sell shipping and insurance service to company carry russian oil when it be sell above $ 60 per barrel . I appreciate that the Minister might say that he can not preannounce future sanction — I think we all understand that — but have the UK advocate with G7 ally for reduce that price cap far , give that in recent week , the price of crude oil have drop below $ 60 per barrel ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very important issue . I will not comment on future action , but since the introduction of the oil price cap , datum from the Russian Ministry of Finance show a 30 % reduction in tax revenue from oil in 2023 , compare with the year before . the price it have receive for flagship Urals - grade crude have continue to sit below global level , and our work — particularly on the shadow fleet — have significantly disrupt and impact the revenue that Putin be able to get from oil to fuel his war in Ukraine . we will consider all possible lawful measure to far strengthen our effort in that regard , but the good way to do so be by work with our international partner . we be engage in daily conversation on these matter , but of course , I will not comment on future specific action . I thank my hon . friend for his statement . will he commit to investigate whether further sanction be require on regional , federal , military and legal enforcement agency that have be involve in and make possible the continued mass abduction and deportation of ukrainian child to Russia ? at the very least , will he commit to ensure that the UK align its sanction against individual involve in this forcible transfer of child with those impose by the United States and the European Union ? my hon . friend raise a crucial point , and she know of my personal support and indeed that of the Foreign Secretary on this important issue . she know that we have already designate individual in this regard . we continue to keep all future sanction possibility under review . we will look closely at example of anybody involve in that heinous action of take ukrainian child away from their family and attempt to wipe out their culture and identity . as the sanction regime ramp up , although perhaps not as quickly as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) call for — I endorse that call — the Minister be right to be do the work he be do . as part of his review and assessment as those sanction ramp up and become more complicated , do he feel that everything possible be be do to ensure that UK - base business be keep up to date with that change picture , so that no one inadvertently fall on the wrong side of the law ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise that issue . the vast majority of UK business and individual want to comply with these regime . they support they , and they certainly do not want to be expose themselves or their customer to any additional risk . we want to make sure that they have the good advice in a timely , clear and understandable fashion . that be exactly what some of the measure in this review be set out to do . they consolidate information and how it be provide and ensure that there be training and capacity - building in sector that be perhaps less used to enforce in these area . he can be assure that that be very much at the heart of what we be do , because we want to help people to comply . my hon . friend make a powerful case for the efficacy of sanction in achieve our diplomatic and foreign policy aim , but as we observe the 50 , 000 death , the countless injury , the forced displacement , and now the possibility of mass starvation and the renewal of bombing of hospital by Israel in Gaza , be it not time that sanction be apply to Ministers such as Smotrich and Ben - Gvir ? it be perfectly understandable for the Minister to say that he will not discuss future designation in the Chamber , but will he consider and discuss with colleague the strength of feeling in this Chamber that sanction must be place on these individual soon rather than later ? my hon . friend raise important and serious issue . she know that we have repeatedly condemn the extreme rhetoric of far - right israeli Ministers . we have take action against violent settler group in the west bank . we be regularly support the humanitarian response in Gaza , whether that be through the £ 129 million of humanitarian assistance , the medical treatment and food , the work we have do with Jordan to fly medicine in or the work with Egypt to treat medically evacuate civilian and with Kuwait to support unicef . there be a range of measure , but she will understand that I will not comment on future designation . the UK rightly have impose sanction on Russia for its illegal invasion of Ukraine and on Putin for war crime . the UK have impose sanction on official in Syria for breach of international humanitarian law , for target hospital , school and aid convoy and for obstruct humanitarian aid , as well as for the use of chemical weapon and the indiscriminate bombing of civilian . how do the Government therefore justify the absence of similar sanction on senior member of the israeli Government , when there be clear evidence of Israel perpetrate the same violation ? what action have the UK Government take to comply with their obligation specify in the International Court of Justice advisory opinion from July 2024 to withdraw all political , economic and diplomatic support that help perpetuate Israel ' s unlawful occupation of Palestine ? the hon . Gentleman raise a number of question , and it might be helpful if I get the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) to respond to he directly on a number of they . we have repeatedly be clear , as I have just say , in condemnation of the extreme rhetoric of far - right israeli Ministers . we have be clear about the horrific situation that we see in Gaza . we have be clear about the support we be provide to make a difference on the ground . we have be clear in our support for a ceasefire and clear in our call for immediate humanitarian access . as I have say repeatedly , he will understand that I do not comment on future designation . can my hon . friend update we on what conversation have be have about the use of frozen and sanction russian asset to support those fight russian aggression in Ukraine ? that be an important question that have come up a number of time this week . my hon . friend will know that we have already disburse the first two tranche under the extraordinary revenue acceleration scheme , which be make a tangible difference to Ukraine right now . we have put £ 2 . 26 billion into the scheme , and I again thank colleague for ensure the swift passage of that measure . we be resolute in that support . we be continue to explore all other lawful option . we be clear — at least , the majority of party in this House be — that Russia need to pay for the damage it have cause , but the most impact will be feel if we can work with partner and in collaboration with other . I thank the Minister for his answer and for return to the Chamber within 24 hour of his comment about russian sanction yesterday . I read an interesting article on financial sanction that highlight the alleged loophole that be enable sale and transfer of fund through estate agent , property management and so on . can the Minister outline whether the Department ' s approach will also deal with those UK citizen who may be enable russian asset to be divert and therefore the circumvention of sanction , which be right and proper ? the hon . Gentleman will know that there be significant civil and criminal penalty for the evasion of sanction . if he or any other Member of the House have any evidence of that , I hope that they would share that with we and the relevant authority , and we be look at a single reporting point for people to do that . he can be assure that we look at every way in which people be try to circumvent the sanction regime . we can not have London , the UK or our british family be a place for those who enable this type of activity . we be resolute and commit to crack down on it . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . it be fairly obvious that these sanction be essential in deter the kind of behaviour and activity that we do not want to see internationally . the Foreign Secretary have speak about introduce sanction against those involve in smuggling gang and those who cause irregular migration to the UK . the Minister make reference to it in his statement , too . will he update the House on when we can expect to see such sanction take effect ? will he also comment on their effectiveness in deal with and defeat the criminal smuggling gang ? this Government have be clear that we will take every measure possible to crack down on irregular migration and those who facilitate the cruel trade in human being , traffic they across continent and country . that be one of the reason we be introduce the new regime . we will be bring forward the legislation in due course , and at that time we will be able to discuss the exact detail of the proposal ; we aim to bring that forward as soon as possible so that we can start take action . that be just one of the measure we be take , and I regularly engage with european and other partner to deal with the whole chain of smuggling gang and illegal migration . that be exactly what the Prime Minister will be set out in his visit to Albania . the final question go to the ever - patient Chris Vince . I thank the Minister for his statement . listen to comment from across the House , I be remind of a conversation I have this week with one of my constituent , Anne Strike , who be a victim of polio ; she raise her concern about the recent case of polio find in conflict zone . I know how important resident of Harlow see it to tackle breach of UK - impose sanction . the Minister have touch on this a bit already , but will he tell I what progress we have see on enforcement measure in recent month ? I be delighted that the resident of Harlow not only have my hon . friend as an MP , but be interested in see these measure be effect . I think that be share across the United Kingdom : people want to see these measure work . I have give a number of example , but I will give he another . the Department for Transport have detain four transport asset under the russian sanction regulation : one helicopter , two private jet and one super - yacht , total more than £ 80 million . I hope the House can see today just how serious we , our enforcement agency and all our Departments be . it be fantastic to be work in a team across Government on this issue . I again pay tribute to the fantastic official , not only in the Departments but in our enforcement agency . they bring the pressure to bear on those who seek to evade or divert from our sanction regime . safeguard Vulnerable Claimants Work and Pensions Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Work and Pensions Committee . Debbie Abrahams will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech — hopefully , people understand the difference between those two thing . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Chair of the Committee , not the relevant Government Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for I to make this statement to the House , which mark the publication of the first report of this Parliament , " safeguard Vulnerable Claimants " . the inquiry that lead to this report be first launch in 2023 by our predecessor Committee under the stewardship of the former Chair , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , who be now the Minister for Social Security and Disability . I pay tribute to he for both initiate and support the inquiry . we be not able to conclude the inquiry before the general election last year , so when I be elect as Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee last September , it be a priority to bring it to a conclusion . I be pleased that the new member of the Committee agree , and I thank they for their support . I also thank the member of the previous Committee , who contribute to the thinking behind some of our recommendation . I want especially to thank the Committee staff — some of the unsung hero in this place . from the previous Committee , I thank Danielle Nash and particularly Sarah Dixon . from the current Committee , I thank John - Paul Flaherty and especially Alexandra Ming . I also thank everyone who contribute to the report — the many people and organisation who submit write and oral evidence , and who take part in roundtable and survey . finally , I wish to mention all the people who have not be treat or support as they should have be by the Department for Work and Pensions . ultimately , this report be for they and try to ensure that other do not have to endure what they do . the Department for Work and Pensions be responsible for the delivery of essential service to million of people each year . that include some of the most vulnerable people in society , who rely on benefit — or , as I prefer to call it , social security support — as their main source of income . our predecessor Committee open the inquiry on 23 July 2023 , primarily in response to concern that inadequate safeguarding practice in DWP have contribute to the death of claimant , include through suicide and starvation . I first become aware of these appalling fact over 10 year ago , when the first Work and Pensions Committee on which I serve undertake an inquiry into sanction and the case of David Clapson come to light . David be a veteran who die after be sanction , which , for the uninitiated , mean that his financial support be stop . he could not pay for power , and the insulin in his fridge no long work . the case keep come . Errol Graham , who have serious mental illness , have his employment and support allowance incorrectly stop . he starve to death , and his emaciated body be find in his flat . Philippa Day , a young mum with mental health issue who rely on the personal independence payment , take her own life . I will never forget hear the recording of Philippa phone DWP and plead for her money not to be stop . there have also be the case of Kevin Gale , Michael o ' Sullivan , Alexander Boamah , Faiza Hassan Ahmed , Emma Day , Terence Talbot , Nazerine Anderson , Afolabi Ojerinde , Richard Brookes — [ interruption . ] Ms Abrahams , would you like a sip of water before you continue ? yes , I would be very grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you . not at all . that be just the intervention that I need . there have also be the case of Jodey Whiting , Mark Wood and many , many other . our report recognise the significance of every death and harm experience by claimant , and the impact of these case on their love one . we know that 40 death and 13 serious harm of claimant be investigate by the Department in 2023 - 24 alone as part of its internal process review , but in common with the National Audit Office ' s 2020 report , we believe that the actual number be much high . we hear evidence that the process of access DWP support , and some DWP policy themselves , can create or exacerbate exist vulnerability . for example , sanction or the threat of sanction can lead to material deprivation , stress , and the deterioration of physical and mental health . in some case , the experience of engage with the system and the process have be so difficult and distressing that it have contribute to claimant decide to take their own life . some of the most serious case of harm — where a coroner ' s inquest have find that DWP contribute to a claimant ' s death — have result in prevention of future death report . since 2010 , DWP have be issue with 10 prevention of future death report relate specifically to the death of benefit claimant . the fact that the Equality and Human Rights Commission issue a section 23 notice on the DWP for potential discrimination against disabled people in 2022 , and the investigation that be subsequently launch last year after the failure to reach an agreement , add to the evidence that the Work and Pensions Committee collect on the DWP ' s inadequate approach to safeguarding . the inquiry set out to examine the support that the Department provide to vulnerable claimant , how it have learn from mistake and failure , and what need to change . the new Committee agree to reopen the inquiry on 30 October 2024 . before I turn to the finding and recommendation of the report , I should acknowledge that in the " pathway to work " Green Paper , publish in March , the Government say they be consult " on a new DWP safeguarding approach to make it clear what the department and its staff be expect to do in order to safeguard the public . " I welcome that , and I be hearten by the Secretary of State ' s evidence to the Committee last November . our principal recommendation be for a statutory safeguarding duty to be place on the DWP to protect claimant . although the Secretary of State would be accountable for this duty , reflect the leadership need to drive these change , it would make safeguarding in the DWP everyone ' s business : at all level of the organisation and at all stage of policy development and implementation . the duty would include the proactive consideration of the safeguarding need of claimant , the ability to refer vulnerable individual to other agency with a duty of care , and , again , the proactive consideration of the impact of key policy and legislation on the health and wellbeing of claimant before they be implement . the need for a new legal obligation be clear . the current approach to safeguarding in DWP have be describe as " piecemeal and lack coherence " , and the Committee agree . for that reason , the report call for a comprehensive , system - base approach to safeguard that integrate into every stage of policy development , implementation and review . the approach must involve everyone in the DWP to ensure that safeguarding become a fundamental part of the Department ' s culture . we see a new statutory duty as the cornerstone of a big cultural shift that be need in the DWP . for too long , the focus have be on cost cutting , often at the expense of provide genuine support . that approach have lead to a system in which claimant feel undeserving of support and fearful of the very Department that be mean to assist they . the necessary cultural shift must be drive from the top down , with Ministers and senior official lead the way . a statutory safeguarding duty would help to focus mind , improve accountability and ensure that safeguarding become everybody ' s business in the DWP . the need for deep - root cultural change in the Department can not be overstate . the process of engage with the DWP often lead to mental distress for claimant . this distress be compound by a lack of trust in the system , drive by continual cost - cut measure and an unhelpful media narrative . to rebuild trust , the DWP must prioritise safeguarding and support over cost cutting , and this mean create a system that not only help people to find sustainable work , but compassionately support those who may never work . the report also emphasise the importance of learn from past mistake . the Department have conduct a number of ipr , but the full scale of harm be much high . the ongoing investigation by the Equality and Human Rights Commission into the Department ' s treatment of disabled people and those with long - term mental health condition underscore the need for transparency and accountability . in addition to the statutory duty , the report make a number of other important recommendation , which I will go through quickly . as I have mention , it be recommend that all significant new policy be analyse by the Department ' s chief medical adviser ' s team . currently , such assessment be not routinely carry out , lead to policy that may inadvertently harm claimant or exacerbate exist vulnerability . by make these assessment a standard part of policy development , we hope to ensure that the impact of policy on the health and wellbeing of claimant be consider and harm mitigate . the report stress the importance of have a robust , clear and accessible complaint procedure to prevent failure recur . as I have state , the true scale of death and harm be not know . the report call for systematic recording and publication of all case of serious harm and death involve claimant . the Department should commit to publish this information annually to aid transparency . the report also recommend improve transparency in the process use to learn from serious mistake and failure , and the introduction of an independent body — the Department should not mark its own homework — to investigate serious harm . on define and identify vulnerability , the Department ' s current approach be see as flexible , lack in clarity and consistency . the report call for a formalise definition of vulnerability that be clearly communicate in public - face document . it also recommend add victim of abuse to the additional support area in universal credit , and implement proactive measure to identify and support vulnerable claimant . ensure that vulnerable people can access the benefit they be entitle to be crucial for deliver equitable welfare provision . the removal of the help to claim face - to - face service have make it more difficult for some individual to apply for universal credit . the report recommend that the DWP ensure that jobcentre provide thorough support , and that detailed information about additional support be proactively offer to claimant . in that regard I do give praise , because there be so many good people in the Department , such as the advanced customer support senior leader , who be integral to help frontline DWP staff . I praise those staff , and we need more of they . effective communication and make sure that people be aware of what support they can access be also important , and we need more of it . that also apply to training and capacity building for frontline staff , which need to happen to achieve the cultural change we need . finally , collaboration with other agency need to be a statutory responsibility , and there need to be DWP membership of the safeguarding adult board . I be very grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . first , I pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend . she have be a persistent champion of safeguard vulnerable people in the system , and this report really emphasise that . I be surprised that the Committee do not recommend the removal of conditionality , because that be a serious lead into harm for so many people . in anticipation of the pathway to work legislation come before this House , I think the report make very sobering reading and raise serious concern about safeguarding and the accountability of that safeguarding . I would pick out the recommendation about the chief medical adviser ' s assessment . currently , that be private advice to Ministers . what step do my hon . friend believe can be take so the House can be supply with the full evidence base it need to make informed choice , not least because policy such as pathway to work will place many people at serious risk , include serious risk to their life ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . on the pathway to work Green Paper , one of our recommendation be that any analysis undertake by the CMA ' s team should be publish and make available . more generally , we also ask that analysis of the impact of key policy and legislation on the health and wellbeing of claimant be consider beforehand and respond to appropriately . do the hon . Lady believe that the safety of very vulnerable claimant would be improve if there be a system within the DWP for flag they as vulnerable and ensure , so far as it be practically possible , that they always deal with the same person , who might be specifically qualified to look after people with such vulnerability ? the right hon . Member make an excellent point . there be some system , but the inquiry find that they be very fragmented and a little too ad hoc . this be about make a coherent case that this be everybody ' s business . yes , we should be proactively identify and assess the vulnerability of claimant when they present , and we should be able to signpost they to other agency that may , for example , have a statutory duty of care . this report be both important and timely , and I be proud to be a member of the Committee that have publish it today . it be good to hear the Minister recognise during the inquiry that the culture of the Department need to change and that safeguarding must be at the heart of this . a duty to report safeguard concern be second nature to I . as a teacher , I have a clear understanding of the safeguarding duty expect of I , and rightly so . the safeguarding of vulnerable adult be just as important , so this need to be second nature to those at the DWP . do my hon . friend agree that we must see clear action from the Government to create the more compassionate system that we need to make this a reality ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and thank she for all that she have do since become a member of the Select Committee . I wholeheartedly agree with everything she say , and I do hope that the Government response come soon rather than later . I thank my hon . friend for what be a very distressing statement . how might the plan for safeguard DWP claimant apply to current Government policy ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , this be really important . the bedrock of the report be that safeguard need to be integrate into policy development at all stage and at all level of the organisation , and before policy and legislation be implement , so it be absolutely key to the legislation that be be consider and that will be go through the House . I thank my hon . friend for her statement , and it be a pleasure to serve under her chairship on the Select Committee . this report be sober reading , and the evidence we take be often heartbreaking . do she agree that , over and above the report ' s specific procedural recommendation , the overarch theme from everything we hear be that there need to be a cultural change in the Department that will ensure reflective practice , curiosity and sharing of good practice , with a culture drive by compassion for the most vulnerable people in our country ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who be my vice - Chair on the Committee , and I thank she for all that she do . the culture be one of the key thing , and both the statutory duty and make sure we have a system - base approach to safeguarding be absolutely key . I will never forget a quote from one of our witness , who have live experience of use the system , when she say she feel that " a system that be mean to wrap its arm around we be strangle we " . that just should not happen in this country , and with such an important Department . I know that the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) take her work incredibly seriously , and we could see the emotion when she deliver her statement . Backbench Business Solar Farms I beg to move , that this House have consider solar farm . I must first inform the House that my husband be a farmer and agricultural contractor . I be very grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for allow I time for a debate on large - scale solar farm . there be some thing that member across the House can agree on : we all want cheap and reliable energy , we all want food security and affordable food price , and we want to live sustainably and to protect our natural surrounding . whether or not we agree on how we should achieve those goal , I think we can at least agree that these be desirable aim , so why be the issue seemingly so controversial ? it be controversial because it be doubtful that large - scale solar farm on prime agricultural land can achieve any of those aim . first , how good be solar panel ? in principle , solar energy be green , but the reality be murky . the journey of a solar panel , from raw material to installation , be far from carbon neutral . the production process demand substantial energy , often source from fossil fuel . it require the mining of silver and zinc . it require energy to produce the intense heat need to melt quartz for polysilicon , and the transportation of component and finish panel across vast distance by diesel - power truck , train and ship . what happen when the panel reach the end of their lifespan ? recycling should be the obvious answer , yet they be notoriously difficult to recycle . a constituent of mine who dedicate their master ' s research to this issue find that most solar panel , once they finish their lifecycle , can not currently be effectively recycle . solar energy be not morally clean either . Most solar panel sell in the UK — an astonishing 97 % — contain material source from place where there be concern about force labour . Baroness May of Maidenhead , the former Prime Minister , do so much to champion the cause of combat modern slavery during her tenure , and we must not be complicit in human right abuse in business supply chain . the Government ' s decision to u - turn yesterday on the Lords message on the great british Energy Bill be welcome , but it be shameful that it come only after so much pressure . even if the challenge with production , transportation and recycling could be resolve , there be concern about whether solar energy be the right option for the UK ' s energy production at all . solar energy be most effective in sunny place , where there be high demand for energy when it be sunny . but in the UK the high energy demand occur when it be cold and dark . that mean energy must be store , lead to the need for large battery storage system , which bring their own problem — we would require another debate just to discuss those . in fact , the UK be rank as second to last on a list of 240 country in term of its suitability for photovoltaic electricity production . there be a further point about suitability . my hon . friend , as a Lincolnshire MP , will know that our county produce a hugely disproportionate amount of the nation ' s food . compromise food production put food security at risk , because the solar farm , which be industrial development , use up land that could otherwise feed the nation . my right hon . friend be of course right , as usual , and I will address that point in more detail later in my speech . even if we could resolve all those production , recycling and transportation issue , and so accept that solar be viable for the UK , ground - mount solar project be not the right approach . panel instal so far be relatively inefficient . despite a currently instal capacity of 17 . 8 GW , the total output last year be less than 10 % of that . our current approach be also centre around technology that be outdate . if member can cast their mind back to 1984 , when the first Apple Mac computer be put on the market , and then look today at the present advance in technology , they will see that technology have evolve at a rapid pace . solar panel plan for field today be already be supersede by clean , more efficient technology that do not need farmland . researcher in Japan be develop next - generation panel make from iodine . they be flexible and 20 time thin than exist panel . they would make it realistic to build solar installation on urban infrastructure such as stadium , airport and office building . do the hon . Lady agree that solar energy generation be a key step stone on our pathway towards a green economy and to reach net zero , for those of we in this House who still believe in it ? however , where possible , we should not take up agricultural land . I be very pleased to say that my office be support Farmer Dibble in my constituency , who be seek to prevent solar panel be put over some 200 acre of his farm . we should instead shine a little sunlight on the idea of put solar panel on the roof of all new building , as suggest by my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) . I agree wholeheartedly that we should not use our good agricultural farmland for solar panel . the previous Government take step to establish a £ 50 million fund to incentivise rooftop installation on farm building . that be the right measure to maximise the efficient use of land . this government ' s approach , by contrast , be to concentrate ground - mount solar on prime agricultural land . that be folly in the high degree . there be 600 , 000 acre of unused south - face industrial rooftop across this country . we should use those before we even consider industrialise our countryside ; industrialise it come with consequence . I will come back to farming in a moment , but first we should consider the impact on the wide community . access to green space and exercise be good for wellbee . imagine for a moment walk your dog not alongside a hedgerow , but between two 3 . 5 metre - high metal fence with CCTV camera on they . how many of we would prefer to run past mile of 4 metre - high solar panel than roll british countryside ? I listen carefully to my constituent and have conduct survey in the affected area . I have receive over 2 , 000 handwritten response to my solar farm survey , many of which contain page of heartfelt comment from people who be deeply worried about the disproportionate number of application for massive solar project in our area . the beautiful village of Stowe - by - Chartley in my constituency will be almost ring by solar panel . do my hon . friend think that the Planning Inspectorate need to consider , when make decision , the cumulative impact of multiple development on community ? my right hon . friend be right . I will come on to the cumulative effect later in my speech . he will recall that the previous Government bring in measure to ensure that happen , but it do not seem to be happen . in my survey , 91 % of respondent be concern about the enormous scale of proposal , and 73 % be concern about the use of productive farmland . the scale of the propose development be really difficult to describe . I bring to the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , map , with overlay , of area with which he be familiar . he see the problem , and to his credit , he take the action that I have describe . if the Minister be prepared to meet I , I would like to provide he with similar map , so that he can see for himself the scale of these potential development . the development go on for mile . as my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) say , they encircle village , prevent natural growth and home - building over time . they even encircle individual home . one isolate rural home in my constituency may soon find itself surround by solar panel on all side , like the hole in the centre of a miserable glass doughnut . such be the wonderful nature of my constituent that the prime concern that they have express to I be not for themselves , their view or their wellbeing , but for the security of the country — specifically , food security . let we be very clear that use our good farmland for solar put we at risk , in a volatile world , of be unable to feed our citizen . the good and most versatile land be define as land in band 1 , 2 , and 3a , although land in 3b be a valuable and entirely useable resource for farmer . in Lincolnshire , 99 . 1 % of solar installation area cover land in the good and most versatile land category . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . one issue not normally consider be the reinstatement provision after a solar farm have be implement . a vast quantity of our prime agricultural land be be take out of production , generally for a term of 20 to 25 year . should not consideration be give to the state of the organic matter , the soil and the potential yield of that land after the term of 25 year or long have end , and the negative impact on our food production ? my hon . friend be right , but I do not believe that the land will ever be return to farmland , and many of my constituent feel the same . it be worth note that 99 . 1 % of solar installation cover the good and most versatile land , but test procure by the developer appear to suggest that soil be of poor quality than map from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and local knowledge would have predict . will the Minister ensure that where soil testing be do , the result be independently verify ? as my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) say , Lincolnshire be the nation ' s breadbasket , and produce 30 % of the UK ' s vegetable . the land in the county be also more productive than the UK average ; the wheat harvest there , over the difficult past five year , be 25 % above the UK average , and it be much more productive than global average . this be the land that we can least afford to lose . do my hon . friend agree that we face a perfect storm of condition ? there be not just a widespread societal push towards net zero , but , with change to agricultural property relief , a real risk that solar will become the new cash crop , at the expense of valuable food production , which be as essential as energy security . my hon . friend be right . as a farmer ' s wife , I understand that farmer be be put under a lot of pressure by the various change that this Government have make to taxation on cab pick - up , inheritance tax , national insurance and much more . displace our farmland leave we reliant on import , which use more land , may have be produce to poor standard , and require we to factor in transport emission . the previous Government take action by publish planning guidance that make it clear that the good and most versatile land should not be develop where alternative be available — and those alternative be available . I be pleased to have sign my name to new clause 47 to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which seek to prohibit solar development on high - quality land , and I urge the Government to support it . let we not forget the tenant farmer , who be often on multi - generational tenancy . they suddenly find their whole family without home or livelihood . a 2023 report for the Welsh Government on the impact of solar panel on agricultural land find that solar site risk cause soil compaction and structural damage , which in some case may be permanent . this mean that agriculture will suffer , even after the somewhat hypothetical end of these solar scheme . I also ask the Government to give due consideration to the three RAF basis local to my constituency : RAF Waddington , RAF Cranwell and RAF Digby . Glint and glare from reflective panel will cause problem for pilot fly over these area . our new pilot undergo basic training at Cranwell , and RAF Waddington be home to the Red Arrows . it be a huge joy for I and many of my constituent to watch our nation ' s iconic display team practise the loop - the - loop and roll into turn at high speed , but the mile and mile of align panel create glint and glare could lead to disaster . do the hon . Lady accept that pilot already seem to manage to fly throughout our nation and many other , despite there be widespread solar panel in , for instance , Spain , where there be more sunshine ? it seem unlikely that they will be unable to manage in her constituency . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . I wonder if the average jumbo jet fly into Heathrow do a loop - the - loop on its way in . RAF Digby be the headquarters of the joint cyber and electromagnetic activity group . any interference with that part of the defence estate could cause significant harm . my constituency of Sleaford and North Hykeham face an acute burden from the most high - impact solar scheme . colleague will know that project with a capacity of more than 50 MW be class as nationally significant infrastructure project . four of these large - scale scheme be propose for my constituency , at Springwell , Fosse Green , Leoda and Beacon Fen . their combine size be 9 , 340 acre . for context , that land could support graze for more than 74 , 000 sheep , produce 23 . 5 million loaf of bread and more than 700 million Weetabix . a fifth project , just outside my constituency — propose by a Labour donor — be recently approve by the Secretary of State . what assurance can minister give my constituent that the Department be assess cumulative impact appropriately ? we often hear that no more than 1 % of land will be use for solar panel . however , as we have see in my constituency , the application for one giant solar farm lead to a proposal for a new substation to accommodate it , which in turn lead to a deluge of further giant solar project and battery storage application . the cumulative effect will be to destroy the area . with nearly 7 % of land in my constituency propose to be turn over to solar farm , 9 % of the land in the neighbouring constituency , represent by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , and 5 % of the land in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , we can clearly see the clustering of application on our good farmland . my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) have the Mallard Pass solar farm in her constituency . I congratulate she on the birth of her child recently , which prevent she from be here ; I know that this subject be a big concern for she . indeed , it be a concern for many of we , include my right hon . friend the Members for Newark , for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , and for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) . as member of the shadow Cabinet , protocol prevent they from speak in the debate , but I know that they would have wish to , and will keep campaign . the national policy statement say that installation should , where possible , use " suitable previously develop land , brownfield land , contaminate land and industrial land . " where farmland must be use , it note that " poor quality land should be prefer to high quality land avoid the use of ' best and most versatile ' agricultural land where possible . " sadly , the evidence so far suggest that the Energy Secretary be so ideologically wed to solar project that he have not appreciate the damage that giant solar project be cause to agricultural land . this debate will hopefully demonstrate that cover our good farmland with massive solar project would be irreversibly damaging to the nation . I urge the Minister to listen to I , my fellow mps and fellow citizen before it be too late . rise — order . member can see that a number of people wish to contribute , so there will be a time limit of four minute . thank you for call I so early on , Madam Deputy Speaker , at the sunrise of the debate . I believe there be not only a climate and biodiversity emergency , but real insecurity in our energy market . that be why I absolutely back the Government ' s plan to triple our solar capacity and reach the clean power target by 2030 . we need to look at the whole gamut of renewable energy out there , include tidal — although perhaps not so much in Bedfordshire — wind and solar power . I be very lucky that my constituency be home to the joint tall wind turbine in the country , an honour I share with my right hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) . when I visit , I suggest that we put a Union flag on top of the one in my constituency so that it would be the tall , but there be no agreement to that — never mind . my constituency be also home to a solar farm in Eggington , as the Minister know , because he visit it with I . it produce enough power for 2 , 000 home every year . what be interesting be that as well as produce that clean , green power , it retain an agricultural use ; as the Minister may remember , there be also sheep graze between the solar panel , nibble at the grass . just to be clear , this be not about what , but where . of course it be important that we have a diverse energy mix , but the hon . Lady must know that if we put solar panel on the good - quality agricultural land , we will have to import more food and extend supply chain , and so damage the environment . I think we need a mix , but we can not rule out use solar panel on large chunk of land . when the Minister come along to visit our solar farm in Eggington , he not only meet the sheep , but see that some of the land around the panel have be transform into wildflower meadow . in my constituency , AW Group — the people with the turbine — be branch out into solar . in the next couple of month , it will build another solar array and again put in wildflower meadow . those meadow be so important for biodiversity in our country , as our pollinator and other insect face real problem . I learn on my visit that solar farm can also be useful to some of our ground - nest bird , which find shelter and sanctuary underneath the solar panel . in essence , I just want to say that I really welcome what the Government be do . I welcome what they do yesterday ; the new rule make it easy for some of the small amount of power generate from solar panel to be link to our grid . I urge the Minister to go full steam ahead on this , and to make sure that our solar industry have a really bright future in this time of biodiversity and climate emergency . to understand this Government ' s approach to solar farm , one should start by re - read the labour manifesto — page 59 of the labour manifesto to be more precise . I know that it be only a year ago , but in its solemn promise to the british people , it say : " labour recognise that food security be national security . that be why we will champion british farming " . that may now seem a long time ago , because a succession of announcement from this Government have make it clear that there be no commitment to farming or to food security . indeed , that apply to many of their other commitment — smash the gang , council tax bill will not go up , or energy bill will come down . on food security and its importance to national security it be clear that it be a fake promise . indeed , there be an irony here , because we still have the ongoing covid inquiry . I be Chief Secretary to the Treasury at the time of covid , and it be clear to I that at a time of national crisis , value for money change ; there be compete demand across nation for scarce resource . I assure Members that , at such a crisis point , food security become an issue of national security , which be why the carelessness of the current Government on their manifesto commitment matter so much . my right hon . friend make a brilliant point . do he also recognise that the way that this Government have set up the arrangement — they be guarantee 10 % to 20 % return on investment on these farm — be in effect bribe farmer to move away from farming ? indeed , the Government be create an incentive to do the exact opposite of own manifesto pledge , which be why I start with that point . let I come on to the second place where we can see Labour ' s approach — in the Cabinet . of course , we can not witness the Cabinet in action at first hand , but it be very clear — certainly to someone who have have the good fortune to sit in Cabinet — how marginalise the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have become . we see the Prime Minister announce thing such as the compulsory purchase of farmland in order to support infrastructure scheme ; we see the former labour leader , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , make a whole raft of decision in his first few week of office on massive solar farm , override defra ; we see the Deputy Prime Minister ride roughshod over the DEFRA Secretary of State on housing scheme ; and we see the Chancellor phone official at DEFRA the night before to say that the sustainable farming incentive have be reduce so quickly that the Government have now have to concede in a legal case that their approach be wrong and allow a further 3 , 000 farm application to proceed — and that be without any clear commitment in this area . when I warn at the election about Labour ' s farm tax , the now DEFRA Secretary of State say that it be complete nonsense . well , we have see the Government introduce that tax and watch while the Treasury ride roughshod over the Department . we have a Department that be completely sideline in the government and fail to speak up not just for food security and farming , but for the very commitment that be make in the labour manifesto . we see a theme run across a whole range of policy announcement that show the instinct , the value and the priority of this Government , who always believe that top - down know well . they do not believe in localism . the implication for solar farm can be see in how the delivery of the policy be happen on the ground . we be see cluster in the east of England , as my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) would point out , in area of the good food production . we be see a gaming of the system , where the developer bring in consultant to grade the land in way that sit at odd with historic knowledge of the value of that land . I be delighted to endorse everything that my right hon . friend and neighbour have say about national economic resilience . the point about grade land be critical . to be fair to the Government , they have say that land at grade 1 , 2 and 3a at least should be protect , but the problem be that the solar developer deliberately attempt to distort those distinction by regrade land use organisation that be part of their own corporation . my right hon . friend be completely right ; the issue be hide in plain sight . when I be in the government and seek to strengthen the protection for farmland , change to the guidance be make , include bring forward independent certification for agricultural land classification in soil survey . we know at a constituency level that malpractice be go on and be not be challenge . the point be that that be not by accident . this be not an error of delivery . this be by design , and we can see that design in the raft of decision make by the Energy Secretary in his very first week in office . indeed , close to our constituency , just near to Cambridge , there be an important announcement on a mega farm , which be make by the new Secretary of State against official advice . this matter because it be relate to wide trust in our politic . a clear commitment be give to rural community by Labour in its manifesto that be be break . I will close , conscious that many colleague want to participate in this debate , with this comment for Labour Back Benchers . it may be that Nos . 10 and 11 have simply decide that , with their majority , they can afford to sacrifice a number of their rural mp who have not be expect to win the election , and it may by that they decide that those mp be not essential , but it be baffle that there be so much silence . these mp be vote for measure that be have such a harmful effect in rural constituency , and those measure be so short term that they be put our food security , which do indeed matter to our national security , at risk . I be pleased to follow the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , as he will find out shortly . I strongly support this Government ' s clean energy mission , and I want this country to be a clean energy superpower . I want to see more wind , tidal , hydroelectric power and , as I will say later , nuclear . for the environment , more renewable energy mean less air pollution , low greenhouse gas and , over time , low flooding risk — an issue that be very significant in my constituency — and a more stable climate . for the economy , more renewable energy will mean low energy price for household and business , because we will not be dependent on gas price that be set by the global energy market . as we see after the invasion of Ukraine and the rocket energy price that follow , we have no control over the global price . for national security , more renewable will deliver energy independence , because , instead of our country import fossil fuel from hostile authoritarian regime , we can produce more of our own energy at home . tragically , these point have be lose on the conservative party , which have give up on be ambitious about tackle climate change . it simply do not believe that this country , the birthplace of the industrial revolution , have the will or the ability to build the world ' s strong green economy . reform ' s policy seem to support the surrendering of control of our energy price to the global market , give its commitment to fast - track oil and gas development in the North sea and abolish subsidy for renewable energy . my constituency be prove to be a popular place for plan solar farm development , primarily because of the above average number of sunshine hour that we have and our relatively flat land . currently we have five solar farm project in my constituency which , if they progress , would qualify for nationally significant infrastructure project status . there be a few small one as well . we want to play our part in Folkestone and Hythe in support this nation ' s clean energy mission , and I believe that we should be do that in two way : first , by bring back nuclear energy generation at Dungeness ; and , secondly , by take our fair share of solar development . I be glad that the Government have commit to nuclear as part of our energy mix . the hon . Gentleman say that he have five such proposal in his constituency . do he support all five of those proposal in Folkstone and Hythe ? as I will come on to say , there be an issue about each area take its fair share of development . it be absolutely key that we support the Government ' s clean energy mission and take our fair share , but we need to make sure that it be a fair share . rise — rise — I will not take any further intervention at this stage . [ interruption . ] member will hear what I come on to say . we have a decommission nuclear power station in Folkestone and Hythe , and I strongly believe that it should be bring back for energy generation . the site have the right location , with proximity to the grid , and a local skill base for these technology , such as advanced modular reactor . I be grateful to Lord Hunt , the Minister responsible for nuclear energy , for his continued engagement on this issue , but I urge the Government to move fast to create the condition for advanced modular reactor and other new technology to become a reality . on solar , Folkestone and Hythe must play our part in deliver the Government ' s clean energy mission , but it should not come at the expense of the fundamental character and beauty of the rural community . People visit Romney Marsh for its tranquillity and beautiful landscape . we must take our fair share of solar development to support the Government ' s clean energy mission , but cover a large area of Romney Marsh with multiple development will affect the character of the area . one of the project would occupy 2 . 3 square mile of countryside , and there be four more in the pipeline . it be entirely consistent to support the Government ' s mission and accept our fair share while say that there need to be principle limitation and a reasonable amount of development . that be the right position to take . solar farm need to be evenly spread across the country . the clean energy mission be a national endeavour , and we can not have one community in Romney Marsh face it on their own . [ interruption . ] if any hon . member want to intervene and make legitimate point , they be free to do so . I think the hon . member be make part of the point that I be try to make in my speech . some 7 % of my constituency be the subject of solar panel application . do he agree that that be an obscene amount of solar panel to put on our good quality farmland ? as I say , the whole country need to play its part in support the clean energy mission , but there need to be a fair - share principle . if all the area of the country with similar feature to my constituency play their part , there would be less of an impact in particular area . it be an entirely fair balance to strike . the Conservatives seem to be wed to the idea that net zero be something we should not aim for , but they have absolutely no answer as to how we solve the climate crisis . it might be worth make the point that only 10 % of solar application end up be build . the cumulative number of application be completely irrelevant ; what matter be the number that be actually build on the land , so while 7 % of a constituency may be cover by application , that be not a reflection of the percentage that will be build on . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . as a final point , there be real concern about how ethical solar panel supply chain be . it be so important that we have robust mechanism to ensure — order . I have no choice but to impose a three - minute time limit on speech after the Father of the House . I agree with the hon . and learn Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) ; let we all play our fair share — and I will support he on Romney Marsh if he support I on Gainsborough . that be a fair deal . the distribution of solar farm across the country be , as have be make clear , highly uneven . of the 650 parliamentary constituency , 310 have more than 0 . 1 % of land take up by solar development , while 151 have more than 0 . 6 % and 96 have more than 1 % . the five most affected constituency be Newark , with 8 . 85 % of land take up by solar farm , Sleaford and North Hykeham with 6 . 95 % , Newport East with 5 . 12 % , my own belove Gainsborough with 5 . 08 % , and Selby with 4 . 22 % . I say to the hon . and learn Member for Folkestone and Hythe that this be a debate not about solar farm or green energy but the sheer concentration of solar farm in some part of England . that concentration be ironically on some of the good land for grow . that be the problem . there seem to be a correlation between the most productive farmland and the concentration of solar application . my hon . friend be absolutely right . will the right hon . member give way ? I will make some progress and give way in a moment — I must be fair to other people . there be solar scheme totalling 13 , 000 acre within a 6 - mile radius of the small town of Gainsborough . Madam Deputy Speaker , can I please use a visual aid here ? this map show load of solar farm — [ Laughter . ] I think I get away with it ! the Secretary of State approve these project immediately ; they go through his desk within a week . the cumulative effect of these solar installation be colossal in one small area , with numerous site have be propose and accept in Lincolnshire . I want to say something to the Minister . can he concentrate on what I be say for a moment , because this be terribly important ? I be listen . we be not argue against solar farm . all we be beg the Minister to do be take they together . we can not have all these separate public inquiry . we have to look at the 13 , 000 acre all over Gainsborough . be that not a fair point ? otherwise , it be totally unfair on one particular area . that be the only point we be make . this be all do on a cheat — a so - call nationally significant infrastructure project , which be a device bring in by Tony Blair for nuclear power station and that sort of installation . the Government be bypass local democracy . that be what be so unfair , and it be why people feel disenfranchised in certain part of England . I agree that if the Government distribute solar farm fairly all over the country , as the hon . and learn Member for Folkestone and Hythe say , there would be no argument , but the fact be that they be concentrate they so much in one small area of England . that be the argument . I would just point out that the reason we get that concentration : grid capacity . the grid be constrain in the area where there be the high level of demand . it be unconstrained in the area where we have the least amount of demand , which be rural area . that be why we keep get application there . if we upgrade the grid , we will not have that problem . that lead I to the point of whether solar power be really an efficient way of achieve green energy . it be land - intensive , with 200 time more land need compare with gas , and it be inefficient during winter or cloudy period . there be doubt about the carbon footprint . there be no clear evidence that energy generation over a 15 - year panel lifespan justify the embody energy use in panel production — and we be never give reassurance on that point . there be also environmental and safety issue . place battery energy storage system in each field raise safety risk due to potential thermal runaway incident . there be inadequate planning to provide water for firefighting in these field . there be economic and community concern — for instance , a negative effect on local tourism of the visual impact , and the lack of community benefit from large - scale solar project compare with traditional local decision making — and I again make the national infrastructure point . there be social and ethical concern about possible connection between project stakeholder and force labour in China , and we would like reassurance from the Minister in that regard . I ask he about that yesterday in the Chamber . I know we have achieve something with great British Energy , but in this case we be talk about private company , on which the concession that the Minister make yesterday will have no impact . there will be an impact on great British Energy ' s involvement if it can be prove that the solar panel be make with slave labour , but private company will be able to go directly ahead . I want to reply to the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) . solar installation will take over good agricultural land , which be vital for Lincolnshire ' s role as the breadbasket of England . some 15 % of regional farmland could be lose , undermine local agriculture , which be crucial for food security and sustainable farming . in conclusion , cover our countryside with solar energy installation be environmentally harmful , economically unsustainable , a threat to food security , and damage to local agriculture and tourism . local opposition be widespread and strong , and the harm outweigh the benefit . seek permission for these site via the use of nationally significant infrastructure project be an abuse of NSIPs and subvert local democracy . it be part of this net zero craze that provide poor global value for money . it cost the UK taxpayer billion , and the net effect be cancel out by minuscule increase in chinese emission . these application should be take in the round and , if necessary , refuse . last year , I get elect on a Labour manifesto that pledge to make Britain a clean energy superpower that will create job , cut bill , boost our energy security and reduce the carbon emission that be kill our planet . I have have so many conversation with people in West Bromwich who agree that it be a no - brainer . if we continue to rely on oil and gas from abroad , we will be at the mercy of spike in price , with the whim of foreign dictator affect the energy bill of ordinary family in Britain . our renewable energy from solar , wind and wave power be free . we have hear passionate argument from hon . member who be concerned about solar farm . as an MP from an industrial urban area , it be not my job to speak for mp represent rural community , but I do want to challenge the idea that solar energy be somehow a threat to our countryside . in fact , solar take up about 10 time less land than that give over to golf course . my dad be a big golf fan , so I be not attack the golf industry , but if solar be threaten our food security , be golf course not do the same ? Solar be also help to restore nature , accord to research by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and Cambridge University , which find that solar farm contain a great number of bird specie than the surround arable land . a few hon . member have ask why we do not just put solar on rooftop . the Government be also do that . the Black Country , which I represent , be a proud manufacturing area , and as we look out across West Bromwich and Oldbury , we can see huge number of factory and industrial roof . the hon . member refer to industrial activity . do she agree that the predominant industrial activity that solar support be far - eastern manufacturing of solar pv ? what would she say in response to Sir Richard Dearlove , the former head of MI6 , who say in January that by pursue this route we be in effect cede control over national security and resilience to foreign power ? the hon . Member and I have nearby constituency . the company in my constituency that put solar on their roof will see their energy bill reduce , and they could put more energy back into the grid . they think this will be a big benefit to their business . there be no formal estimate of the amount of factory roof in the Black Country , but to take a local example , William King , one of West Brom ' s long running metal processing business , have 29 , 000 square metre of warehousing facility — that be almost three hectare of rooftop that could be use to generate solar power . it have already make a start instal solar panel , and I hope that the 300 or so other manufacture business in my constituency will soon follow suit . light up the Black Country with solar will drive local growth , create new job , build new skill and power industry in our manufacturing heartland . there be still many challenge to the private sector make the most of the solar opportunity — many of which the Government be work to address — include upgrade the grid so that factory can give away excess energy to local school and deliver quick new grid connection . we also need to make the business rate system even more pro - solar . at the moment , if a business install solar panel on its roof and consume all that electricity itself , there should be no increase to the rateable value . however , local business have raise concern that if they generate excess energy through their solar panel and want to sell that back to the grid , their business rate may increase . that create a disincentive for company to install maximum number of solar panel and generate additional clean energy . I meet my hon . friend the Minister just last week , and we have a good discussion about the full range of option at our disposal to make rooftop solar the norm and not the exception . I be excited about what unleash the full potential of solar across the Black Country and Britain could mean . it will reduce our exposure to fossil fuel and their volatile price , end our dependence on international market and ultimately bring down household bill . across Britain , we be on the brink of a clean energy revolution . we should seize the opportunity to unleash the full potential of solar power across our country , include by light up the Black Country use our plentiful factory roof . the only less environmentally - friendly form of power generation than solar panel in the United Kingdom be the Drax power station , which be forest - feed . it be a complete myth to suggest that somehow there be no carbon price to be pay for solar farm . neither be they efficient : give the lack of sunlight in most of the United Kingdom , the amount of power feed into the grid from solar panel be minimal . we be talk about sacrifice acre of agricultural land — some of it have already go — to no useful purpose whatsoever . it be time that we grow up and recognise that . at business question this morning , I ask the Leader of the House if she would go to the Prime Minister and bang a few head together , because the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be not singe from the same song sheet . the argument be simply not join up . we can not go on sacrifice agricultural land — such as that surround the village of Hoath in my constituency , or the Minster marsh , or the land around Sandwich and in west Thanet — and still expect to have food sufficiency . we be talk about land that this summer be grow bread - make wheat but in two or three year will be grow house and solar panel . that be simply not compatible in term of policy . I urge the Minister to go away and think about this very carefully indeed , to take the message to the Secretary of State and to ensure that there be some join - up thinking before it be too late . I be afraid that 2030 be dead in the water , and it be time we recognise that . the way forward will be North sea gas and oil to bridge the gap between where we be now and small nuclear reactor . it be time that we recognise that and stop mess around with pie - in - the - sky scheme . I congratulate the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) on secure the debate , which be an important one for my constituent and indeed the whole county of Norfolk . we have see a sudden influx of solar farm application , which have become one of the most contentious and speak about issue locally . to be clear from the outset , I be not a nimby , or even a rural nimby as I have be refer to of late . I support the Government ' s growth agenda and welcome the much - need growth in my constituency . I be also not anti - solar or indeed anti - solar farm — I recognise the need for energy security and I support the net zero ambition — but we must approach these challenge and their solution pragmatically with due regard for local community and recognise the implication . that be why I be work cross - party with the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) in establish the Breckland solar alliance in response to a solar farm proposal that cut across both our constituency to ensure that the voice of our resident , business and stakeholder be hear and that party politic do not get in the way of such an important issue . I be listen with interest to what the hon . Member have to say , and I have some sympathy with it , but do he have any specific proposal for how we deal with the nationally significant infrastructure project approach , which completely overrule what he be talk about ? I encourage the right hon . member to let I get to the end of my speech , as I may answer his question . I will then be happy to have a conversation with he . the fact be that renewable energy project be not evenly distribute across the country . in Norfolk , our terrain be flat and quite sandy , so it be relatively easy to get thing into the ground . with the likelihood of increase pylon capacity , we be attractive to solar project and we be get more than our fair share of application for solar farm , which place increase burden on certain community . one of my particular concern about the influx of application be the impact on food security . all too often , agricultural land have become the default option for solar farm because it can be cheap than alternative when deploy at scale , not because that be the right social and environmental option . solar farm be not be site on just any old agricultural land , either ; they be be site disproportionately on well - quality farmland rather than on poor - quality land . there be three time more grade 5 agricultural land in the UK than grade 1 land , with grade 5 be the low quality land , as mention early , and grade 1 be the good , yet solar installation occupy 20 time more grade 1 land than grade 5 land . that can not be desirable , or indeed acceptable . I firmly believe that grade 2 agricultural land and above should be protect and prioritise for food production . the national planning policy framework consider grade 1 , 2 and 3a land as the " good and most versatile " land , and prioritise its protection . yet that prioritisation be clearly not influence in the proposal . will the hon . member give way ? I will not as I have limit time — apology . take the Droves solar farm application in my constituency . if approve , 20 % of the application site would cover grade 2 land , and about a third of the land to be use would be " good and most versatile " . we be already see long and hotter summer in Norfolk , and that add to the challenge for farmer . irrigation be need more frequently , add to the cost , and more land be become unviable for food production . as I have say before , I be fully behind a pro - green economy and ensure that renewable energy be not something for the future but for now . I have huge sympathy with the Minister and the team , because our energy security be in an appalling state after 14 year of Conservative Government . we have live through soar energy bill and fuel poverty , and we need cheap , clean energy , but that can not come at any cost . there be alternative , so let we recognise that and celebrate the fact that the UK be a world leader in offshore wind , with far more capacity than any other country . may I congratulate the hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) on what he have to say ? he be at least responsive to local interest in this . we have hear a number of rather glib comment about this and that percentage of land . let we just look at it from an individual point of view . last Monday the East Yorkshire solar farm in my constituency , cover 3 , 150 acre , be approve . not many policy make I angry in this place , but this one do for my constituent . why ? because a decision ride roughshod over the desire , wish and express complaint of my constituent . the solar farm will cover an area the size of Durham . let we imagine , if we be apply to build a town the size of Durham , how long the planning would take . yet this go through effectively on the nod , and the so - call consultation process be little more than a rubber - stamp operation . why do I say that ? because there be a lot of sensible and constructive input from my constituent , and some from I , and no attention whatsoever be pay to any of they . in try quite properly to save the global environment , the Government be cause untold harm to the local environment in Britain , and in so do they will fail in their first aim . do the right hon . Gentleman recognise that the Conservatives ' failure to have proper national strategy for development mean that we do not have enough prison place to lock up all of our criminal , and that not have sufficient solar energy will do the same ? unless the hon . Lady be talk about the suntan of the criminal , I be not quite sure what the relevance of that be . she be one of the one who be pick number out of the air , with this small percentage and that small percentage . I be point out the actual effect on ordinary citizen , and it be not the bland view that she have put forward . a 3 , 000 - acre solar farm be disproportionate for any part of the country , because it surround village and make life miserable for people . multiple town and village will be completely surround by the East Yorkshire solar farm . another one , the Mylen Leah solar farm , which would cover another 3 , 000 acre , be propose for right next door . that will effectively be 6 , 000 acre . I be not very optimistic about the attitude of the Government in the approval process . we have also hear slightly sneer reference to nimbys . what be we talk about here ? we be talk about actual people in my constituency . they range from pensioner who have spend their entire life saving to go and live in a quiet part of the country with a beautiful view , who will instead have a view of black plastic , to people not very far from I who buy a place in the country because they have get a child who be severely autistic and need the peace and quiet and the rural environment that be provide . we have people who take low salary to work in the country because that be what they want . we have people who be commit there in farm and rural industry . they be the so - call nimbys and they do not want their life ruin . that be what we be here to defend . when I survey my resident , as my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) do , I find that 90 % be against the size of the farm and against the overwhelming impact . they be not against the idea ; they be against the ridiculous way this be be do . I be run out of time , so I will make one other point about the ill - thought - through nature of the policy . it depend on access to the grid . therefore , the reason I have farm of 2 , 000 acre , 3 , 000 acre — probably more — be that we be near Drax on the grid . that encourage a concentration of huge farm in concentrated area all over the country , where ordinary people will have their life destroy by an ill - thought - through , rotten policy . I be proud that Britain have set ambitious target for clean energy . we want 95 % of our energy to come from low - carbon power source by 2030 . the Government be change the planning system , as we have hear , so they can deliver the renewable energy of the future . it be important that the benefit of that ambition be feel by we all , and I be keen to ensure that my constituency of North Northumberland be not overlook in the new energy race . that mean that our solar farm should be local , farmer friendly and effective so that they serve my constituent as well as the whole country . we have hear phrase such as " large - scale prime agricultural land " a lot . we just have to think through where the solar farm be go to be . it need not be an either / or , as seem to have be suggest here at time . first , it be crucial that solar farm have local support and be root in community . I know many in North Northumberland want renewable community energy that directly benefit they and their neighbourhood now . I have speak to very small rural community in my constituency that be well on their way in their attempt to get local solar farm . they want to sign up to the ambition of great British Energy for the future . we want to make sure that solar panel be a part of everyday life . in 2013 the Government estimate that there be a quarter of a million hectare of south - face commercial roof in the UK . we should make good use of those roof to ensure that new build home , for example , have solar panel for the benefit of their owner and their neighbourhood . that be entirely legitimate . secondly , solar farm must go hand in glove with farmer . in North Northumberland we have highly productive land that be outstanding for local farmer and for our national food security . it be therefore crucial that we use our scarce land for the good possible purpose . however , let we be clear to the conservative party , which claim to be for farmer and the party of free choice and small business : it be for those farmer and landowner to decide whether they want to diversify . early research by Lancaster University suggest that sheep farming , sheep grazing and solar farm — actually call " agrovoltaic " — can go hand in hand . solar farm could represent one strand of healthy diversification for many farm business , and I welcome that . I have be listen carefully to the hon . Gentleman ' s point , include about the opportunity for agrivoltaic . I suspect that a lot of resident would be more open to solar farm if they be combine with food grow in the way that he have describe . yet those be not the sort of application that I see come forward in East Anglia . will he ask the Government to be strong in their planning policy to encourage and require solar farm that be combine with food grow ? I be just about to say that I welcome the Government ' s propose new land use framework , which I think be key . the land use framework , which no Government have have before , will help landowner make sensible and effective decision with their land . I trust that will include a strong focus on both food production and renewable energy . finally , and most importantly , solar farm must lead to low bill . I be optimistic that as we ease the influence of foreign dictator off our energy supply and generate more of our own renewable energy , the british people will begin to see the benefit . skilled job and low bill will be the reward for the country that win the clean energy race , and the good reward for investment in solar and wind power will be low bill for my constituent in North Northumberland . we have hear a lot of what I think be a false dichotomy here today , for instance from the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) . set up that false dichotomy between food security and energy security be not the way forward . we must do both together . I want my constituent to be part of the national conversation as we move towards net zero . they be keen to see low emission , low bill and local job , and that mean ensure that solar farm be local , farmer friendly and effective so that they serve the british people well . order . we will have a two - minute time limit from after the next speaker . I call Llinos Medi . Ynys M ô n be know as " energy island . " however , support for clean energy should not undermine our community . the current plan for huge solar farm on Ynys M ô n do exactly that . at present we have a proposal for the Alaw M ô n and Maen Hir solar farm , which would cover 3 , 700 acre . that be nearly 2 % of the island ' s total land — a huge area . those solar farm would be build on good - quality agricultural land . Ynys M ô n be not oppose to solar energy — the island already host several solar farm , such as Bryn yr Odyn , Bodorgan and Porth Wen . in addition , Traffwll solar farm await construction . we be play more than our part in the green transition , from solar to wind , from marine to nuclear . Ynys M ô n be also know as the mother of Wales , because the island ' s fertile land have serve as the breadbasket of Wales . build these project on good agricultural land undermine food security and the agricultural sector , which be a vital part of our economy . the hon . Lady highlight food security and energy security , which be often highlight as be in competition in this debate . be it not the truth that both be crucial for a sustainable future and that it be not clear how the Government will relate the strategic spatial energy plan to the land use framework ? do she agree that both have to work together under a clear national strategy ? the current approach to large solar be a sign of a lack of strategic planning , but also of a lack of food security planning . Ynys M ô n have UNESCO global geopark status to recognise its outstanding geological heritage and to manage it for conservation , education and sustainable development — " sustainable " be the crucial word . the propose solar farm be not sustainable for Ynys M ô n and would totally undermine the island ' s global geopark status . I propose to the Government that solar deployment should follow a hierarchy in order to good suit the need of local community . first , solar should be integrate into new build domestic , commercial and industrial building by build developer . it should then be retrofit to exist building by the building owner . I be deeply concerned that the Government be back developer over local community when it come to control over land . there be a huge risk of development consent order be use by developer to buy up land against the wish of landowner . the threat of a DCO give developer leverage over landowner to take on decommissioning cost for solar farm . what assessment have the Minister make of that trend ? do he believe that dco be be misuse by developer in Wales ? we have a country to keep , a piece of land as proof of our right to survive . coal , slate , water — our natural resource — have be extract from our deprive community for the benefit of other . the land of our father have be strip of valuable resource and the profit take out of Wales . it be only fair that community in Ynys M ô n and the rest of Wales be respect . push through large solar project that be at odd with the need of local people be not the way forward . the Government must change course , end the pattern of extraction and put Welsh community at the heart of their solar strategy . I have be give two minute , so I will get straight to the point and talk about Whitestone . last July , after be elect as the MP for Rother Valley , I make a solemn promise to my constituent that I would always put their interest first . the Whitestone proposal have raise real concern among resident , and I have hold numerous public meeting and consultation since the proposal first come to my desk last November . numerous concern have be raise by resident , and I have make those very clear to the developer as the proposal have develop . I will share the three major concern that stand out . the first be the sheer scale of the proposal . it would change the very nature of the area we enjoy . the second be the particular location that be affect . four beautiful village — Ulley , Brampton - en - le - Morthen , Harthill and Kiveton Park — would potentially be engulf by the Whitestone proposal . I have have conversation with the developer . I be pleased that there have already be a reduction of 25 % , but I hope for much more . the third be the issue of tenant farmer . it be right , as have be raise , that many landowner may choose to engage with the solar farm market , and that be their choice — we live in a free economy . but for tenant farmer the situation be somewhat different . I have tenant farmer in my constituency who have farm land for generation , if not century , who feel that they be under threat , and I want to support they , as be my role . I simply urge the developer , in come forward with its proposal later this year , to take into account the thousand of resident who have raise serious concern about the proposal as they stand . I urge the developer to make its proposal proportionate and fair , ensure that we get a fair deal out of the transition to a green economy . I pay tribute to the hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) and for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) for take a brave stance against their Government Whips and stand up for their constituent against these reckless solar farm proposal . today ' s debate be on solar energy , but the point I intend to make apply to more than just this type of energy infrastructure . the manner in which these project be be pursue — aggressively and without due care — be begin to cause a major backlash . there be rapidly grow fear that solar and renewable project be be force through and greenlit for installation against the wish of the people who will have to live next to they . the " net zero at all cost " agenda of this Labour Government , which be enthusiastically endorse by the SNP at Holyrood , cause great concern across the country — and for good reason . protect the environment should not come at the expense of our economy , job and countryside . the approach of Labour and the SNP need to change . major infrastructure project be a particular issue in rural constituency like mine in the Scottish Borders , where the countryside be not some far - off place we speak wistfully about ; it be where we live . the countryside be part of our community . when solar project be propose that be big than some town , it be deeply worry for local people . time and again , when I look at project across my constituency , I see a scandalous lack of regard for the view of local people . they be give little information , be overlook and even ignore , and then expect to just agree with the project . Labour and the SNP might think that be acceptable , but conservative Members do not . we believe that it be wrong , and that people should not have to put up with it . the climate crisis grow more urgent , and our child ' s future be under threat . solar energy will play a crucial role in the mission to produce secure , affordable energy in this country . since the general election , the Government have consent to more solar power project than be consent to over the entirety of the past 14 year . great British Energy be invest £ 200 million in new rooftop solar energy panel , include for the roof of the newly build Leighton hospital near my constituency , and in renewable energy scheme for school , hospital and community . that will take hundred of million of pound off public sector energy bill . new building standard will ensure that all new build house and commercial building be fit for a net zero future . the standard be expect to encourage the installation of solar panel , and I welcome that . it be critical that we exclude slave labour from the supply chain for solar panel , both on moral ground and to enable alternative producer to compete on a fair playing field . much of the global supply of solar - grade polysilicon — a key component of solar panel — be manufacture in Xinjiang , China , where over 1 million Uyghur Muslims be imprison in a vast network of force labour camp . this week , I meet people from Open Doors to learn more about its work tackle religious persecution around the world . it say in its 2022 report that " in Xinjiang you be always watch ; a computer decide your fate , against which there be no appeal . " be my hon . friend surprise to hear that despite our deep concern about solar panel production in China , there be virtually zero investment in the UK ' s solar production during the Conservatives ' time in office ? since we come to power — order . we really must have short intervention , or I will not be able to get every Member in . I agree with hon . friend . that be disgraceful , and I be very pleased that the relaunche solar taskforce be focus on develop resilient and sustainable supply chain , free from forced labour . it be important that we work with our farmer and grower across the country . british farmer own about 70 % of our total solar generation capacity , whether it be on the roof of their agricultural building or on solar farm . I be extremely pleased that the NFU be participate in the Government ' s relaunche solar taskforce . we must continue to ensure that farm be properly consult about land use , and that previously develop or low - quality land be prioritise . I thank the business in my community that have support solar energy , include manufacturer Siemens and Bespak , which both use renewable energy source . the Dane Valley Community Energy company be a not - for - profit mutual society that be set up by a group of volunteer in my constituency . they have construct and run the Congleton hydroelectricity generation project at Havannah weir , and they supply electricity to Siemens and donate money to local community group . a sister project , Congleton Solar , have instal rooftop solar on a number of site in my constituency and beyond . Havannah primary school in my constituency will officially unveil its rooftop solar panel next week . I know that the project will inspire the next generation of green champion . I be very proud to be part of a Government who be meet community where they be , and follow their lead . obviously , I like to bring people together in consensus , and I think there be consensus in the House that there be a place for solar — on roof . of course , I like to lead by example , so I have put solar panel on the roof of my industrial building . then , one can sell electricity to the occupier beneath and ease the considerable pressure on the national grid . surely solar farm be completely inappropriate . we have be hear about thousand and thousand of acre of solar farm . in the great , glorious county of Lincolnshire , there be application and plan for 40 , 000 acre of solar panel on top - quality farmland . that be completely inappropriate . it would destroy not only that farmland , but — this have not be mention — great job in the county of Lincolnshire for the next 20 to 30 year . that be absolute madness . it be also so unfair . those live in a village or small town in the countryside might all of a sudden find themselves surround not by glorious field , but by black plastic . there be no justification for that , or fairness in it . I be sure that my hon . friend be aware of the large battery energy storage plant that will be require as we use more solar farm , but be he aware of the danger that they pose to the public and the environment ? I be most grateful to my hon . friend the Member for common sense . Most solar farm now include huge battery storage system , which , we have learn , be very dangerous . three of they have go up in flame just this year in the United Kingdom . the fire can not be put out ; they must be leave to burn out . what happen when those system burn ? toxic fume be release , include hydrogen fluoride , and toxin seep into the ground , as we have learn from California , where one go up in flame . there be massive danger from those battery storage system , but nobody be talk about that — and by the way , no one know who be responsible for battery storage system health and safety . I have a solar development in my constituency , and there be proposal for a battery storage solution . the hon . Gentleman mention safety . I be hope to address that through an amendment to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill that would require relevant fire authority to be statutory consultee . would he support that ? I would be very interested . the fact be that fire department in county up and down the country do not have the resource , manpower or willingness to take on these safety risk . that should be the subject of a separate big , important debate . we be all concerned about health and safety . surely nobody want to live next to something dangerous and toxic that could cause entire village to be evacuate , as thermal runaway mean that the fire can not be put out . I be conscious that other member wish to speak . we need a great understanding of these battery storage system . I rise not just as the Member for Mid Norfolk , but as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on science and technology in agriculture . as member will be aware , Norfolk be Britain ' s first county and our leading agricultural county — the Royal Norfolk show be the premier show in the country . Norfolk be absolutely at the vanguard of this country ' s agricultural industry , and of the Government ' s state — although increasingly cynically state — commitment to increase food security . the globe have to double food production in the next 25 year on the same land area , with half as much water and energy , and Norfolk be in the vanguard when it come to the technology with which to do that ; there be the drought - resistant crop , and the gene - edit , disease - resistant crop , at the Norwich Research Park . in my constituency of Mid Norfolk , the home of Banham Poultry and Cranswick Country Foods , farming and agriculture be the no . 1 industry , employ thousand in agricultural machinery supply , haulage and food processing . I cheer when I hear that the Government be go to support the agricultural industry and food production , and I cheer their commitment to support UK science , include the agricultural science that be key to meet that challenge , but since the election , we have see the most extraordinary attack on farm , the rural economy and small business take on job . there be also a proposal for a 7 , 500 acre — that be 10 , 000 square mile , or 20 , 000 km — solar farm , reach from Castle Acre , through Swaffham , to Dereham . this be in a constituency where agriculture , food and tourism be the no . 1 industry . Government Members need to reflect on this . I want renewable energy , and I want cheap energy . my constituent would like to be consult . the resident of 14 village will wake up live in the middle of a power station , with no serious planning consultation at all , no community benefit , and the rate be take back to London by Ministers . this be an utterly cynical move towards the industrialisation of the countryside , which will rebound seriously on the Labour party and , more importantly , on this country ' s food and energy system . it be wrong . I call the Liberal Democrat spokesman . I should declare that prior to enter this House , I spend the well part of a decade work in renewable energy finance . while I would not claim to be a solar expert , I could certainly write a whole speech debunk thing that have be say today . for the record , solar panel have a low carbon footprint per unit generate than the equivalent fossil fuel . they be 95 % recyclable , and any solar farm development require a glint - and - glare report before it get approval if it be anywhere near an Air Force base or an airport . I will move on , because I could go on for a long time . those of we who believe in science know that tackle climate change mean make bold , practical choice about how we decarbonise our economy . if we be serious about reach net zero , tackle fuel poverty and protect our countryside , we have to make renewable work for people as well as the planet . I have often make the point that the solar sector be not particularly good at communicate the benefit of a just transition to the population at large , so let I be clear : solar power mean cheap bill for consumer , protection against geopolitical insecurity and a greener future for the next generation . I be listen carefully to the hon . gentleman . so that we in this House and the whole country can hear clearly , be he say that the Liberal Democrats fully support solar farm ? the hon . Gentleman will be pleased to know that the answer be in my speech . we have make substantial progress on decarbonise our power grid : a decade ago , just 6 % of our energy come from renewable , and today , the figure stand at 42 % . that be a national achievement we should be proud of , but we must go far , not just because the climate emergency demand it , but because renewable be the cheap source of energy available . liberal Democrats believe strongly in expand use of solar and other renewable to reduce our dependence on fossil fuel , improve energy security and bring down bill . crucially , we believe that this must be do while protect our natural environment . a strategic land use framework be essential if we be serious about deliver net zero while safeguard our ability to produce food and restore nature . we be ask more and more of the countryside — to produce food , capture carbon , generate clean energy , support biodiversity and provide space for housing , tourism and recreation . without a join - up approach , we risk pit these priority against one another . it be vital that a framework give clear national guidance on where solar be most appropriate ; set out that solar should avoid high - quality agricultural land wherever possible ; and encourage dual - use solution that support both energy generation and nature recovery . it must enable local authority to plan ahead with confidence , and to balance compete pressure in a way that reflect the need and character of their community . planning policy should not be dictate solely by where grid connection be available , but by a long - term vision of how we want our land to be use . it be a common claim that instead of put solar panel on field , we should put they on rooftop and car park . I do not disagree , but have work in the sector , I feel obligated — I make this point a lot — to explain the commercial reality . if utility - scale solar cost 50p per unit to build , rooftop solar be roughly double that , and carport double that again . meanwhile , energy company pay as little as 5p or 5 . 5p per unit for energy export to the grid . that mean that pure - export rooftop and carport solar do not stack up financially for investor , but that be something that the Government can fix . by mandate a minimum export price , we could unlock rooftop and car port investment , reduce pressure on farmland and cut consumer bill . yes , wholesale energy buyer would earn a little less , but consumer , community and the climate would all benefit . this be an easy win for a Government who have state their commitment to net zero . ground - mount solar will invariably remain part of the energy mix , and we can not reach our climate target without it , but project must be do right , which mean prioritise low grade land and ensure that new scheme come with tangible benefit for the community they affect . community benefit fund should receive a fair share of the wealth create . my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) have table new clause to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill to deliver just that , alongside local authority power to invest in energy efficiency and support street - by - street upgrade to reduce bill . in Scotland , for example , community benefit be worth £ 5 , 000 per instal megawatt per year . that mean that a controversial large - scale solar project , such as the Kingsway solar farm in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) , would provide £ 2 . 5 million annually to the local community . that be the scale we should be talk about , and it must be the community that determine how and where that money be spend . today , about two third of UK solar be ground - mount , but rooftop solar have a critical role to play and the Liberal Democrats be proud to be lead on that issue . we welcome the Government ' s decision to adopt our policy of mandate solar panel on the roof of new home , which be a core part and first step of our rooftop revolution . we also call on Ministers to go far , by require new home to meet net zero building standard and include provision for solar generation . when it come to delivery , Liberal Democrats in local government be show what can be do . from Barkham solar farm in Wokingham to Sandscale park in Westmorland and the thousand of car park panel instal in Portsmouth , we be deliver clean energy at scale , back by community . delivery must also be responsible , and I know that many of we be concerned about the number of solar farm be approve on our good agricultural land . let I be clear : I be yet to meet a farmer who get into farming because they want to grow solar panel ; this be happen because make a living from farming be increasingly impossible . we must ensure that farming be sustainable , profitable , and properly support , so that farmer can keep do what they do good , which be produce brilliant british food and look after the land . I also share concern about the use of nationally significant infrastructure project scheme , which be take land out of use . that raise question about long - term land use and oversight , particularly give the level of foreign investment in the sector . finally , a very quick word on standard — I appreciate that I be test your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be genuine concern about labour practice in the global solar supply chain , but the industry be take action . have be part of the Solar Energy UK supply chain sustainability working group when it be first constitute , I can personally attest that the industry be take the issue very seriously . through the solar stewardship initiative , robust environmental , social and governance and traceability standard be be apply to ensure compliance with UK and EU law . by the end of this year , certify facility will be produce 100 GW of panel annually , which be five time the UK ' s current capacity . as a result , we can be confident that we can meet our target without compromise our value . the potential of solar be enormous . it can drive down bill , reduce emission and create thousand of job , as well as protect our countryside . I call the shadow Minister . may I pause to pay tribute to those Back Benchers who be not able to contribute today ? the passion about this issue be evidence by the number of Conservative Members present . two minute be an inadequate amount of time in which to describe the distress that many of their constituent feel . I will try to encapsulate what I have hear they say , but it will not do justice to the amount of anguish that rural community be feel . in this solar farm debate we be talk about an attack on rural community . it be an attack on farmer , on tenant farmer and on the english rural way of life . I do not hear people complain about solar farm be build in industrial area or on rooftop ; I hear complaint about 3 , 000 - acre solar farm destroy the countryside , destroy village , and be build with no concern for the community they will leave behind . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . by secure a debate on this important subject on the Floor of the House she have do the House a tremendous service . moreover , my hon . friend have do much more , and she deserve recognition for that . she have work tirelessly on the issue over a number of year , fight for her constituent . I can testify to that , as I be the designated whip when we be in government ; no Member , from any part of the House , bother we more on the issue of the importance of protect rural community from solar farm expansion . she secure vital change from the last government to limit where solar farm could be build — change that this Government have now undo . Solar have a role in our energy mix , include on rooftop and in south - face industrial area , but it carry significant cost and bring a dependency on China and force labour supply chain that be questionable and should concern we all , despite what the Lib - Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , may say . my constituency have 2 , 000 acre of raise reservoir and there be 402 member in the House from England alone who have raise reservoir in their constituency , but the debate have not cover the potential for float solar . do the shadow Minister agree that if the forthcoming Government solar road map do not contain a substantial amount on float solar on raise reservoir , then we will have miss a massive opportunity ? I thank my hon . friend for his excellent point . may I suggest that he apply to the Backbench Business Committee for a debate on that topic ? there be such interest today that I be sure that a debate on float solar would be welcome by the House . many people be affect by this issue . I pay tribute to member on the Labour Benches for their bold willingness to stand up for their constituent . it be difficult to do that and I be very impressed that they have do so . the Government may struggle to understand that it be possible to be pro - solar energy while raise legitimate concern about where and how that expansion affect community , our countryside , farmer and food security . do the shadow Minister agree that if we continue to permit application for solar farm in the countryside , include those at Weatheroak and Hunnington in my constituency , we erode our agricultural self - sufficiency , and that it be important that this government do not betray the countryside any more than they already have do ? as the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs represent a constituency in Croydon , it be perhaps understandable that he may misinterpret the need of rural community . we need to continue to highlight the plight of rural community and how such issue affect they , and we must allow for proper debate in the House about these important topic . I hold the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , in high regard , and I hope that his response will recognise and encompass the concern and issue that have be raise today . I know that his brief cover several Departments and that that bring challenge , but the Government need to address three key area of concern : the loss of high - quality agricultural land , the clustering of development application link to solar farm and the importance of community consent . on the loss of high - quality agricultural land , my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham eloquently set out why that matter to her constituent . it also matter to constituent in Mid Norfolk , where a 7 , 000 acre development be propose . do the shadow Minister agree that as well as all the point that have be make about agriculture and solar , there be a democratic point here ? resident in 14 village in my patch , and in many other , will find that they be live in the middle of a power station . let we name it for what it be : a power station . they think that each village will have a bit of solar , but they will be live in an industrial power station . that should not be allow to happen without a proper planning consultation and proper compensation . I could not agree more with what my hon . Friend say . there be a lack of compensation for rural community and no offer of low energy bill or a discount on offset the cost of energy . these local community will sacrifice their green space , livelihood and way of life for energy that will not give they a direct benefit . in Lincolnshire , this issue have a huge impact . we see solar application in constituency , particularly in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham , where they cover 7 % of the overall available land . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) in Lincolnshire face 5 % of land in his constituency be consume by solar . that be shocking . across the country , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) face 9 % of land in his constituency be consume by solar farm . Lincolnshire ' s agricultural land be vital to our food security , but it be under threat . developer see this land as the fast and easy pathway to solar farm development , enable by a Government who seem to place no importance on our food security . the Countryside Alliance recently highlight that tenant farmer face threat ; I appreciate that that be raise by the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) , and I appreciate his boldness in do that . those tenant farmer be be evict to make way for solar farm . Tenant farmer be not landowner : they work the land , and they be be evict so that solar farm can be put in place . as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) and the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough , point out , we be lose farmland and farmer and our food security in the reckless ideological pursuit of net zero . that be why his Majesty ' s opposition have table new clause 47 to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which would limit where solar farm can be build on agricultural land . what assessment have the Government make of the impact of solar farm application on the loss of agricultural land and tenant farmer in area such as Lincolnshire and on our national food security ? will the Minister look at way to incentivise the development of solar capacity away from agricultural land ? as developer seek easy access to agricultural land , this lead to a clustering effect , which many Conservative Members mention . we hear mention of a 3 , 000 - acre development in East Yorkshire , which , couple with another 3 , 000 - acre development , mean that 6 , 000 acre of land in East Yorkshire be be consume by solar farm . the need for these application to cluster around substation for cost - effective grid connection be create an overwhelming impact in area such as Lincolnshire , Suffolk , Buckinghamshire , East Yorkshire , Norfolk and across our rural community in England and the south of Scotland . I particularly want to pay tribute to my hon . friend — Order . I be sure that the shadow Minister will bring her remark to a close very shortly . I will , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope that we can address this issue in the House again very soon , because there be much more to be say on this important matter . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) be not able to make all of his remark , and many member be not able to raise their concern . finally , I will talk about community consent , which have be raise so many time already today . we need to ensure that we be listen to these community , not ignore they and bulldoze over our green space — our countryside and our agricultural land — for the sake of a relentless net zero target that will destroy our rural way of life . I mention again that agricultural land be be consume by this Government at an alarming rate . farming capacity be be lose as tenant farmer be evict . whole county be be cover in cluster of solar farm . local community be be ignore and expert be be overridden . those be the reality of a solar strategy drive by ideology ahead of evidence . I urge the Minister to heed the concern that hon . and right hon . member have raise so forcefully today and to change course urgently . I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) on secure a debate on this important issue . it be the first day in a while that Westminster have not be bask in sunlight , although I do note — contrary to some contribution make by Conservative Members — that solar be currently generate 30 % of this country ' s electricity , more than any other technology . Solar play a critical role in our energy mix . the hon . Lady ask whether I would meet she to discuss proposal in her constituency ; of course , I be very happy to meet she to discuss these issue , as I meet member across the House . I welcome all — or perhaps I should say some — of the contribution to today ' s debate . when the debate begin , I be not expect the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) to endorse the clean power mission so comprehensively , not only endorse our rooftop solar revolution but lead the way in his own industrial empire . I will include he in the next newsletter on the clean power mission ; I be sure he will happily receive it . I know that we be short on time , but I be happy to briefly outline the Government ' s position and respond to some of the numerous point that have be make . I also hold the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , in high regard , and I will respond to some of her point over the course of my speech . the clean power mission that this Government have embark on be not about ideology . it be about deliver energy security , climate leadership , and the only way in which we can move away from volatile fossil fuel set our constituent ’ bill , which be what so many have face over the past few year . it be the only way to create well - pay industrial job and deliver the clean power mission right across the country . my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) reference community benefit and the benefit to individual of instal solar panel on their own roof ; he be absolutely right about that , and I will return to the issue of rooftop shortly . I welcome my hon . friend ' s contribution , as he be a former pupil at Park Mains , where I use to teach — although for the record , he be not a pupil when I be teach there . my hon . Friend also make the point , which I want to reiterate , that this be not a battle between food security and energy security . I will just say one thing , which I be sure Conservative Members will strongly endorse : " solar project and agricultural practice can co - exist . for example , the science of agrivoltaic be develop , in which solar be integrate with arable farming in innovative way . that be come on in leap and bound . " — [ Official Report , 18 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 184WH - 185WH . ] we can achieve food security and energy security together for our United Kingdom . the Minister and I have have this conversation a number of time . he will be aware that paragraph 2 . 10 . 29 of EN - 3 state that " good and most versatile " land should not be use for solar farm . he have already inform I that no solar farm in the country use more than 50 % of good and most versatile land ; will he commit to a hard limit on how much of that land can be use for a solar project ? as I think I say the last time we have this exchange , I always welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s numerous write parliamentary question to I — it be a treat to see they every morning , and he do raise important point . I be not go to put a figure on it right now , but we have clearly say that it be important to find the right balance when it come to good - use agricultural land . I will come back to that issue . the hon . Gentleman do not let I get to my point . I just speak about this not be a competition between energy security and food security ; those be the word of the shadow Energy Secretary , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , not that many month ago , before the Conservatives go down the hole of deny that the climate crisis be a real thing and that our energy security and food security can co - exist . that be their policy when the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham last bring this debate to the House , which I think be nine month ago . the Minister say that this be not a competition between energy security and farming security . it should not be ; the reason it be become one be that his Government be allow our good and most versatile farmland , use for grow crop , to be take over by solar farm . I thank the hon . Lady for her point , but it be not I say that this be not a competition — it be her own shadow Energy Secretary just a few month ago . I do not accept her point , either ; I will come to that very briefly , but in a bit more detail , in a second . let we not forget that this be also about tackle the climate crisis . the Conservatives might be willing to ignore that crisis , but the truth be that time and again they forget that climate change will have a devastating impact on agriculture and on land across this country . we have to do something about that , and this be part of it . Solar will be part of our energy security in the future , although it will not make up the entirety of our clean power system . will the Minister give way ? I will make a bit of progress , because I be conscious that another debate be to start soon . rooftop solar , as many member have raise , be important . it be not an either / or . we see a real opportunity to put solar on every possible rooftop right across the country . we have announce our ambition for new home and for industrial building . we recently launch a consultation or a call for evidence on car park , too . if there be a rooftop that we can put solar panel on , we be keen to do so , but there will also be a role for ground - mount solar to play . finally on this point , the public also support solar . many Opposition Members have say that they have do their own survey — where , funnily enough , they get the result they hope to get . in the most recent poll , 88 % of people say that they support solar , and that figure have never dip below 80 % . there be a question about balance , as I have say in this House on a number of occasion and will say again . we want to build a clean power system that bring community with we . that require a balance of different technology in different part of the country , but it be not credible to come here and say , " we support the building of infra - structure , but please do not build it in my constituency . " rise — I will briefly give way to the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) . I be grateful to the Minister , but what be he say to my constituent who be genuinely terrify by these large - scale wind farm , pylon and solar farm come to our area of Scotland , which I be sure he know well ? just as importantly , what do he say to the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) and for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) , who raise the same concern as member on the Opposition Benches ? first , I say to the hon . member that I have one of Europe ' s large wind farm on my doorstep , so I know exactly what it be like . I would also say that bring down bill and deliver energy security matter to his constituent as much as it matter to mine , and a robust planning system be in place . opposition Members speak as though there be no process for local community to be consult , but there absolutely be ; they be frequently consult , and that play a critical part in the decision make about these project . will the Minister give way ? I will not , because I be conscious that there be another debate to come . these question about the planning system be important . there be a rigorous process in place . we recently raise the threshold for solar project go into the NSIP regime . I seem to remember a number of Opposition Members oppose that , but the whole purpose be to ensure we do not have the issue that we have at the moment , where a lot of project be deliberately 49 MW , which be just below the threshold . by change the threshold , we have more project go through local , democratic council planning consideration , so those member should welcome that decision . those planning decision also consider biodiversity , the local economy , visual amenity , protect landscape and many other thing , and those consideration also include , as a number of member say , cumulative impact where more than one project be plan in close proximity . member raise many other point that I be afraid I will not have time to come to in this debate , so perhaps we should have another debate on some of they . on land use , the guidance make it clear that wherever possible , developer should utilise brownfield , industrial , contaminate or previously develop land . where development on agricultural land be necessary , low - quality land should be prefer to high - quality land and so on . on question of food security , I defer to the president of the National Farmers Union , who say that it be " important that we ' re not sensationalist about the impact on food security " . I trust his judgment on this question above some other in this place . I be move through a number of point as quickly as I can . on land use , a number of member have ask about how we bring together the land use framework and the strategic spatial energy plan . I have a meeting about that just this week . the Government should have have a serious look at land use in this country many year ago and at how we strategically plan our energy system right across the country . they will come together . we be also look at regional energy plan that give a more localise view , too . the National Energy System Operator be currently take that work forward , and that be an important step . on community involvement , it be important that community feel like they have a voice in this process . I have frequently say from this Dispatch Box that I do not for a second underestimate the strength of feeling for community that have any infrastructure build near their house or village — whether that be prison , the electricity system or new housing — but as a country , we can not simply say that we will not build any new infrastructure because some people might oppose it . if we do that , we would never build anything , we would never deliver economic growth , and we would hold this country back , so I make no apology for say it be about the balance between how we bring community with we and how we get on with building in this country again , and that be important . on the point make by the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham about glint and glare , the impact on the loop - the - loop be one of my highlight of the debate . as the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) say , solar panel be design to absorb light , not reflect it , and glint and glare be consider in the planning process already , so it be take into account . I be conscious of the time , and I apologise to hon . member who raise serious point that I will not be able to address in this debate . I be happy to follow up in writing on a number of those point . solar power be one of the cheap form of energy that we have in this country . it be deployable at scale , and can play a critical role in deliver our energy security and in our deliver the climate leadership that we need — to tackle not a future threat , but a present reality that will affect farmer up and down the country if we do not do so . I acknowledge that any infrastructure project have impact on community . the planning system do all that it can to mitigate those impact , but we need to build stuff in this country . Infrastructure have to be build , and our electricity system have to be upgrade . we will build on rooftop , we will build a mix of energy technology right across the country , and we will take on all innovation that be possible . it be fantastic how quickly we be innovate in this space , but hon . member can not simply say , " let ' s not build in my constituency " , because that be not a credible option . I thank the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham once again for secure the debate . although we might not agree on everything , I take her point very seriously . it be important for I to say that I hear the point that she and other have raise , and I be happy to meet she to discuss they far . Dr Caroline Johnson have one minute to wind up . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope the Minister have listen carefully to what have be say , and have understand that this be not about nimbys — it be not about " not in my back yard " and it be not even about the aesthetic of solar farm . it be about the overwhelming scale of the proposal and the fact that solar farm will take up a huge amount of good - quality farmland . if one have a sensible strategy and want to use ground - mount solar , one would put it in place where there be not good food - produce land ; one would not put it on the good food - produce land , but that be what this Government be seek to do . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider solar farm . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) refer to the Heckington Fen solar project in her speech today , and claim that it be approve by the Secretary of State . the Secretary of State do not take that decision . he recuse himself from it , and that be make abundantly clear — publicly — follow the decision . we have a duty in this House to be accurate and not to question another Member ' s integrity . what the hon . Member say be categorically incorrect , and I therefore respectfully ask that she withdraw her comment . I thank the hon . member for his point . he will know that it be not a point of order , but a point of debate that perhaps would have be well deal with in the debate itself by mean of an intervention . however , if the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) wish to respond , she may . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my point be that under a Labour Government and Secretary of State , a Labour donor have be give permission to build a great big solar farm just outside my constituency . that be the point I be make : the Labour — order . we be not go to have a continuation of the debate via point of order . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in the interest of accuracy — I understand that be what we be try to pursue — the Minister say during the course of his final remark that 30 % of power be produce by solar panel . the figure for April , produce by NESO , be 10 % . I thank the right hon . member for his point of order . as I say , these be point of debate , not point of order , and they be certainly not matter for the Chair . Youth Services I beg to move , that this House have consider the long - term funding of youth service . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allow time for this debate , member for support it , and all the organisation that have provide material for today ' s contribution . this Government have state that they be on a mission to break down barrier to opportunity , to ensure that every young person in every part of our country get the good start in life and have access to the tool they need to thrive . as have always be the case , a young person be shape not just by what they do in a classroom or what they hear in the playground , but by the community they grow up in and the stake they have in it . that be what youth service be . they be a safe space outside school , and the place to broaden horizon and build meaningful connection with the outside world . as an eld millennial with baby - boomer parent , I know that every generation believe that theirs have have it the hard , but in our day we at least have the luxury of live our most awkward and vulnerable year without the glare of social medium . at least we have the opportunity to fail , to be odd and to learn who we be before we present ourselves to the world . whether it be the impact of covid , the cost of live crisis or try to prepare for a world of work that be constantly change , our young people be face unprecedented challenge in a country that , for too long , have not invest enough in their wellbeing . as a result , in England one in five child and young people now have a probable mental health disorder . the number of emergency hospital admission for child age five to 18 due to a mental health crisis increase by 65 % between 2012 and 2022 . incident of youth violence remain at high level , with 3 , 000 knife crime offence last year involve a child . the Office for National Statistics report that 16 to 24 - year - old be now the loneliest group in our society , and the Good Childhood report state that the UK ' s child and young people be the " unhappy in Europe " . this damn picture of what it be like to grow up in this country should shame we all , because , as they say , it take a village to raise a child . what have happen since the 2010 spending review , which see funding for youth service pit against service with great statutory protection , be the systematic dismantling of the network of support that use to keep our young people safe . the village have be replace by a patchwork of voluntary organisation , with few and few council - run youth service bid endlessly for one - off pot of funding that will inevitably come to an end . my hon . friend be make a powerful case . she point out the extraordinary cut in the funding for youth service — over 70 % under the last government — with 50 % of centre lose . can I take this opportunity to say that some centre have thrive and that continue , such as the Sulgrave youth club , which have its centenary next year , and that be thank to long - term support and funding , but also to private philanthropy — order . the hon . Gentleman be an experienced enough parliamentarian to know that that be a very long intervention . my hon . friend be quite right : there have be a 73 % decline in funding for youth service . I congratulate the organisation in his constituency on its centenary . do my hon . friend also recognise that there be also a funding crisis in Scotland , with the Scottish Government starve local authority of the funding they need to provide these vital service ? this be not just in England ; it be a UK - wide problem , and the SNP Scottish Government be certainly not make it easy . I understand that MSP colleague be consider bring in a youth Act in Scotland , which be quite innovative , and perhaps we should try to emulate some of its provision . with the closure of over 1 , 000 youth centre , one in eight local council now have no youth centre in its area . the workforce crisis have see youth worker often stick in low - pay and insecure work . the voluntary sector , which now deliver 80 % of youth work , face its own funding crisis , with 25 % of voluntary youth organisation have less than six month of cash reserve . despite those challenge , organisation across our community be step up to rebuild the village around our young people . nowhere be that more evident than in Croydon , the town I have the privilege of represent in this place . in Croydon , organisation be work tirelessly to provide the support that young people need : Redthread , which be work in Croydon university hospital to offer young people catch up in youth violence a way out ; reach Higher , which aim to support and champion young people across school , community and home ; Croydon Drop In , which offer free confidential advice and mental health support to young people and family ; and Croydon Youth Consortium , which be drive collaboration across local youth charity , so they avoid compete against each other for the same limited pot of funding . Croydon be lead the way in give our young people a stake in their community . however , due to impend budget cut and reorganisation , Croydon , which be London ' s young borough , be on the verge of lose its council - run youth engagement team . the team provide a critical link between the council , the voluntary sector and vulnerable young people across the borough . it provide outreach , run youth hub in hard - to - reach area , and oversee Croydon ' s youth assembly . to put it simply , Croydon ' s youth engagement team have save life . the limited statutory protection in place for council - lead youth service mean that Croydon council can shut the service down without run a proper consultation ; without ask key partner , such as the police or the NHS , how much they rely on the frontline knowledge the team offer they ; and even without consult the borough ' s young people properly , have approach only 31 of they in the process of draw up its plan . the council claim that some of the service will be retain by invite the voluntary sector to put in bid to run they , but they can not replace the consistency , institutional knowledge and co - ordinating role that the youth engagement team provide . as one mother , whose son attend the New Addington youth hub in my constituency , put it : " the staff do such a good job at make everything seem conversational and natural . . . we ' ve have pop up service through charity . but with the youth club , they ' ve be able to spend time with a consistent staff team and build relationship with a professional and diverse staff . " I welcome the Government ' s commitment to the wellbeing of our young people : their work on a national youth strategy that put the voice of young people at its heart , and their plan for the young future hub to tackle the complex cause of youth violence . but I urge they to back up that investment with proper statutory protection for youth service . it be time to stop the erosion of youth work . it be time to introduce statutory sufficiency benchmark to ensure that no matter where they be , no matter the community they grow up in , all young people have the right to youth work , with measurable minimum expectation . as outline by the National Youth Agency , that would not only give youth service the priority they deserve , but provide stability to the youth work sector , give it the long - term structure need to invest in proper pay , training and support for its workforce . it be not just a moral mission to provide these service for our young people ; it be also a practical one . as the Government ' s own data show , young people who receive youth work support as teenager be happy , healthy and wealthy . as the Institute for Fiscal Studies estimate , for every £ 1 invest in youth service , we save between £ 3 . 20 and £ 6 . 40 in wide cost to society . for many , youth work provide a trusted adult ; a guide hand on to the next step when the next step feel impossible . I would like to end by share the story of Rania . she be a young woman who , like many across our country , leave education full of potential but be paralyse by fear . she battle deep mental health struggle , loneliness , isolation and a crush sense that she be " not enough " for the work world . Rania get in touch with the King ' s Trust . she begin to work with Charlie , a youth delivery lead who do not just help she with her cv and job application ; she listen , she believe and she walk she through every moment of doubt . Rania go on to apply for three NHS role and be offer all of they . she be now proudly work as a band 2 healthcare assistant . as she put it : " with the support provide , I hardly recognise myself . I still can hardly grasp how much Charlie ' s support have impact I and motivate I to achieve my goal . " that be the power of youth work . at a time when hundred of thousand of young people be struggle to find a future , it be youth worker like Charlie who be quietly pull life back from the brink . if we be serious about end the youth unemployment crisis , if we be serious about the future of our young people , and if we be serious about break down barrier to opportunity , then we must get serious about the long - term funding of our youth service . rise — member will be able to see quite how many be expect to speak this afternoon , so I be introduce a three - minute time limit immediately . young people in Devon have incredible potential . across our whole county we see their creativity , resilience and ambition . we be lucky to have a dedicated network of organisation and volunteer who support they every week ; from youth worker to counsellor , community leader and peer mentor , people across Devon be step up to help our young people to get new opportunity . in Sidmouth , for example , the ymca play a big role in the local community . it host election husting last summer before the July election , and the people who come to those husting from across east Devon ask some really fantastic , search question . sadly , with the demise of the Manstone youth centre , Sidmouth have see the excellent work carry out by that centre either fold or , at least , move elsewhere in the town . the closure of this youth centre be symptomatic of the demise of youth service that we have see over the past 15 year . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the fact that the conservative Benches be empty reflect the conscious choice they make to underfund youth service , which be why many of we find our youth service in this position ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . Devon county council be run by the Conservatives from 2009 to 2025 , over which time we see a staggering 76 % real - term cut to youth service . despite that , we have some really dedicate volunteer who be do their very good with very limited mean . in Cullompton , the John Tallack youth and community centre offer weekly youth club session through Involve Mid Devon , provide space for young people to connect , be hear and develop together . with the share prosperity fund , we have see that it be also possible to serve young people on the cusp of adulthood . we have youth and adult employment hub , include those at Cullompton library and Honiton ' s Beehive community centre , which , through the share prosperity fund , provide one - to - one advice for people age 16 and over to help they gain confidence , develop skill and find employment or further training . at least , that be what we have until March 2025 , when the share prosperity fund run out . we be now very concerned about fund for youth service in Devon . Devon county council spend just £ 39 . 30 per young person , which mean that the county rank 105th out of 174 local authority for spend per person . accord to the Totnes Times , more than 10 , 000 child and young people in Devon be currently wait for mental health support . make early , this sort of investment can alleviate concern downstream , and indeed can actually save the state money spend on other service later on . this be demonstrate in academic study , with a review of evidence from 74 academic study find that youth work produce a social return on investment of up to £ 6 . 40 for every £ 1 spend . I urge we to build on what be already work and expand the brilliant example that we have across Devon , but we need to do this through long - term , sustainable funding . we need to join up youth service with mental health and education provision and create a more integrated , co - ordinate approach , enable our young people to get the help and support they deserve . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) for secure this important debate . the long - term funding of youth service be not just an issue of public spending ; we be talk about an investment in the next generation , and in build a future in which all young people can thrive . as colleague have say , we face a mental health crisis . accord to recent NHS datum , one in five child now have a probable mental health condition . I be really sadden to read the late unicef datum , which place the UK near the bottom of the league table of high - income country for the wellbeing of child and the happiness of teenager . the UK rank 27th out of 36 on child mental health , and british teenager be joint second from last for overall happiness . the economic consequence be stark , too . accord to the Government ' s " keep Britain work " report , young people with mental health condition be nearly five time more likely to be economically inactive . since 2015 , there have be a surge in the number of young people with work - limit health condition to 1 . 2 million , and more than half a million of those case come down to poor mental health . although there have be welcome progress from this government — they have launch the national youth strategy , commit to ensure more mental health support team in school , and increase investment in early intervention — the pressure on young people continue to grow . young people face challenge that be never encounter by previous generation , include the impact of smartphone and social medium , which bring increase social pressure . however , over the past decade , local service have be decimate ; they have lose more than £ 1 billion since 2010 . in my constituency , I recently meet Tahlia , who attend one of my surgery to talk about the lack of support for her child with special educational need , and the lack of youth service in our community . rather than wait for action , Tahlia take it upon herself to connect with organisation to explore how good to support the youth of Horsforth . she be work with other to transform a derelict building into a community hub for young people , with a focus on support neurodiverse need . that be a powerful example not only of community leadership , but of unmet need . I would like we to do more to support meaningful local consultation . we should bring together young people , parent , school and community group to ensure that long - term funding be target at youth service where they be need most . the investment should align with the Government ' s goal of improve mental health support in school , not as a stand - alone fix , but as a broad part of our strategy . my question for the Minister be : how can we well support community - wide , wraparound service , ensure direct funding , and bring together school , parent , youth worker and local organisation to meet that need ? what further step can we take to limit the negative impact of smartphone and social medium on young people ' s mental health , beyond support the ban on phone in school and raise the digital age of consent ? if we want a prosperous and productive future , the most powerful investment that we can make be in the opportunity , wellbeing and potential of our young people today . the simple truth be that the money we invest in our youth service and young people today will save hundred of million of pound tomorrow . More than that , it will save life , future and entire community . across Leicester South , we be proud to have incredible grassroots youth organisation change life . Pedestrian allow child with special educational need and disability to express themselves and build confidence through youth music session ; it even help they to feature in exhibition . shubaan youth project be a beacon in the Highfields area of the city , offer a safe space , a sense of connection , and even a football club . the Eyres Monsell club for young people stand tall , mentor , support and empower the next generation . those example be all too rare . too many young people have nowhere to go and no one to turn to . as the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Katie White ) say , today we learn of the alarming statistic , publish by UNICEF , that the UK rank 21st out of 36 in the happiness and wellbee league for child . that be simply unacceptable for one of the rich nation in the world . in the past 15 year , local authority spending on youth service in England have be slash by £ 1 . 2 billion in real term . that be a 73 % cut . as provision shrink , violence rise . in area where youth club have close , people age 10 to 17 be 14 % more likely to commit a crime . why ? because if we do not offer they real role model , as we use to in youth club , they will find toxic one on social medium . when there be no safe space , isolation take root , mental health decline , physical health follow , and hope disappear . youth work be a lifeline . government - fund research show that young people who access youth work be not just happy but healthy . investment in it be smart economic , because for every £ 1 invest in youth work , the social return be anywhere between £ 3 . 20 and £ 6 . 40 . youth work save we more than £ 500 million a year in cost from knife crime , antisocial behaviour and criminal justice . this be not spend ; it be save . but this robust sector be under threat . funding be short term , insecure and skew towards building , rather than people , but building alone do not change life . youth worker do , yet more than 4 , 500 youth worker have leave the sector in the last decade . a third of those who remain be on zero - hour or temporary contract , earn an average of just £ 21 , 000 a year — far below the UK average . there be several action we can take . first , we could have a national youth strategy with long - term , measurable plan to protect and strengthen youth service . secondly , we could have a dedicated youth Minister in Cabinet to ensure that youth be not an afterthought but a priority across all Government agenda . thirdly , we could have a long - term youth workforce strategy to recruit , retain and properly pay the skilled professional our young people rely on . finally , we should have ringfence , sustainable revenue funding — not just capital investment — for open - access youth service in every postcode . when we talk about youth service , we be really talk about the kind of country we want to be . we often discuss crime prevention , education and mental health in silos , but the thread that run through all those issue be clear : we need to invest in our young people through properly fund , long - term youth service . Scotland have a proud tradition in youth work . in my constituency , youth work take many form , from council programme to community - lead project in our town and village . in every case , the service work to address inequality , isolation and opportunity gap . let I highlight two example . the Callander youth project have turn a former hotel into a thrive hostel and social enterprise , and offer employability programme and training opportunity to young people . in Bannockburn , the Eastern Villages sport hub deliver sport and community activity in partnership with Milton football club , bannockburn rugby club and St Modans cricket club . that show how sport , youth work and community development can go hand in hand . those be fantastic example of grassroots ambition , but behind the energy and creativity lie a deep sense of fragility . too many project rely on a patchwork of short - term funding . I want to recognise the role of organisation such as the National Lottery Community Fund and many other that have step in to keep service run . my hon . friend be make a passionate speech , and be show why Scotland produce some of the great footballer of all time , like Billy Bremner . he mention the short - term funding of youth project . my experience from my work with young carer be that part of the issue be that new project need to be fund . do my hon . friend agree that we need long - term funding for not just exist project , but new one , too ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend , and I thank he for recognise Billy Bremner — a very good Stirling man . as I be say , many project rely on a patchwork of short - term funding , but that reliance point to a deep problem : the retreat of local government , especially under the SNP Government in Holyrood , who have deliver a real - term cut of over 15 % to core budget for local authority . that make it near impossible to deliver on statutory obligation , let alone expand service for the future . when youth service be cut , the impact be not abstract . we see it in worsen mental health , rise youth crime and lose opportunity . we know what work . youth service build confidence , boost attainment , improve wellbee and support employability , and those be generational investment , not optional extras . that be why I welcome the UK Labour Government ' s commitment to embed youth service alongside mental health and career support in community . however , Westminster action only go so far when Holyrood be pull in the opposite direction . if the SNP be serious about equity and opportunity , it must properly fund council and commit to long - term support for youth service . this be not just about budget ; it be about hope , and act on our belief in the potential of every young person . as a mother of four bear Devonians , I know that my constituency be a wonderful place to grow up . it embody the good of England ' s green and pleasant land . it be also home to a vibrant network of youth circle . I pay tribute to the fantastic sport club , big and small , across the patch , the strong presence of the young farmer club , and to the cadet branch of our armed service in Minehead , Uffculme , Doniford — though they meet in Watchet — and Tiverton . I also pay tribute to the myriad scout and guide troop across my constituency , and the King ' s award - win Exmoor Young Voices , whom I very much look forward to welcome to Parliament next week . I apologise if I have leave anybody out . in an age when screen be increasingly a fixture in daily life for the young generation , the chance to spend time in the countryside be become all the more important . it boost mental health , encourage exploration and lay the foundation for a lifelong appreciation of our natural environment . I sometimes wonder whether the great youth service in my constituency be the natural environment . I be keen to ensure that young people appreciate nature ' s ground force . however , opportunity sometimes lie elsewhere for isolated and distant community . that be a direct result of the underfunding of youth service — a short - change of future generation . I be shocked , but not entirely surprised , when I see the figure for 2023 - 24 , which indicate that Somerset fund a youth service for 11 to 19 - year - old to the tune of only £ 4 . 21 per young person . compare that to Hull , which provide £ 287 per 11 to 19 - year - old . if only the Conservatives have not run Somerset into the ground , and underfunde local government across the country . finally , as we consider the future of youth service , we can not ignore the benefit of adopt an EU youth mobility scheme . this initiative would allow young people in the UK great access to work placement , study exchange and cultural experience in Europe . it would broaden horizon and foster international co - operation . give our youth the ability to explore , grow and develop skill beyond our border be not just beneficial to they ; it strengthen our economy and enrich our society . surely that scheme would represent one of the great service to the young people of Tiverton and Minehead . either we get serious about the issue face our youth service , or we fail to tackle they head - on and risk lose what we have , which would be detrimental to all . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) for secure this fantastic debate . I experience the youth work profession as a young person through my local youth club , and as a member of the UK Youth Parliament in its early day , so I know first hand how important youth work be , and how much of it have be cut due to austerity . only last week , I go to see Gravesham Youth Council , which have be run for 25 year — an incredible achievement , give what have be go on . I run a session on the national youth strategy call " Deliver you " , a consultation in the form of a delivery service for young people . in the spirit of food delivery , I present some ingredient . first , young people should be truly listen to , engage on matter that affect they , and empower through youth voice mechanism at each level of government . in that , they should be support by youth work . there should be a legal duty on Government and local government to support youth work . secondly , we need long term , fully fund , preventive , universal , open - access youth work in all area , not an early help or social work - lite model , although those can be use for target help . thirdly , we need a train , qualified and invest - in youth work profession , in which qualification be recognise . the term " youth worker " should be protect in the same way as the term " doctor " be , or " lawyer " . fourthly and finally , we need in primary legislation a duty on local authority to provide youth work , so that it be never see as an easy cut again . now that be a delivery order that will truly nourish our young people across the land . through a statutory youth service Act and a long - term workforce strategy , we can address shortage and upskill youth worker , so that they can deliver for young people . I hope the Minister will agree that that would be a step in the right direction . we have listen as a Government to the vote at 16 campaign . twenty year ago , I be at the forefront of the campaign , and at a recent Liaison Committee hearing , the Prime Minister and Government commit to deliver vote at 16 as part of our manifesto commitment . there have be so many year of campaign on the issue , and I pay tribute to all the young people who have join in that effort . we should welcome those who be join the campaign now , and jump on the bandwagon at the last minute . we need to reverse the trend and see good , open - access youth work return to Gravesham and the country . youth work work , and I hope that the national youth strategy will deliver the hope of so many young people . I thank the hon . member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) for bring this important debate to the Chamber today . youth service be not a luxury ; they be a lifeline . at their good , they provide young people with a safe place to go , trust adult to talk to and opportunity to grow , learn and thrive . yet all across the country , we be see those vital service hollow out , stretch thin or shut down altogether . I want to share an example from my constituency . Sussex Community Development Association , or SCDA , a respected local social enterprise base in Newhaven , have recently have to take the painful decision to close its regular youth club session at Newhaven youth centre . that be not due to a lack of demand — far from it . indeed , some of the young people who use the service credit the youth worker with save their life . like so many organisation , scda be be squeeze by rise wage bill and the knock - on effect of national insurance change . it be now face an additional £ 20 , 000 in cost from the increase in the minimum wage alone and a staggering £ 70 , 000 in NI contribution . that be £ 90 , 000 in total for a not - for - profit organisation that support young people in one of the most deprived community in the south - east of England . furthermore , because it be a large non - profit employer , it do not even qualify for the employment allowance that be mean to cushion the blow . it be be penalise for do the right thing , create real job and reinveste in our community . scda be try to keep the flame alive by continue to support youth voice through the Newhaven young people ' s forum , offer digital resource and make sure that Newhaven youth centre remain a youth hub . however , without secure , long - term funding , SCDA and so many other will be constantly force to make impossible choice . that story be not unique to Newhaven . in recent year , more than £ 1 billion have be cut from youth service across the UK . accord to the ymca , local authority spending on youth service have drop by more than 70 % . we do not need another round of bidding war for limited fund . instead , we need a proper long - term settlement that recognise that invest in young people prevent future crisis in mental health , crime , education and employment . it be not only the right thing to do morally ; it make economic sense too . I also urge Ministers to review how change in employment policy , from the national insurance threshold to minimum wage differential , be impact voluntary and community organisation . social enterprise such as SCDA should not be leave to bear disproportionate burden because they choose to create good , permanent job . if we be serious about give young people a stake in their future , we need to give youth service a stake in ours . we need not just warm word , but funding that match the scale of their impact . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) on secure this important debate . I also want to take this opportunity to congratulate a lead youth provider ; I congratulate Aspire in Arts in Nuneaton on its 10 - year anniversary . from numerous conversation with the leader of the youth group , Amina , I know about the organisation ' s struggle over the past 10 year . the success of its project be truly a testament to the dedication of the staff ; it be a true labour of love . give that the ymca have estimate that Warwickshire county council have cut a staggering 84 % from our youth budget since 2010 , it be amazing that aspire in Arts have develop a fantastic local asset that provide support for hundred of young people . it add value to our young people ' s life with art , game , cooking and health provision and education . the music provision be incredible and be about to get even well , as performance space and a recording studio be establish . the organisation be build the capital culture and creative industry talent that we need for the future , while truly enhance life and broaden horizon . crucially , Aspire in Arts provide a safety net , an open door and a safe place for young people who have nowhere else to go ; those who need support and those at risk of bullying , harassment and exploitation . it also give a positive choice to those at risk of enter into criminality . indeed , we already know that youth provision reduce the rate of youth reoffende by 13 % and reduce the severity of the crime . the positive impact of youth service transform life and map out a pathway to embrace passion and nurture talent , support young people to learn the skill that they need to live successful life in the future . in Nuneaton , more than 20 % of our young people be economically inactive . youth crime , antisocial behaviour and youth violence be enormous issue that have result in tragic outcome in recent week . aspire have be hold the frontline , support these young people through unmet mental health and SEND need and provide alternative provision when the barrier to attend school be just too great . I be wait for an opportunity to mention young carer , who be a hugely important part of the great picture of young people and who often face many barrier to education . do my hon . friend agree that any consultation with young people should include young carer , as have my consultation in Harlow ? absolutely . it be clear from interaction with young carer and parent of child who be not in school that the gratitude for youth service and the value they add be immense . the casework story from youth provision in Nuneaton be often harrowing : young people in crisis and on the edge of suicide , self - harm and mental health episode , and victim of violence and abuse . the open - door policy mean that we have a safety net to catch and support they . the net that the organisation provide save life , help they rebuild and offer support for a bright future . evidence suggest that £ 1 invest in youth provision result in £ 3 . 40 to £ 6 for the taxpayer , but I think the value it add be incalculable , especially when we consider the impact on other service , such as health , education , policing and justice . aspire in Arts work collaboratively with other youth group to provide service across the north of Warwickshire and to establish ambitious , inspire plan to support our young people . it would like to do more , and with secure funding instead of piecemeal , day - to - day , hand - to - mouth funding , it would be able to secure a place for young people across Nuneaton and to support everyone . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) on secure this timely and essential debate . I know she be a champion of not just young people but local government , and her speech eloquently demonstrate the urgent need for action to build a fit - for - purpose youth service . rather like " Star Wars " , my youth feel a long time ago in a galaxy far , far away , but I be one of those young people live in a village that benefit hugely from the presence of a brick - and - mortar youth centre staff by highly skilled youth worker — a profession that have be demonstrably under - appreciated and wrongly devalue for the past decade and a half . as a young man , the centre not just give I a secure space to play game , learn skill and socialise , but — thank to the support worker — give I support through challenging time in my life . we do not talk in such term then , but it be accessible and non - judgmental mental health support available on my doorstep — something not available to my Redditch and village constituent now . perversely , as the internet , social medium and YouTube influencer have emerge , with the challenge that that have pose to our young people , we have witness the dismantling of our youth service . if we combine that with the impact of the cost of live crisis and covid - 19 , we can not ignore the fact that our young people face far more challenge than we do grow up . as a parish , district and county councillor — albeit one of the young one — I have witness how local government cut have decimate our youth service . my hon . friend be make a passionate speech about the importance of youth centre provision . do he agree that the Conservatives ' dismantle of Oxfordshire county council youth service by close 19 of the 25 youth centre that exist prior to 2010 do irreparable damage to young people in Oxfordshire ? every council that I serve on be also conservative , and they decimate our youth service . it be a real shame to see the conservative Benches empty today . I be grateful for the fact that the Government have listen to the voice of young people and launch the national youth strategy , but let we not be under any illusion : there be a lot of work to do . the benefit of youth service and youth work be painfully obvious and fit perfectly into this Government ' s mission of economic growth , safe street , an NHS fit for the future , and break down barrier to opportunity . I have speak many time in this Chamber about mental health , especially raise concern about young people . a fit - for - purpose and accessible youth service could make significant progress in address these grow challenge . we can give young people a space and the support they need in their community to drown out the voice of misogynistic influence , which be poison our young man ' s mind and put our sister and daughter at risk . it can be a place for education and aspiration that protect our young people from the nefarious actor promote violence and crime . let we be bold and decide to invest appropriately in our youth service for the long term . let we replace the opaque statutory minimum with a specific investment minimum , ensure accessibility for all young people , include those with neurodivergence challenge , and set great standard for those deliver service in order to protect the youth worker profession . surely there can be no great or more important investment in our nation that an investment in the next generation . rise — I be keen to get everybody in , so I will have to reduce the speak limit to two minute . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) for secure this critical debate . youth service be integral to enable young people to live safe , healthy and happy life , but we can not deny that issue and policy relate to child and young people often get push aside . we must recognise the contribution that they make and will make to our society by ensure that they have access to youth service . I be so pleased to hear the Government ' s announcement early this year on develop a new national youth strategy . just last week , I hold a strategy session in my Ribble Valley constituency and hear from the fantastic Bowland high school council about what young people in my area need and want . it be a chance to hear they talk openly about their concern . I be take aback by the number of student who discuss the stress , worry and pressure that they feel , particularly in relation to their exam — I wish all those start their gcse this week good luck . that emphasise the need for youth service to support young people through these big life stage . they also discuss the lack of place to go where they could feel truly safe . youth provision be personal for I . I have be a member and volunteer of Girlguiding since I start Brownies when I be seven , and I serve on the Girlguiding national board for six year , so I have see at first hand the impact that such youth movement can have on young people . I would like to think that my confidence and self - belief as I stand in this House today come from that provision . that be the power that good youth service have . I highlight to the Government how powerful investment can be when it follow exist infrastructure and good practice . many organisation , such as guide and scout , have exist for over a century , but they be reliant on volunteering , and modern lifestyle can not sustain that . the framework that those organisation have develop be cut - edge , however , so I welcome build on those provision . one young woman I speak to recently say that the private stage school she have enjoy prove too expensive for she in the long run . I would love it if we subsidise great local youth offer where possible , rather than reinvent the wheel . do so would also support local business . we must ensure that youth provision be extend to our rural community and can be access across the country . I would echo my — order . I call Warinder Juss . some 93 % of young people who have attend a youth centre say that it have make a positive difference to their life . they have come away happy , healthy and more confident in themselves and their future . from reduce level of knife crime and antisocial behaviour to improve the education attainment level of our young people , youth service not only deliver outstanding benefit to our child but provide exceptional value for money . the Way youth zone in my constituency be a clear example of the value of long - term investment in youth service . I have visit the way many time and see at first hand the extraordinary impact that the service have have on our young people . they have overcome their fear , discover their passion and feel ready to make a positive impact on the world . one attendee say that the way have inspire she to study cyber - security at university , while another confide that the way be the only place where they could manage to get a hot meal for the day . those service be too fragile under the current funding system , however . they can not survive on good will alone ; they need consistent long - term funding . over the past 14 year of conservative government , when Government funding plummet by more than 70 % , 750 youth club have be lose in England . our young people be pay the price : one in eight young people be not in full - time education or training , one in five have mental health condition , and one in five be consistently absent from school . we must now make investment in our young people and youth service a priority . the Way youth zone deliver an impressive return of £ 13 per £ 1 invest in child ' s wellbee . I support the Government ' s plan for change , but I ask they to commit to sustainable , long - term funding for our youth service . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) on secure this debate and on her excellent speech . youth service be fundamental in my constituency , where in some ward , one in three child be live in poverty . that be completely unacceptable and show how important the work of the child poverty taskforce will be . of course , fund for these vital service be cut by the Tories , but in Scotland , too , under the SNP there have be a 27 % decrease in funding in real term for youth work since 2015 - 16 . this be fail the young people of Scotland who most need our support . instead , the work of charity such as Fife Gingerbread and Includem should be support with long - term funding arrangement . Includem ' s " keep connected " project , deliver with our Minds Matter , support young people in Fife to promote positive mental wellbeing and reduce stress . such support be all the more important when I understand that in some health board area in Scotland , child and adolescent mental health service be no long offer a pathway to a diagnosis of autism , which can cost more than £ 4 , 000 to secure privately . that be shocking . the Scottish Government have be promise to deliver multi - year funding settlement for youth service for nearly 20 year but have fail to deliver beyond isolated example — welcome as they be — include in Glasgow , and a national fair funding pilot . after 20 year , this should be the approach across the whole sector . year - to - year funding be a barrier to recruitment and retention of staff , and their ability to build the trust and familiarity that be so vital to the young people they support . if we be to achieve a fairer , well society for all our young people , sustainable funding for these vital service will be essential at all level of government throughout our country , and in particular those community , include my own , where too many young people today still do not have the life chance that should be their right . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) on secure this debate . in Derby , there be so many organisation that work really hard with our fantastic young people , whether that be Children First Derby , which provide mentoring service and support for vulnerable young child and their family , or Community Action Derby , which , through its Derby Youth Alliance , bring together partner to support vulnerable young people in our community . my hon . friend will know that we have some incredible youth service in Derby . he have mention some , but there be also the local YMCA , the Derby Youth Alliance and DE23 Active . do he agree that it be disgraceful how many other service have close because of tory austerity cut ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the austerity cut have affect so many group in Derby that either no long exist or have have to scale back their service , and it be truly shocking . the Derby County Community Trust do fantastic work . safe and Sound also do excellent work in our city . the Derby promise , which we recently launch , work so hard to offer aspirational experience to young people in our community but could do so much more if properly fund . we know that invest in the future start with invest in our young people — charity such as the one my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) and I have mention in Derby do exactly that — but the Tories ignore this . they decimate funding for youth service , as we have hear from speaker after speaker this afternoon . Derby be no different , with youth service spending fall by a staggering 81 % since 2010 . do my hon . friend the Minister agree that long - term funding for youth service be crucial , so that we can enable every young person in Derby and across the UK to thrive ? in 2008 , the then Labour Government launch the Myplace fund for the development of world - class youth centre in some of the most deprived area of England . thank to that fund , and the vision and commitment of local businessman Brian Scowcroft , the Carlisle youth zone open its door in April 2011 . since then , the young people at Carlisle youth zone have host royal visitor , design the livery for a local bus and put politician like I through their pace . but Carlisle youth zone be not just a place for young people to enjoy activity and socialise ; it be also a place for parent , with its newly launch parent zone give local parent a forum to discuss the issue affect they , and it be a place for business , with a thriving patron programme provide much - need funding , as well as directly link business with their potential future employee . carlisle youth zone show what funding and partnership with business can achieve , and the impact that it can have — an impact that be well describe in the word of one young user , who say : " I have do so much independently that I do not think be possible outside of the Youth Zone . without the support and encouragement from everyone , I do not think I would have have the confidence to go to university , work and interact with people … or learn so many skill . " that be the impact that good youth service can have , the opportunity they can deliver , and the potential they can unlock . let I start by recognise the work of local youth worker in Huddersfield . despite the financial outlook , there be many incredible organisation , include Positive Stepz , Conscious Youth hub , central Stars youth club , Team Kick Start , Yorkshire Community Development , Empower , Boxpower , Temple Well - being , Kirklees youth alliance , and Kirklees council ' s detach youth team . I also want to mention the foundation of Huddersfield Town football club and Huddersfield Giants rugby league club , which work with young people across our community . those organisation deliver outstanding service , offer young people opportunity to thrive . however , they continue to face financial constraint and constant short - term funding round . we be see the consequence of the reduction in youth service provision , as organise criminal gang lure young child into county line network and organised criminality . sadly , we have see the devastating consequence of knife crime in Huddersfield , with young life lose , too many parent deal with consequence that no parent should ever face , community break , and too many child and young people leave with mental scar . to recover from those year of neglect , youth service need sustainable long - term funding . when I meet young people from Huddersfield , they say they have find it increasingly difficult to access work experience opportunity since the covid pandemic . they also tell I that too many of those opportunity come down to informal parent network , which see those from the low - income background lose out . in his Labour conference speech in 2023 , the Prime Minister say : " imagine if a whole country say we back your potential … then look what we could build . a country where every contribution be equally respect . where you don ' t have to change who you be just to get on . where whatever your background you feel secure . " we must now make that our drive ambition . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) for secure this debate , in which we have very much be remind of the importance of make choice , include political choice . I pay tribute to North Lanarkshire council and the community learn development team , because they have continue to invest in youth work . in the last year alone , 1 , 200 young people have be involve in localise group in my community , access Scottish Qualifications Authority qualification that they be not able to do outwith . I particularly pay tribute to the group of people who be not access youth centre and emphasise the importance of be able to engage with young people where they be . detach youth work be grow again for young people who have no desire to be inside those building — the most vulnerable people . build positive relationship with youth worker can help they to make well - inform choice , reduce risk - take behaviour , low complaint of antisocial behaviour , close pathway to criminal activity and make our community safe . that be happen in the Carbrain part of my constituency . in the brief time available to I , I also want to talk about Kirkintilloch high school , which have see the benefit of a youth development worker work alongside teacher . youth development worker be trust professional in a different way , and they work closely with young people who do not engage with the people they have to call " Miss " or " Mr " ; they get those relationship , and they should also be value in this debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) for secure this important debate . the issue be close to my heart because I spend many year as a youth worker in Norfolk , include work for Norfolk charity the Benjamin Foundation , as the manager of the Meet up caf é in Thetford . I pay tribute to youth worker across the country , include in my county of Norfolk . it be a rewarding job , but it come with many challenge and frustration . youth work have bear the brunt of many cut , and in too many place service be now a shadow of their former self . under the previous Government , there be a real - term cut of more than £ 1 billion in spending on youth service among local authority in England , so no wonder more than 50 % of all council - run youth centre close . I watch in disbelief in Norfolk as our Conservative - control county council entirely scrap the county ' s youth service , include important detach youth work , and close the connexion training and career advice service . fill that void in many place be charity , include the Swan youth project in Downham Market in my constituency , which I have visit on a number of occasion . it provide a whole - system youth group , help with a variety of need . Anna and the team at Swan provide a crucial service for young people in that area , help to provide support not just for young people , but for the whole family , offer a truly holistic service . I be pleased that this Government have a bold ambition to remove barrier to opportunity for young people . we need to respond through both national and local government , and under this Labour Government we be meet the challenge head on . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) for secure the debate . far be it from I to come to the Chamber and speak only about myself , but I want to share my personal experience . I have often say that , have it not be for the youth worker in my community , I would not be stand here as the Member of Parliament for Hertford and Stortford . I drop out of sixth form at 17 and go straight to work in Hertford town centre . I want to find my path , but I be leave feel directionless , struggle to connect with the right opportunity . I can not put into word the difference that the support of local authority youth worker — like Russell , who I have mention in the Chamber before — make to I , as a young person who could not see the way forward . a young person in the same position today will not have access to a similar level . why be that ? it be not because our youth worker be any less passionate or determined to support our young people . no , it be because when the cut come under the last government , youth service be first on the chop block , leave a generation of young people behind . in Hertfordshire , there have be a 50 % real - term cut to youth service spending since 2010 - 11 . one in eight young people be not in employment , education or training . they be at the sharp end of crisis in mental health and in provision for child with special educational need and disability , with charity and voluntary organisation strain every sinew to fill the gap and ensure that our young people do not miss out . that be the legacy of the Conservative party when it come to young people , and it be a real disappointment to see conservative Benches so empty this afternoon . in my remain time , I would like to pay tribute to the Thirst youth caf é and the FUTUREhope group — charity and voluntary organisation that have provide fantastic support in our community . it be a pleasure to visit they when we be host consultation in my constituency on the national youth strategy . I hugely welcome the work that this Government be undertake to support our young people , and I hope to play a role in that . as a math teacher , a former councillor and a dad of two wonderful child , I know the importance of youth provision . we have hear from member from across the House that the 73 % cut in youth funding since 2010 have have devastating consequence ; in Leeds , that figure be 83 % . Leeds have manage to negate some of the consequence with excellent work through the Child Friendly Leeds initiative , and our youth service worker know how to squeeze their budget until the pip squeak — they know how to stretch out their finance and deliver for young people in my area — but they can only do so much . as my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) say , a patchwork of organisation have come in to fill the gap . there be many such organisation in Leeds South West and Morley that I want to pay tribute to , include volunteer - lead sport team that have offer provision for young people , such as Wortley football club , East Ardsley cricket club and Morley rugby club — I could go on . I also pay tribute to Leeds United football club . over the past few year , I have work with the club , which have agree to purchase a piece of land in my constituency that it be go to transform into Wortley ' s Wembley . it will provide training opportunity for young people and a hub for so many in my community to come together and play sport . we might find the next Kalvin Phillips — who know ? hopefully this time he or she will stay at Leeds . I would like the Minister to consider several recom - mendation on youth provision . we need strong statutory protection : " as be reasonably practicable " be the ultimate get - out clause , and local authority do not necessarily have to follow it , so we must consider change that . we need to increase funding — the 6 . 8 % increase in funding be welcome . we need to ensure that we tailor our service towards special educational need student and young people , because they deserve youth provision too . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) , a fellow age millennial , for secure this debate . I speak not only as a parent who would love to see well - fund youth service , but as somebody who have witness the consequence of short - term thinking when it come to youth service . in 2014 , Conservative - lead Staffordshire county council take the callous and short - sighted decision to close our youth service completely . the complete emptiness of the Opposition Benches speak volume about whether the Conservatives ' attitude to youth service have improve in the past 11 year . for they , this be a line on a budget sheet , but for community in my county it be the closure of 38 youth club and the loss of 400 job . however , the real cost of these decision lie not in number but in the experience of young people in my constituency . the day - to - day impact of cut often go unnoticed , but the long - term impact be impossible to ignore . as an antidote to the gloomy picture that I may have paint , I will mention a couple of the incredible organisation that , despite the closure of our youth service , be do incredible work . the Staffordshire Council of Voluntary Youth Services , fondly know as SCVYS , offer practical support to charity and local group and ensure that the voice of child and young people be hear . the VYSIONS youth service be create by child and young people in Brereton and Rugeley and provide a range of programme and activity , from shoot and fish to art and craft , in some of our most deprived white working - class community . I welcome the investment announce by the Government but , in closing , I urge the Minister to ensure that that funding be front - load in area , such as Staffordshire , that have no council youth service leave whatsoever . I sympathise with colleague who represent inner - city area and have see deep cut , but I ask they to imagine a world in which their youth service no long exist at all : that be the world that my constituent have live in for the past eleven year . all of we here have the high hope for our young people , and I be incredibly glad that once again we have a government that do too . let we be frank : this generation have be rob of the opportunity that it deserve . let we think about the record of the last government , because other have touch on it : child trust fund be cut , sure Start centre be closed , school budget be cut in real term , play field be sell off , and free swimming , the education maintenance allowance and connexion be cut . that be terrible . the statistic that stand out to I the most be the fact that youth service in County Durham be cut by 80 % between 2010 and 2020 . it be no wonder that one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training , that we have a five - year waiting list for CAMHS and that one in five people have a mental health condition . that have to change . I pay tribute to some of the excellent people and group in my constituency who step up , such as the Auckland youth and community centre , lead by Maxine Jordan and her team ; those who run the scout , the guide and church group that provide youth service ; and the parent who simply step up to fill a gap . however , the truth be that that be not enough , and we know that . I call on the Government to get to grip with this issue . I know that this Government have have a terrible economic inheritance , with high debt and tax and nothing to show for it in public service . [ interruption . ] I think the shadow Minister be point out that growth be up under this government . this will take funding and legislative change on statutory duty , because we can not allow this generation to be waste . we owe it to this generation to keep the promise of Britain that it will do well , not bad , than our generation . have dedicated space , support and community for young people can transform the trajectory of someone ' s life . I and many member here , I be sure , benefit from have a youth provision . I take part in activity that I would not have do otherwise . the previous Government strip funding away from local authority be a travesty , because it mean that youth service , which be vital but mainly discretionary spend , be often one of the first thing to be cut . our child and adolescent mental health service be overstretch , and too often young people have be leave to fall through the crack . investment in youth service be therefore not an extra ; it be a form of frontline mental health support . the need for funding for youth service in Derbyshire Dales be particularly clear . since 2010 , spend on youth service in Derbyshire have fall by two third in real term . those cut have have particularly damaging implication for rural area , as young people in rural community face limited public transport option and more challenging access to employment . young people today be grow up experience the negative impact of social medium addiction alongside the loss of youth service . as a result , they be experience a toxic cocktail of challenge that be have an impact on their wellbeing . a YouGov poll find that more than 65 % of adolescent say they have feel alone " often " or " sometimes " in the last fortnight . with youth centre and community space be close across the country , it be no wonder that young people be cry out for support . since 2010 , there have be a fall of more than 50 % in the number of young people admit to A & E with injury sustain outside . of course , that be a good thing , but it imply that young people be just not go out and participate activity as they use to . youth service do not just provide a lifeline for young people ; they also set they up with skill and support for life . very often a youth worker could be the one who turn around a person ' s life . [ interruption . ] I be sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker — I have run out of time . youth service across our country have be decimate , and we all see the consequence unfold , often tragically , on our street . since 2010 , fund for youth service have fall by 73 % as a direct result of austerity . this issue be deeply personal to I , as I grow up with a youth club on my doorstep in Ashmore Park , one of around 30 local youth centre that we have lose over the past 15 year . the closure of that safe space leave a real hole in the community , one that I be proud to serve year later as a deputy headteacher . despite that widespread loss , there be still community effort that forge ahead , such as the Loft youth club at the Hive in New Invention . that youth club be run by people who care deeply , who know our community and who keep go , often without the security of long - term funding . a shine example city - wide be the Way youth zone . the way offer more than just activity ; it offer friendship and opportunity and make memory . it be power by passionate staff who believe in our youth . I think of my young constituent Kira , who find her safe space , her voice and her confidence through the way . through inclusive programme and nurture mentor , Kira have grow into an incredible young person who be determined to give back . her story be one of many , and it be testament to what be possible when we invest properly in our youth . we must shift from crisis response to prevention , which mean a dedicated , long - term funding stream to protect youth service . for many of our community , youth service be a lifeline . they provide essential support to young people , help they to navigate the complexity of adolescence and the transition into adulthood , but unfortunately those service have disappear across the country . the decline of youth service in town such as Halesowen have not make headline , but it be be feel every single day . I recently sit down with young people age between 16 and 25 — school leaver and graduate , some with master ' s degree , all full of ambition but struggle to find support . these be young people who have work hard , who have dream and aspiration and be eager to contribute to society , yet they find themselves face barrier at every turn . they tell I that there be nowhere safe to go after school , that mental health service take month to access , and that they be send out CV after CV but get nothing back . one young woman say : " it feel like we ' re expect to survive , not succeed . " in many way , she be right . in Halesowen there be no council - run youth centre . that be not a coincidence ; it be the result of political choice . under Conservative - run Dudley council , over £ 42 million have be cut from local service . in 2023 the borough ' s youth service be shut down entirely , with youth worker redeploy , outreach team cut and community asset sell off . council document show 157 service reduction , and youth provision be the first to go . we know that such cut have real - world consequence . the National Youth Agency have find that youth worker play a critical role in prevent crime , improve mental health and keep young people in education , training or work . when that support be take away , the risk grow . we see high rate of youth unemployment , increase mental health issue and a rise in antisocial behaviour . the young people I speak to be not ask for favour ; they be ask for fairness and a Government who have not give up on they . they want to be see , hear and support . they want to know that their future matter . we owe they well , and it be time that we deliver . I thank hon . member for work with I — we get all the Back - Bench contribution in . we now come to the Front Benchers . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) on secure this debate , because youth service be critical infrastructure in our community . they be not luxury , or a nice - to - have ; they be a vital lifeline , offer young people safety , support and opportunity at the time they need it most . there can be no doubt that we be , perhaps more than ever before , engage in a battle for the heart and mind of young people . there have be debate and panic in this place and throughout the nation for generation concern the challenge face young people , but what be different in this moment be the sheer scale of the collapse in physical community space and , as we be here to focus on , youth service . many great point have be raise already , but I will focus on the most egregious consequence of not protect and enhance youth service : knife crime . in the fight against knife crime in London , these service be vital , because knife crime be not only a criminal justice issue but a public health issue . like any other public health crisis , the solution lie in early intervention , community - base support and sustained investment . that start with our youth service . in the past 15 year , youth service across England have be cut by more than 70 % . that be more than half of youth centre go , thousand of train youth worker lose , and community leave to pick up the piece . research by the Institute for Fiscal Studies show that when a youth centre close , young people age 10 to 17 become 14 % more likely to commit a crime . in area already battle poverty , inequality and deprivation , a youth centre can mean the difference between safety and tragedy . in London we see more than 16 , 000 incident of knife crime last year . that be thousand of family affect and life change forever . we know that young people susceptible to commit this form of violence require sustained relationship with service that can help they choose safe path and that can offer child that vital third space when school be struggle to maintain a learn environment and home be a worryingly hostile place . they be service that protect young people ' s mental health in such troubling environment , and it be fitting that we be have this debate in Mental Health Awareness Week . perpetuate the situation by fail to boost local council finance , whereby many council have no choice but to cut youth service , be bad than short - termism ; it be a failure to allow council and other key stakeholder in the community to do what they want to do : invest in young people ' s future and keep they away from crime . in Sutton and Cheam I have hear that many skilled youth worker be deter from work in these decline service , and not just because they be not equipped to do their job properly , but because the financial pressure mean short - termism in grant from the Mayor ' s Office for Policing and Crime and a reliance on temporary contract . we all know that local authority be under immense pressure . many be on the brink and , without proper funding from central Government , they simply can not deliver what our community need , so that must come first . but we Liberal Democrats be call for more . first , we be call for a statutory duty on all local authority to provide youth service and pre - charge diversion scheme for young people up to the age of 25 . right now , access to youth diversion — the very intervention that steer young people away from offend — be a postcode lottery . that be utterly unacceptable . by make it a statutory duty , we would ensure that every young person in every community can access support before it be too late , not just after a crime have be commit . we also want to see a national youth strategy that be co - produce with young people themselves , not cook up in Whitehall without their voice . if we be serious about solve the knife crime crisis , we must treat young people not as risk to be manage , but as partner in prevention , with huge potential to be realise . the public health approach demand early intervention , but early intervention can not happen if youth service be simply not there any more . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the hon . member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) for secure this debate . I know that she have regularly champion this issue since come to this place . as Lord Cameron famously say , " I be the future once . " — [ Official Report , 13 July 2016 ; Vol . 613 , c . 294 . ] although I be no long view as one of the young member in this place , I be grateful for the opportunity , on behalf of his Majesty ' s official Opposition , and in the limited time available , to close today ' s important debate on the long - term funding of youth service . this subject go to the heart of how we support the next generation to thrive , contribute and belong , and it be crucial to the future of our great country . in government , we allocate £ 560 million over three year to the national youth guarantee , which ensure that every young person in England age between 11 and 18 have regular access to club and activity , something to do after school , experience away from home , and opportunity to volunteer . as part of that , we allocate £ 300 million to youth facility , improve and develop over 300 of they . my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) always make sure that young people be around the table when we make decision that would affect they . we make sure that young people be not just talk about but listen to , and next week the shadow ministerial team will host a youth roundtable as part of our wide policy renewal . I want to be clear that conservative Members believe passionately in the power of civil society . we believe in the social fabric that hold this country together — not just the big institution of state , but the small charity , volunteer , faith group , sport coach and mentor who give their time not for profit , but for purpose . they include such organisation as the National Citizen Service , which the Labour Government have cancel . More than 750 , 000 young people participate in that programme over 13 year , and it have a 93 % satisfaction rate , which be something that this government can only dream of . we recognise the vital role of youth worker , who be often unsung and under - resource , but who be always on the frontline . we must be honest : money alone will not solve all the challenge face young people . a cheque from Whitehall , however large , will not guarantee that a child find a mentor , stay off the street or get a first step on the ladder . however , since come into office , this Government have make it more difficult for every single charity in this country to provide their essential service . the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) recognise that in his speech , and he be the only member who speak about the national insurance hike . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , and as the Chancellor know when she make her decision , youth charity , like all employer , pay national insurance contribution , and they need to find additional fund to cover the rise in those contribution . accord to the National Council for Voluntary Organisations , the change could cost the charity sector an additional £ 1 . 4 billion per year . for small charity with limited reserve and limited core funding , that will seem like an insurmountable challenge . yesterday , we hear from representative of Place2Be , a lead child ' s mental health charity that have provide expert , school - base mental health support over the past 30 year . they tell we that thank to this Labour Government ' s national insurance hike , they now have to find an extra half a million pound every single year , just to pay tax . as a direct result of this Government ' s decision , it be likely that few child will receive the care and support that they need in an environment that be familiar to they . that be why we support exempt charity with an annual income of less than £ 1 million from the national insurance rise . however , Labour Members cruelly vote against that , and they must reflect on that , now that they be in government ; they be in control . when the Conservatives be in government , we do not just talk about aspiration ; we build the condition for it . we empower local community and launch countrywide programme , such as the National Citizen Service , which have a prove track record of success before this Government close it down . the Labour Government be dismantle the NCS . in do so , they be actively and deliberately limit the life chance of this generation and generation to come , without give we any answer on what come next . I hope that this Government will start to think properly about young people . instead of make young people ' s live more difficult , the Government should put they at the heart of policymake , and should reverse their callous tax on charity , youth organisation and business , which will likely mean a rise in youth unemployment this year . it be time for action , not word . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) on secure this important debate on long - term investment in the youth sector , follow a similar debate in Westminster Hall a few month ago . I be grateful to all member who contribute to this debate . the shadow Minister perhaps do not read the room again — although it be rather empty on his side of the House . I will address some of his point later . I want to make it clear that this Government value youth service . we know that they can play a vital role in young people ' s life , support their health , wellbee and personal development . we also know that the support that youth service provide be under pressure . since 2010 , local council have reduce spending on youth service by 73 % . that be equal to the sector lose over £ 1 billion . that have mean few job , less co - ordination and too many young people miss out on the benefit of high - quality youth service . we be of course navigate a challenging financial period , but even in tough time , our commitment to find long - term , sustainable way of deliver effective support remain the same . my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East open the debate by paint a very powerful picture . she speak about have the freedom to fail , and speak as someone who grow up just before social medium , I really appreciate that point . perhaps , in the word of my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , that make I an age millennial ; I be not sure how I feel about that . my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East also speak about the huge mental health challenge , about one in five young people have a mental health condition , and about 16 to 24 - year - old be the lonely people in society . my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) echo that , and this be of course Mental Health Awareness Week . I recognise the point that my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East make about opportunity exist everywhere , but too often support be a postcode lottery , and we want to change that . as this debate have highlight , young people face increasingly complex challenge , from mental ill health and the cost of live to worry about crime and violence . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) , make that point powerfully . support young people and ensure that their voice be hear be a challenge not just for national Government , but at every level of government . strong local leadership be of course essential to deliver high - quality youth service . that be why , in the come week , we will launch the local youth transformation pilot , work with approximately 12 local authority and their partner across England . the pilot will support council to take a leading role in plan and provide youth service that meet the need of their community . it will offer tailor support to rebuild local capability , improve co - ordination and ensure that service be align with council ' responsibility and young people ' s wellbee . many hon . member have mention example from their constituency , include my hon . friend the Members for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) , for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) , for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) , for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) and for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) . my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) speak very powerfully , and I be pleased to visit the Way Youth Zone with he last year . my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) give an impressive list of group in her constituency , and I know she be really passionate about this subject , as she lead a recent Westminster Hall debate on a similar topic . I hear Members ’ speech , but as I have not respond to all of they individually , I be happy to meet or write to they . will the Minister give way ? in the interest of time , I will not . as the Member of Parliament for Barnsley South , I know from my area about the huge contribution and value that youth service and provision bring . I be think of organisation such as the Barnsley youth choir , through which hundred of young people be give amazing experience , opportunity and skill . over the last couple of month , I have meet the Barnsley Youth Council , the Barnsley YMCA and ChileyPep to hear their idea for how the Government can support young people . those conversation have make it clear that we need a long - term national direction . that be why we be develop a new 10 - year national youth strategy , which will set out a clear vision for support young people now and in the future . the strategy will guide work across Government Departments , and it will help make sure that policy and service that affect young people be well join up . it will also move we away from a one - size - fit - all approach . we know that what work in one area may not work in another , and the strategy will support flexible solution that reflect local need . that important point about join - up service be also make by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Katie White ) . we be co - produce the strategy with young people . their voice be shape the priority and the outcome . we want to put more power in the hand of young people and their community . my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) speak about the power and role of the youth voice . over 14 , 000 young people fill in our survey as part of our youth strategy work , so I assure the shadow Minister that we be put young people at the heart of our approach . a long - term approach be essential . young people deserve consistent support now and over the next decade . of course , youth worker , both pay and voluntary , be central to deliver that support . they build trust relationship , strengthen community and provide the vital support that young people rely on . however , after year of cut , the workforce be under pressure and secure role be hard to find . as we develop the national youth strategy , we be focus on rebuild the workforce through well training , recruitment and long - term support . this be our chance to ensure that youth worker and volunteer be equip , support and recognise for the important work that they do . my hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) speak powerfully from his experience . in partnership with the National Youth Agency , we be help more people , especially those from under - represent background , to gain recognise qualification . it be clear that youth service need stable , long - term funding to thrive . today , the Secretary of State have announce our funding plan for this financial year . I direct hon . member to her write ministerial statement for further detail , but I would highlight the £ 28 million that we will put into programme that help young people to grow , gain confidence and feel connected . that funding will expand access to trust group , such as the Duke of Edinburgh award scheme and Uniformed Youth ; go towards explore and outdoor learning opportunity ; and boost open access to local youth service . the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) speak about the huge benefit of be outside . over £ 85 million in capital funding be be allocate to the well youth space programme , include £ 26 million in new funding to renovate and equip youth centre across the country . that , of course , build on the work be do through the youth investment fund . the future of Government funding beyond this financial year will be shape by our work on the national youth strategy and dependent on spend review outcome . we want the funding to be as impactful as possible , which be why we be look at what young people need most . in addition to Government funding , £ 100 million from the dormant asset scheme be be invest in youth outcome between 2024 and 2028 . all the measure that I have outline , from strengthen the workforce to create safe space and develop a long - term national youth strategy , reflect this Government ' s commitment to young people . the work of my Department will allow the development of the young future hub , the youth guarantee and the curriculum review , to name just a few initiative . we be commit to work across Government for our young people . we owe it to this generation to keep strive for a system that be there when they need it , not just now but in the future . I thank the Minister for her response . it be amazing to hear about the extra funding go in , and the Government ' s approach to ensure a long - term sustainable future for our youth service . it be a different approach from that take by the previous Government , who rip apart that network . give the theme of today ' s debate , and the piecemeal , patchwork approach take by the previous Government , it be great for we all that this government be take such a different approach . I pay tribute to member from across the House — although obviously not those on the conservative Benches , because they could not be bother to turn up . I will not name everybody individually , because I think we have over 26 contribution , but I would like to highlight some of the key theme that come up , include the need for a long - term strategy , which the Minister speak about , and the need for statutory back - up . none of we want a repeat of previous year and the mistake of the previous Government , who take away support and the cover that youth service provide . we need to give they statutory back - up . the Minister be put extra investment into this space ; I urge she to really back up these service with the statutory protection that they deserve . I will end with an african proverb : " if a child be not embrace by the village , it will burn it down to feel its warmth . " if we do not learn the lesson of the past , we will continue to see the mental health of our young people decline , and their experience will continue to be the unhappy in Europe . no one who attend today ' s debate want that to continue , so let we learn the lesson and have long - term sustainable funding for our youth service . very touching . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the long - term funding of youth service . Coroner Services : West Midlands Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I be extremely grateful for the opportunity to address an issue that continue to cause deep pain and disruption to our community across Birmingham and the west midland , and to speak about an under - appreciated service that we will all turn to at some point in our life . the amount of time that pass between death and burial be not a matter of mere procedure or bureaucracy ; it be , first and foremost , a matter of dignity , faith , and human decency , so we must afford our coroner service the urgent and serious attention that they deserve . for many , the news of a love one pass bring not only sorrow , but an immediate sense of duty . in both the muslim and jewish tradition , burial can not be postpone without consequence . it be a religious imperative to bury the deceased as soon as possible , ideally within 24 hour . that be a fundamental and non - negotiable feature of those faith . when that process be delay — not for hour , but for day and sometimes week — it cause a deep wound . these family be not just deal with a loss , but be keep in suspense , both spiritually and emotionally , unable to complete the final rite that bring the peace , closure and healing that we all deserve when we lose a love one . what be bad be that these delay have become commonplace . they be no long the exception ; increasingly , they be the norm . every week , I hear from grieve family in my constituency — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) every week , I hear from grieve family who be tired , frustrated and often feel helpless . their story be heartbreaking . many do not know where to turn . they call their councillor and their mp , and they be right to do so . when the system fail they , it be our job to listen , to act and to advocate . rise — on coroner service in the west midland , I call Jim Shannon . I speak to the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) before the debate , Madam Deputy Speaker ; he and I be in a debate in Westminster Hall just this afternoon . Coroner service , whether it be in the west midland or anywhere else in the United Kingdom , be an issue . I tell the hon . Gentleman what my intervention be go to be , by the way , and he okay it ; I be happy to do so . the hon . Gentleman may be aware that there be only three full - time coroner in Northern Ireland . with the historic legacy of the trouble take up time and the coroner step outside his remit , do the hon . Gentleman not agree that , in both his constituency and mine , the need for the coroner must be focus on and that they should be available to those who need they most ? furthermore , do he agree that there be a need to increase the number of coroner in order to allow family to have the fact of the case when they need they , to allow the healing to begin ? I really appreciate the intervention from the hon . Gentleman , who make a poignant point . the service do require modernisation . in Birmingham and Solihull we have one senior coroner , two area coroner and seven assistant coroner to look after a population of approximately 1 . 5 million , accord to the 2021 census . in comparison , in the hon . Gentleman ' s patch , there be four coroner for 1 . 9 million people , which be simply not enough . as I say , these family be not just deal with the loss of a family member , but be keep in suspense , both spiritually and emotionally . in May 2024 , more than 6 , 000 inquest in this country have be delay by more than a year . as the hon . Gentleman appreciate , each of those inquest represent a grieve family unable to find closure , plan funeral or settle estate . do he agree that this Government should now act to clear the backlog and to provide extra funding ? this situation be nothing short of a crisis . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention ; I be go to quote those figure in my speech . he be absolutely right that those 6 , 000 delay have a direct impact on not just family who want closure , but current case that need to be work on . the time spend by the coroner on inquest will naturally impact the basic sign - off of document in other case , and where the coroner be not available to sign off , family will have to wait to effect burial . we need modernisation , of course , and I seek support from the Minister on how we can modernise the service . as I say , I hear of grieve family every week . they be tired , frustrated and often feel helpless , and turn to elect representative for intervention . I want to share a story from my constituency that highlight the human impact of these delay . a prominent brain surgeon have lose his father . the funeral , which should have take place within a day , be delay for over a week due to coroner backlog . that surgeon , bind by faith and family duty , remain in mourning and could not return to work until the burial have take place . his father ' s death be more than a personal loss ; it have a professional consequence , too . appointment be cancel and surgery be delay . there be countless example of where family member , and extend family member , have to remain in mourning , which mean that they be not able to do the work that they would ordinarily do . I thank my hon . friend for give way and for his very powerful speech . do he agree that any death be very stressful and distressing , but when it be a child , everything become amplified ? a child ' s post - mortem require a specialist paediatric medical examiner , and a shortage of they in the east midland , rather than in the west midland , mean that body be sometimes take to other city , and this be far stress and distressful for the family . More paediatric medical examiner be require . I have not actually think about the loss of a child , but , of course , that must be extremely distressing , especially if the family have to wait for a child ' s body to be send to another part of the country for examination to take place . in raise this matter in the Chamber today , I hope the Minister will take on board the point that I have make and understand why we believe that there be a desperate need for modernisation , which deal with the issue feel by community up and down this country . let I return to my personal experience . patient be leave wait because the brain surgeon be unable to attend to they while he be still in mourning . this be what happen when we allow systemic inefficiency to go unaddressed . they begin to erode the very service on which we all rely and impose hidden cost that can not be measure , but be there none the less . this bring we to the heart of the issue : what be cause these delay . there be several factor at play here . among they be the state of our coroner service . quite frankly , it be under - resource , understaffed and overstretch . the people work in this sector be not to blame . they be do incredible work under immense pressure , but the system be in desperate need of transformation . let we look at the fact across England and Wales . my hon . friend be be very generous with his time . I would like to echo that fact : Leicester ' s coroner service be do an excellent job . one reason be that the community and any burial committee , especially in the Muslim Burial Council of Leicester , have create a real relationship , thereby override any misunderstanding and improve proficiency . of course , it be important that all community form a bond with their local coroner , but , ultimately , if the coroner and their staff be limit in number , there be always go to be a backlog and delay in process the very important work of identify the cause of death and then release the deceased . let we look at the fact . across England and Wales , more than 6 , 000 coroner case be pende for more than a year — four time high than in 2017 . Birmingham and the west midland be among the worst affected . our population be grow . our community be increasingly diverse , with more resident who require specific religious consideration , yet the infrastructure have not keep pace . the Government ' s funding commitment have not match rise everyday demand . we do not have enough pathologist and we do not have enough administrative support . we do not have the essential tool that could make a significant difference — tool such as MRI and CT scan machine , which be use for the sole purpose of conduct non - invasive autopsy . however , we do have access to these facility , but they be not dedicate to the coroner . it be by take advantage of technological innovation such as those that we can make life easy for family whose faith prohibit invasive post - mortem procedure . with the right equipment , we can respect those belief and still get the datum require by law . another major issue be the absence of weekend service . in most part of the country , coroner office operate Monday to Friday , but people do not stop die on Fridays . death occur every day . when service close for the weekend , a death that occur on Friday night may not be process until Monday or even Tuesday . for family who be religiously obligate to bury their love one immediately , the delay be deeply distress . introduce weekend operation for coroner and burial service be not a luxury but a necessity . in Birmingham we do have a coroner who would give up his time on weekend , but that have stop . to speak plainly about another area of concern , mp be increasingly be tell not to contact a coroner ' s office on behalf of constituent . we be tell that it constitute interference . in fact , that be set out in the code of conduct for parliamentarian . I reject that completely . mp be not ask coroner to change their finding or try to influence investigation . we be not question their professionalism or their judgment . we be simply ask for speed , efficiency and compassion . to suggest that this be interference misunderstand both the role of an MP and the seriousness of the issue . we must be allow to advocate for our constituent . I commend the hon . gentleman for his wise word . we be all of different faith , whether Christian or other faith , and some people have no faith . a person ' s religion must be paramount when it come to the coroner ' s work , and the coroner must ensure that a burial can take place within the period of time that the person ' s faith indicate . I would have think that be something that can not be ignore under human right and equality . perhaps there be another way of look at that . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . there be significant case law that identify this specific need , and coroner do abide by that and try their good to assist when expediency be require because of religion . unfortunately , it come back to the bottleneck , where coroner want to do the good they can within the structure in which they be work , but they be limit by resource . that come down to issue such as staffing . when family have nowhere to turn , it should not be inappropriate for parliamentarian to contact the coroner to assist the suffering or grieve family . will the Minister please review the part of the code of conduct for parliamentarian that relate to communicate with a coroner ? one way that we in Dewsbury and Batley try to overcome this restriction — a rule I also could not understand — be by work with our not - for - profit and charitable funeral service , especially in religious community . organisation such as Fisabilillah and Sadaqah Jariyah build a relationship with the coroner to try to facilitate communication with family who reach out to mps . do the hon . Member agree that these organisation in community should be congratulate and thank for their service , and that the communication channel he speak of should be formalise and make permissible ? I agree wholeheartedly with the hon . member . up and down the country many organisation such as undertaker provide that support mechanism . unfortunately , from my personal experience — this be certainly the case in Birmingham , and I be confident it be in the west midland region too — a family ' s first port of call be their local councillor or parliamentarian , and there be an expectation from the community or the family that they will make representation to the coroner . if elect representative be unable to have that communication because of the code of conduct , our very function be undermine . it be important that organisation maintain the relationship that they have with coroner , but it be also important to give parliamentarian the ability to communicate with the coroner directly . to ensure that the service meet the demand of their community , they need additional funding . Coroner service require transformation , but resource for that transformation be important . that mean hire more pathologist . I be grateful to the hon . member for allow I to intervene again . apart from he , I think I be the only Member from the west midland in the Chamber ; my constituency be Wolverhampton West . do he agree that there appear to be a postcode lottery , as the time it take to process an inquest range from 10 week to 76 week depend on where a person live ? if we do have a postcode lottery , do he agree that we must address that by have a national performance framework for our coroner service and target funding for underperform area ? of course , if there be a disparity in the level of service receive , there ought to be some mechanism for identify where that be occur and an understanding as to why . if it be because of resource and manpower , that must be address . I fully agree with the hon . member ' s analysis . it be a shame that we do not have other parliamentarian from the west midland in the Chamber . I be confident that some will have receive an enormous amount of contact and huge number of call throughout their tenure , as I do . one of the issue be resource , include those MRI and CT scan facility available for post - mortem and dedicate to that purpose . although our coroner in Birmingham and Solihull have access to those device , unfortunately they be not dedicate to that task , and a deceased may lie in the coroner ' s mortuary until a facility become available , which can take day , and sometimes even long . a transformation also mean ensure that service operate not just five but seven day a week , because death , grief and religious obligation do not adhere to the normal working week . we also need to develop a clear protocol across all local authority that recognise the need for expedite burial in line with religious belief . there must be training , awareness and sensitivity in coroner service . as I recently have the experience of bereavement in the family , may I ask the hon . member to join I in recognise the exceptional service of the Blackburn coroner service and its vital contribution to our community ? I can say confidently that the coroner I have work with work tirelessly , and often outside their work hour , to deliver the good possible service , but the limitation on they be of concern . although coroner be do their level well , they be limited — certainly in Birmingham — in what they can do if they do not have the resource . I hope that the Minister can take that issue away for review and support . I agree with my hon . friend about the good work that coroner do up and down the country . there must be training , awareness and sensitivity within coroner service , registrar and local council . for example , in Birmingham we have a relationship whereby there be a rapid release system as hospital understand the sensitivity and do their utmost to ensure that a body be release . unfortunately , to give another example , one family be leave grieve because a deceased ' s body could not be give to the undertaker at Queen Elizabeth hospital because there be no individual who could do the handover . the family have to wait over the weekend just to get the deceased ' s body . we need to look at how we can work across all sector to ensure that they be properly resource and we avoid any unnecessary delay . the lack of resource and coroner across the country have a knock - on effect on the NHS . there be an additional administrative and logistical burden from hold body and deal with family who be get in contact every hour , many time . that take staff away from frontline service . do the hon . Member agree that have the right level of coroner service would reduce the burden of knock - on cost on the NHS ? I agree , but I be conscious of the time , so I will swiftly wrap up my speech . this be not a partisan issue . it be not even a religious issue . this be a human issue . it affect people of faith and of no faith . no one deserve to wait week or long to say goodbye to those they love . let we act not just with policy , but with purpose . let we fund , reform and rebuild a system that respect every community , honour every tradition and put compassion first once more . with my own father ' s islamic funeral take place very recently in Birmingham , I too be very interested in the Minister ' s response . my condolence to you on your loss , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) on secure this important debate . I thank he for his emotive speech , and all hon . member who contribute , represent the view of bereaved family , sometimes include their own . it be appreciate and they have do so dutifully . the House will be aware that although the Ministry of Justice be responsible for coronial law and policy in England and Wales , it do not have operational oversight of the coronial system . Coroner service be not centralise as part of his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service , and be instead administer and fund through the relevant local authority for each coroner area . the chief coroner provide judicial leadership for coroner . I take this opportunity , as other member have , to express my thank to all coroner , their officer and their staff , as well as the chief coroner and her team for their tireless and expert commitment to their work . we be all extremely grateful to they for the vital service they provide to the bereaved and to the justice system . coroner be independent judicial office holder . they be specialist death investigation judge and part of the wide death investigation , certification and registration system . their statutory duty be to investigate any death of which they become aware if they suspect that it be violent or unnatural in its cause , its cause be unknown , or it occur in custody or other state detention . they also have an ancillary duty to ensure that , in appropriate case , action to prevent future death be identify via prevention of future death report . the need of the bereaved , particularly where there be faith concern in respect of a death , should remain central to the coroner process . both the Lord Chancellor , as a west midland MP , and I be very aware of local concern about coroner provision for community that require swift burial or cremation . clearly , decision about the release of the body , include whether to hold a post - mortem examination , be independent judicial decision for the coroner . however , I know that in many jurisdiction , include in the west midland , family have experience real delay . sometimes , that be because the coroner need to gather further evidence to support the investigation . I fully understand that , regardless of the reason , delay can cause real distress for bereaved family , particularly when faith requirement be dependent on the timely release of a love one ' s body . we be work hard to cut delay wherever possible and to ensure that family be properly communicate with and support throughout the process , particularly so that we can ensure that any religious ceremony or faith requirement can be meet , as they should . there be already a range of measure in place to help guide coroner as to good practice in term of early decision make once a death have be report , in order to ensure that family can be give certainty as soon as possible . the chief coroner have issue detailed practical guidance for coroner in deal with request for urgent consideration of a death and early release of a deceased body , include on religious ground . the guidance set out that legal framework and state : " Coroners should pay appropriate respect to those wish , within the framework of their legal duty and in the context of other responsibility . " in addition , the chief coroner have issue guidance on the use of post - mortem imaging , include CT scanning , and on pathology more generally , which emphasise that the family should be keep fully inform throughout . I regularly meet the chief coroner to ensure that we have a share understanding of the issue with the coroner system , include this one . I be also happy to engage with representative of faith community to understand their concern and to meet hon . member to discuss the matter far . as the House will know , the Justice Committee undertake an inquiry into the coroner service in 2021 , with a follow - up in 2023 - 24 . the Government respond to the Committee ' s letter of May 2024 , summarise their finding in December 2024 . that letter have be publish by the Committee . it be right that our focus should be on ensure that the bereaved be at the heart of the process . I hope the House will find it helpful if I set out a number of step that the Government be take to address the issue raise by the Justice Committee , other stakeholder and hon . member . after just a few month in office , in September 2024 this Government implement the statutory medical examiner system in England and Wales . it represent the most fundamental change to the end - to - end process of death certification and registration in recent time . the new system mean that every death be subject either to the scrutiny of a medical examiner or to a coroner ' s investigation , thereby fulfil the long - stand ambition of successive government to introduce a robust system whereby all death , without exception , be subject to an independent review . medical examiner and coroner have distinct role . the new arrangement will ensure that case be manage in the right part of the system and that only those death that require a judicial investigation be refer to the coroner . that will enable well focus of coronial resource , which in turn be expect to support the reduction of inqu backlog and delay . I hope we be already see the evidence of that . just last week , the Ministry of Justice ' s coroner statistic be publish : 174 , 900 death be report to coroner in 2024 — the low level since 1995 and down 10 % compare to 2023 . that be because , follow the creation of the new system , only those who genuinely need to go to the coroner will do so . in addition , 81 , 200 post - mortem examination be order by coroner in 2024 — a 6 % fall compare to 2023 . to reduce the burden and time it take for post - mortem , do the Minister agree that we should use technology , and MRI and CT scan , wherever possible , which will also speed up the release of the body ? I appreciate the hon . member ' s contribution . as I have say , that guidance be there and that equipment be available to coroner if they deem it necessary . of course , we want to see anything that will help speed up the process for family . although we want to wait a full year for the proper datum next May , the early evidence be encouraging that the new arrangement be work as intend . reduce the number of unnecessary case be refer to coroner mean that coronial resource can be focus on the most complex death , while reduce the impact and burden on family . it also mean that the number of post - mortem examination that subsequently reveal a natural cause of death may also be reduce , since those case may be identify by well surveillance and scrutiny much early in the process . more widely , we recognise the concern express by the Justice Committee and hon . member present about the shortage of pathologist , particularly child pathologist , available to undertake coronial post - mortem examination . that be a long - stand and complex problem , and its resolution require a cross - Government approach . I be happy to reassure hon . member that such an approach be take place . I be meet my counterpart in the Department of Health and Social Care to look at how we can fix the issue in the long term . coroner rely on the pool of pathologist work in the wide medical system , include the NHS , to perform those examination . we be carefully consider the view of the Justice Committee in its report , as well as the datum we have gather from our call for evidence on coronial pathology , which be issue in late 2023 , with a view to publish a new strategy for improve coronial pathology in due course . we recognise the impact that inquest hearing be have and be do all we can to process that backlog as quickly as possible . we will work with the chief coroner to continue to build on the foundation that have be put in place to reduce the time . I know that coroner in the west midland be well below the national average , as we have already hear . the Black Country coroner area complete inquest in an average of 11 week , and Birmingham and Solihull , and Coventry , complete inquest in an average time of 17 and 18 week respectively . bereaved family should not be leave wait long than be necessary for inquest to be complete . we be work on a number of area , include on a guide to make coroner service more accessible . we be consider all we can do and all the recommendation , and I be happy to come back to the House in due course . we will work with the chief coroner on the content of all material , and to reinforce the use and dissemination of these guidance document . the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr speak about mp make representation , mp be elect to this House to represent their constituent , and they should be able to do so . I will raise his point with the chief coroner when I meet she soon . I recognise the concern express today , as well as the wide concern express by the Justice Committee and other stakeholder , about the importance of an effective coroner service . we will continue to do all we can to ensure that the system continue to put its focus on find answer on behalf of the deceased , that bereaved family be always at the heart of the process , that lesson be learn from any death and that this learning be disseminate as quickly and as widely as possible to protect the public . question put and agree to . House adjourn .