I be a DSIT Minister today , but the debate feel remarkably like the creative industry debate a couple of week ago , when I be respond as the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism . I will get on to some of the point about AI and copyright later , so if anybody want to intervene on I they can wait for that bit . I will start with some of the point hon . member have make . the measure on the NHS and datum be among the most positive in the Bill , and be welcome by everybody today . it be not in the previous version of the Bill ; it be one of our addition . the other day , a colleague be tell I about her local hospital , and I be strike by the fact that it employ 42 people simply to carry around physical medical record . we have put our back into change that . that be not a good way to preserve record , or to ensure they be secure and not get lose , let alone anything else . my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) be absolutely right when he talk about patient passport . we need to turn the issue on its head , so that people have access to their datum and can participate in and make well decision about their own healthcare . as I say to my hon . Friend yesterday , that be similar to the change that happen a few year ago . after an appointment , consultant use to write to GP about the patient in doctor gobbledegook , but now many of they write to the patient in plain English , copy in the GP . that be the kind of change we need to see . I be very hopeful about the change that will be introduce by the Bill . as my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) say , they will make dramatic difference . we need to ensure the interoperability of all the IT system use across the whole of the NHS . I would like to extend that beyond England and Wales ; I would not mind if we could manage to do the same for Scotland and Northern Ireland , but I fear that even my friend the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , who like I sometimes , would baulk a little at a United Kingdom - wide approach to such matter . I be also excited about the element of the Bill on smart datum , which have barely have a look - in in today ' s debate but which could be transformative in many sector . many of we will know that when we use our banking app , we be enable to go not just to our bank but to our insurance , include our car insurance , and all those thing can be relate to one another in a secure way . that be because of the smart datum system that have be in existence for the last few year . we need to roll that out in many other sector , and that be precisely what the Bill allow . for instance , in the gig economy , it will mean that Uber driver and those deliver for Deliveroo will have a well understanding of whether they be actually earn a living from each delivery . thirdly , nobody have refer to the reform of the Information Commissioner ' s Office . it be an important part of the Bill . there have be brief mention of the register of birth and death , which basically bring the modern world to the register office . as a former vicar , I suppose I be more interested in that than most , as I have hatch and dispatch quite a few in my time . that be the original point that I be try to make , and I obviously do not make it as well as the hon . Member do , so I congratulate he on that . the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) be a bit critical of article 70 , but I think that he be be a bit unfair . the requirement in subsection 8 and 9 , and then later in 11 and 12 of the article be very clear about the circumstance — and they be the only circumstance — in which the Secretary of State can bring forward change of the kind to which he refer . I hope that we will be able to please he , if not appease he , if that matter appear in Committee or on Report . I just want to finish with some comment on AI and IP , not least because there have be so much focus on this area . all of we on the Front Bench want to have a data Bill , because we think that it be really important for our economy and for so many different aspect of the way that we deliver Government service . we also want a debate about AI and copyright , which be why we launch the consultation , but it feel odd to be do a bit of that in this Bill . let I turn now to what the shadow Secretary of State say early . I ask ChatGPT what the view of the shadow Secretary of State be on AI and copyright . it reply , " regard his view on copyright , there be no publicly available information indicate that he have express specific opinion on this matter . " well , yes , we hear that this afternoon , didn ' t we ? I hope the Opposition manage to find some idea at some point . this be a very serious matter and it be one of the trickiest issue that any country have to face at this point . I think that it be tricky for our country than most other , because we be the third large AI economy in the world , and we be probably the second or , at bad , the third great IP country in the world . we have creator in every single sphere . some country specialise in one particular form of the creative industry , but we manage to do all of they . that be why I be listen very attentively to the contribution from my hon . friend the Members for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) and for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) , and the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire and many other as well . I just want to focus on the thing on which there be some agreement . I think there be agreement across the House on the idea that transparency be an important part of what we need to ensure in this legislation , and on the aim of control over intellectual property right , and on possibly end a strong version of right reservation for the creative industry . I can announce that we have set up two work group in the past week , both of which have people from the creative industry and from the AI company in they . one be specifically look at transparency and what that look like to be effective and proportionate , and it will start work on that next week . secondly , on the question of right reservation , I fully understand that people be sceptical about whether there be a simple technical mean of everybody be about to assert their right —