prayer the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Order , 28 January , and Standing Order no . 3 ) . business before Questions City of London ( Markets ) Bill Bill read a second time . oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — Business Growth Service what progress his Department have make on establish the business growth service . small business be critical to our economy and to the future of all our community . we will bring forward our small business strategy later this year to improve the environment for small business to grow . as part of that work , we be consult widely with small business and other stakeholder on the design of the business growth service , which we will launch later this year . before Christmas , I be pleased to meet some of the many microbusinesse operate in Osset and Denby Dale . they tell I that they previously feel that they have fall through the crack of Government policy and economic ambition . how will the Minister ' s business growth service assist those microbusinesse , as well as broad measure that the Government be take to help small organisation to grow ? I commend my hon . friend on her support for the microbusinesse in her constituency . we want to get behind all those who be willing to take the risk to set up their own business . they help to make our community more vibrant , they create job , and they generate the tax revenue that make our country strong . the business growth service will be design to get business quick access to the support they need from the Government , such as apply for a start - up loan , access to training and management support and help with export . I thank the Minister for his positive response to that question . in Strangford , small business be the backbone of the community , and many people in those business work from home . the business growth policy may be specific to England , but what discussion have the Minister have with the Department for Business and Trade in Northern Ireland to ensure that we benefit ? the hon . Gentleman have always be a great champion of small business in his constituency and in Northern Ireland more generally . we want the business growth service to complement the support that the Northern Ireland Executive and the Welsh and Scottish Governments already give their business , to improve the quality of advice and support available to all business in all part of the UK . Employment Costs what step he plan to take to help reduce employment cost . the Government be pursue the reform need to deliver sustain long - term growth . develop and deliver in partnership with business , we have take significant step , include launch a consultation on the modern industrial strategy , establish the national wealth fund , transform our planning rule , commit to a 10 - year infrastructure strategy and introduce the Employment Rights Bill to boost productivity . we have also add extra protection for small business by increase the employment allowance and freeze the small business rate multiplier . I think the Minister may have misunderstand my question ; I ask how he would reduce employment cost . the president of the Confederation of British Industry recently say that , because of thing like the Employment Rights Bill , employer will be lay people off and will be less likely to employ , and that be before the national insurance tax on employment impose by this Government . do the Minister accept responsibility for the increase in unemployment that we be already see ? I think it be something of a stretch to say that a Bill that be not even law yet , most of the provision of which will not come into force until next year , be drive unemployment already . I quote back to he what the head of the CBI say yesterday about our growth plan . he say : " this positive leadership and a … vision to kickstart the economy and boost productivity be welcome . " I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the week of Labour ' s late reset , how do the Minister reconcile impose an additional £ 5 billion of cost on business — on the Government ' s own figure — with grow the economy ? what be it about the breakfast with the Prime Minister that see boss lay off more worker 24 hour later ? I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his question . we believe that a 0 . 4 % increase in the overall pay bill , which be what we have estimate the Employment Rights Bill will mean for business , be actually a fantastic return for great security at work , great pay , well staff retention , increase productivity , make job more secure and family friendly , ban exploitative zero - hour contract , support woman in work in every stage of life , provide a genuine living wage , turn the page on industrial relation , and bring an end to fire and rehire . this be a pro - business , pro - growth , pro - worker agenda from the Government , and we be determined to deliver it . Fireworks if he will take step to reduce the noise level of firework on public sale . the Government understand the effect that firework can have on animal and vulnerable individual . consumer firework have a 120 db noise limit , but numerous low - noise option be available on the market at around 90 db or below . this year ' s firework public information campaign have highlight low - noise firework and the importance of considerate use . additionally , I be meet business , consumer group and charity at the conclusion of the firework season in the next come week or two to discuss their concern . antisocial firework keep our constituent awake , cause alarm for pet , and seriously affect people with post - traumatic stress disorder or special educational need . I know the Minister hear extensively from colleague , campaigner and charity on this during the Westminster Hall debate on my Bill . will he meet I to discuss the implementation of the common - sense measure present in my Fireworks Bill , include lower the noise limit on firework sell to the public , close the licensing loophole and review social medium and online sale ? it be always a pleasure to meet my hon . friend and I be happy to do so . indeed , we will see whether we can get she to come along to some of the other meeting that we be hold with interested group , some of which she have mention . may I wish a belate happy chinese new year to all those who be celebrate yesterday ? one beauty of our great country be its diversity , but with that come cause for celebration throughout the year . my own community in South West Hertfordshire celebrate Diwali , Eid , Christmas , chinese new year and other event , which often entail the use of firework . there be an expectation of firework and the noise associate with they at the main event of Christmas and new year , so pet owner inevitably take safeguard measure then , but give the likelihood of firework throughout the year , may I urge the Minister to get on to this Bill quickly , ensure that we do not stifle the celebration , but that we do protect our animal and those vulnerable child who may be affect by noise ? I thank the hon . member for his question . he be right to recognise that firework be use at a number of event throughout the year , but it would be wrong to characterise that as people have to expect that there will be noise . there be now a sufficient number of low - decibel product on the market for everyone to act more responsibly , and we will be explore that in our meeting over the come week . Industrial Strategy what progress his Department have make on develop an industrial strategy . what progress his Department have make on develop an industrial strategy . what progress his Department have make on develop an industrial strategy . what progress his Department have make on develop an industrial strategy . this Department and , indeed , Departments across Government be work extensively on develop our industrial strategy , which the conservative party oppose , but which business and industry welcome . last month , we launch the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council , comprise a very impressive group of the UK ' s top business leader , policy expert and trade union leader . my right hon . friend the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade attend the council ' s inaugural meeting on 17 December . in addition , we be currently analyse more than 3 , 000 response to the Industrial Strategy Green Paper from business , academic , think - tank and union , and their insight and feedback be incredibly valuable as we develop the strategy . I strongly welcome the inclusion of defence in the draft industrial strategy and be pleased yesterday to host a roundtable in Sedgefield with the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry . many of the innovative small and medium - sized enterprise that we talk to speak of the struggle that they have with red tape , bureaucracy and contract with Departments across Whitehall . how will Ministers grab the opportunity of the industrial strategy to remove this red tape , which too often can thwart SME growth ? I be really pleased my hon . friend hold that roundtable . it be quite a turning point to have an industrial strategy with defence as one of the sector ; build new relationship across Departments with colleague who work in defence be a really powerful and important thing to do . he speak to a wide problem face by a lot of industry when it come to deal with Government agency and Departments . we be work hard to make these thing easy , because growth be our priority and we have to break down those barrier . it be essential that the Government ' s industrial strategy create manufacture job across the country , include in my constituency . the renewableuk offshore wind industrial growth plan show the UK can be a global technology leader in advanced turbine tech , foundation , electrical system and cable . will my hon . friend commit to use our industrial strategy to ensure there be growth in these area to put british manufacturing at the heart of the clean energy transition ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , for her defence of her constituency and for her ambition , which we share . I believe the report she refer to come out before this Labour Government come to power . with our new policy and the new drive and ambition from our secretary of State for Business and Trade and for Energy Security and Net Zero , we be power forward with our renewable agenda , and we will make sure that all of our growth drive sector speak to my hon . friend ' s area and everyone ' s area of the country and drive growth across the board . manufacturer in my constituency be really excited about the upcoming industrial strategy and all the growth that will bring . however , steel and aluminium business in particular be concerned about the upcoming carbon border adjustment mechanism , the gap with the EU , and whether the whole system will be ready for implementation . if we do not get it right , the CBAM will have a big impact on our ability to trade and on growth , so can the Minister assure I she be go to be work with the Treasury to ensure we get this right and that it support manufacturer in the west midland ? I know my hon . friend will hold this Government to account on what we be do and how we be go , and she will push , and already have do , to make sure we be do everything we can for the industry in her area . the CBAM will be introduce in 2027 , and she speak to concern that I have hear in conversation around steel in particular , which be very important to this country . that be why we be develop a steel strategy , which will set a future direction of travel for steel , but we be work with the EU and with industry here to make sure the CBAM work and do what it be suppose to do . Andy Burnham ' s Atom Valley mayoral development zone be create a world - class supercluster for advanced manufacturing right across 70 million square foot in Rochdale , Oldham , Bury and Middleton . rochdale ' s Kingsway business park will be home to the SMMC — the sustainable material and manufacturing centre — a world - class cutting - edge research centre . will the Minister join I in support the smmc , and perhaps arrange a visit either by herself or the Secretary of State to see what be happen with the job of the future in Rochdale ? I thank my hon . friend for bring to the House the work that be go on for the Atom Valley development zone , which be incredibly important and exactly what we want to see . the Mayor of Greater Manchester be to be congratulate for his leadership in this space as well . I be very interested in the work my hon . friend refer to , not least because of the critical mineral strategy we be develop and the graphene work that I know will be under way in the manufacture centre hub , so I very much look forward to talk far to he about what be happen and how we can help . why be it that the Government ' s energy policy be drive uncompetitive energy cost in absolutely the wrong direction ? Sir Jim Ratcliffe have point out that the principal threat to any strategy be actually the uncompetitive cost for those enterprise that will have to populate it . this Government inherit very high energy cost from the previous Government , who have take no action to make our country more energy secure . we be power through to have clean , green , home - grow energy that will bring cost down and make sure we be secure as a country and not reliant on the whim of global leader and the price of oil and gas . we will bring those cost down and we will support our industry , which I be afraid the previous Government fail to do . over the past week , the UK Government have commit to support a runway in London , a football stadium in Manchester and a science corridor for Oxford and Cambridge , yet for the past year , Conservative and Labour government have fail to act to secure the long - term future of Grangemouth , after INEOS announce the closure of the oil refinery . despite general election promise to step in and save the plant , why be the Labour Government willing to jeopardise job at Grangemouth , the country ' s energy security , which the Minister have just speak passionately about the need to secure , and the wide industrial strategy through this inaction ? the hon . member will be pleased to hear that we have re - establish a working group with the Scottish First Minister and the Welsh and Northern irish leadership to make sure we be work collectively , because we do not want to take a party political approach to the growth of all our nation . we be collaborate well with the Scottish Government on Grangemouth , where we be work at pace and put in investment and support . we be work to transition people from North sea oil and gas into the new energy of the future . there be the passport that we publish , and we have set up great British Energy , which will be headquarter in Aberdeen . a lot of work be go on , and we need the Scottish Government to support we in that work . we will work in partnership , because that be what will create good job . the chemical industry be an important employer in my constituency , with the HEX Group and SI Group employ many people . as mention , Sir Jim Ratcliffe be already highlight the extinction of the british chemical industry . my chemical manufacturer need to ensure that they be buy energy at the same price as manufacturer in Germany , the Netherlands and France . when will they be able to do that ? the chemical industry have be suffer for many year because of the previous Government ' s economic policy , crash the economy under Liz Truss and fail to deal with energy price over multiple year . I have meet the chemical industry . it be an important part of our economy , and we need to do what we can to protect it . I be have conversation , and we be build our energy policy . we be build our industrial strategy . word salad ! word salad ? gosh . that abuse from the Opposition Front Bench have cut I to the core . the industrial strategy have set out eight sector that will turbocharge the economy . across all those sector lie our foundational sector , of which the chemical industry be one . we will support that industry in a way that his government fail to do . I call the shadow Minister . I will try to avoid a word salad . we have hear from various different industrial sector how important it be to have stable and predictable energy cost . this month have see little sun and only intermittent wind , so we have be heavily dependent on import oil and gas . be Ministers in the Department for Business and Trade challenge the Energy Secretary over his policy ? I be disappoint by the hon . Lady ' s approach to this matter , and I be disappoint by the conservative party ' s overall abandonment of previously strongly hold view about the need to balance climate change with our economy . it be a fact that we be move fast towards renewable energy . last year , 50 % of our energy come from renewable for the first time . we be grow they at pace because they be cheap . onshore wind be the cheap form of energy we have , solar be very cheap and float offshore wind bring we huge opportunity . renewable will bring our cost down and make sure we be energy secure , and they go hand in glove with growth , as the Chancellor set out in her speech yesterday . the Minister ' s Government have change policy to not issue any new licence for domestic oil and gas , so we will become more dependent on import at time when solar and wind be not work , unless we can increase nuclear generation . it be Nuclear Week in Parliament , so what pressure be she put on the Energy Secretary to make new nuclear an important part of our industrial strategy ? I sit jointly in the Department for Business and Trade and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , so the hon . Lady can be reassure that I talk to my colleague and be work with they . indeed , I be lead on hydrogen and carbon capture , which be an important part of the mix . we be clear that nuclear be an important part of our future and that the strong approach to deliver energy security and bring price down be to have all the opportunity available to we and to build at pace . that be why we be treble our solar , double our wind and support big nuclear as well as small modular reactor . she can be reassure that we be put a strategy in place , which the previous Government fail to do . steel Strategy what progress his Department have make on develop a steel strategy . I delight to tell my hon . friend that we be work hard on our steel strategy . immediately after we have finish these question , I will be go to Sheffield to talk to the industry about future demand . steel be an important industry for our future , to which we have make a £ 2 . 5 billion commitment . we will ensure that we turn around the decline we see under the previous Government and deliver a steel industry fit for the future . the steel industry be an important part of Wolverhampton North East ' s heritage and must remain a part of our future . will my hon . friend outline how the £ 2 . 5 billion UK steel strategy and the new steel council will boost competitiveness and secure job at Tata ' s Steelpark in Wednesfield , which be the UK ' s large processing and distribution centre ? I thank my hon . friend for stand up for her community and protect her industry . I would be happy to have a conversation with she about the change she think we need to make . steel output in the UK fall by 49 % in 2021 , by 30 % in 2022 and by 11 % in 2023 — what an awful thing to have happen to our industry . we need to turn that around . we do not underestimate how hard that will be , but we be put in place the money , the policy and the Government dedication to ensure that we support a thriving steel industry . support for High Street Businesses what step he be take to support high street business . what step he be take to support high street business . we be continue to work with colleague across Government to develop a programme that will revitalise the nation ' s high street and support business . we will publish a small business strategy later this year , and high street will be a key pillar of that . we have already commit to continue funding for business growth programme such as the growth hub network and announce plan for a new business growth service . yesterday , Bromsgrove receive the devastating news that it be about to lose both its Lloyds and Halifax bank branch in the town centre . those bank be a lifeline to many small business , particularly those run by independent small entrepreneur , as well as many resident who use their banking facility on probably a weekly or daily basis . do the Minister agree that banking hub can be part of an ongoing solution to retain banking service in our town ? will he support my campaign for a banking hub in Bromsgrove ? will he meet I to make that a reality ? I recognise that there will be a lot of concern in the hon . member ' s constituency follow that news yesterday . I agree that banking hub can make a significant difference , which be why we have be quick to roll out more than 100 of they . plan for another 76 have already be develop and we be commit to roll out 350 in total . in the spirit of one Thomas try to help another Thomas , I be happy to meet he . our small business be the lifeblood of our high street and often give young student their first opportunity for a job on a Saturday or in the holiday . however , one of my local small business owner say that she can no long afford such role because of the increase in employer national insurance contribution and change to business rate , among other thing . what will the Government do to support our young people into job when small business be leave in that awful position ? the hon . Lady might want to check again with the business she refer to , because , in the most recent Budget , the employment allowance be raise to some £ 10 , 500 , which will help every small employer ' s national insurance bill every year , and should ensure that more than 1 million firm benefit . that be a very practical measure ; more broadly , on the point about national insurance contribution , she will know that Labour inherit a very difficult financial situation because of mistake make by the Conservatives , and difficult decision have have to be take . small local business in Grangemouth such as pub , restaurant , cafe , hairdresser and garage all rely on the custom that they receive from the worker of the Grangemouth refinery , but the Government have be very passive in allow the refinery to close , thus impoverish the local community . what message do the Government have , first for the refinery worker who face redundancy , and secondly for the small local business that rely on their custom ? in her speech yesterday , my right hon . friend the Chancellor set out a series of measure that the Government want to take to boost growth across the country and benefit every part of the UK , from invest in modern road and rail system to expand airport capacity , rebalance the planning system and drive investment in cheap renewable energy , and by create a national wealth fund that can back the new technology of the future . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the specific concern he have mention , if he think that would be useful . Falkirk High Street be the beat heart of our district , with recent addition include Barracuda chippy , El Toro Gaucho steakhouse , Greek Theory restaurant and Rock Bottom beer hall . many Falkirk town centre business still raise with I the hardship they have face because of cost rise and utility , rent and parking increase over a number of year , as well as rental value threshold change by the Scottish Government , which have contribute to decrease footfall and fail business over a number of year . while I welcome the Government ' s commitment to shift the burden away from the high street , will the Minister outline what further step he be take to support my high street , and what engagement he have have with the Scottish Government to support shift the rate burden away from Falkirk High Street taxpayer ? I refer to the establishment of the business growth service in answer to an early question . we be work with the Scottish Government to begin to think through how that service can support business in Scotland and complement the support already provide by the Scottish Government . we be clear on the need to reform business rate to support retail , hospitality and leisure business on the high street . I be very happy to meet my hon . friend if he think there be further initiative we can take to help small business in Falkirk . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . r Young Art Gallery be the last art gallery in Wokingham town centre and a proud feature of our high street . however , political inactivity on business rate reform mean that it be on the precipice of closing . I be shocked to learn that it be the impending cut to business rate relief , with no measure in the short term to provide financial support , that have lead the owner to fear for the survival of his business . high street across the country continue to struggle . what be the Minister do to ensure that small , independent business such as R Young Art Gallery be support ? one reason why the Conservatives lose the confidence of the british business community be that despite repeat promise to reform business rate , they take no step to do so . we announce plan in the Budget , back in October , to reform business rate and introduce permanently low rate for retail , hospitality and leisure business . the Conservatives be go to end business rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure ; we have choose to extend it . we also announce in the Budget that we be look at what further step we could take on business rate reform . International Investment what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the UK in attract international investment . what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the UK in attract international investment . through increase inward investment , we can innovate , create job and deliver on our growth mission to become the fast - grow nation in the G7 . we have waste no time : on top of the £ 63 billion raise at our international investment summit , our new national wealth fund have already leverage £ 1 . 6 billion of private sector investment , and we have outline ambitious plan for plan reform alongside a modern industrial strategy to secure record level of investment . I be honour to have be appoint as the UK trade envoy to Pakistan . give the grow financial pressure on UK university , with several lead institution announce job cut amid the deepening funding crisis , what step be the Department take to foster strong educational partnership with Pakistan to help alleviate financial pressure in the sector in the UK , while support Pakistan ' s educational goal ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his appointment as the trade envoy to Pakistan . I can think of no one well , and I know he will make a big difference in that role . the Government take the decision to reappoint Professor Sir Steve Smith as our international education champion to ensure that the UK - Pakistan education partnership ' s work continue as part of the international education strategy , which be now jointly lead by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the Department for Education and the Department for Business and Trade . lead by Sir Steve , the UK have work closely with the Pakistan Higher Education Commission on revise Pakistan ' s new transnational education policy . that work will continue , and I be sure my hon . friend will bring great help to it . the south - west be home to an incredibly important economy base on defence , food security , space , maritime , and , in Exeter , life science and climate tech and research . we be also home to huge green energy potential , utilise float offshore wind . however , we currently need investment in our port facility so that the new green job will be base in the south - west , not in France or elsewhere . will the Minister meet I , along with colleague and the sector , to discuss to the future of green energy generation in the south - west ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I see the talent and potential for myself when I visit exeter in September for Great South West ' s annual conference . I be visit the region again in a few week , because there be huge potential , huge excitement and huge opportunity to grow . as he know , there be £ 1 . 8 billion from the national wealth fund to invest in our port . I be very happy to meet he and other to see what potential we can discuss . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I declare an interest : a family member have share in a medical company . in the United States , President Trump create chaos by freeze funding for the National Institutes of Health , and his nominee for US Health Secretary be an anti - vaccine conspiracy theorist . the United Kingdom have the perfect opportunity to seize this moment and make ourselves a beacon for global research investment . already , Wokingham have many pharmaceutical business , such as Becton Dickinson and Hollister . what step be the Minister take to ensure we attract global life science sector to the UK ? I be in Davos last week meet representative from the life science industry and talk about the huge potential for growth that we have in the UK . one of the eight sector we have identify as part of the industrial strategy , be life science , where we have huge talent and huge skill . we need to build on that and be really ambitious in what we can deliver . through the industrial strategy and the work with the brilliant industry we have in this country , we can do just that . business Confidence what step he be take to help increase business confidence . as the Chancellor of the Exchequer say only yesterday , we be drive forward planning reform , boost capital investment by over £ 100 billion over the next five year , and create the national wealth fund . we be launch the business growth service and will soon publish our modern industrial strategy , which will be unreservedly pro - business . business leader , not surprisingly , have back those measure . but the Minister will be aware that in the last few week the CBI , the Institute of Directors and the London chamber of commerce have all say that business confidence be plummet . give the tsunami of national insurance contribution increase , business rate increase and employment cost rise , be it not hardly surprising that confidence be be destroy ? be the Government , rather than promote growth , not actually destroy it ? I think the right hon . Gentleman need to check his source for comment from business leader . only yesterday the British Chambers of Commerce , the CBI and the Federation of Small Businesses be make very positive comment about our plan for growth , and last week , interestingly , PwC publish its annual survey of global ceo to reveal that Britain be the second most attractive country in the world in which to invest . that be something that I do not think the party opposite ever achieve . business confidence increase when business know that they have the skilled workforce they need in order to grow . we have just have Nuclear Week in Parliament , and it be a pleasure to host Rolls - Royce and its apprentice . its nuclear skill academy be provide a pipeline of talent , and the same be need across other industry — from technical skill to creative skill , and from multinational to small business . what cross - departmental discussion have Ministers have about help business of all size to provide skill opportunity for our future workforce ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her support for Rolls - Royce , which be one of our great british company lead the way in many export market across the world . only yesterday I be discuss with the Minister for Skills our plan to reform the growth and skill levy to make it easy for business such as Rolls - Royce to recruit apprentice and find the talent that they need to continue to be successful . I call the shadow Minister . I begin by draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . when consumer confidence be low , business confidence be low , and nowhere be that more visible than in our automotive sector , with UK car production slump to its low level since 1954 . autocar magazine warn today that the zero emission vehicle mandate " be currently the industry ' s big headache , as … consumer demand be not there to meet the stringent regulation which be increase each year . " when policy fail , it be sensible to admit it and change course . will the Minister accept that the ZEV mandate fly in the face of what consumer actually want , and that a radically different path be require to boost business confidence in our automotive sector ? no , I do not accept that , and I would gently remind the hon . Gentleman that the policy to which he have refer be introduce by his party . I recognise that there be many aspect of the conservative party ' s record about which he and his colleague be probably embarrassed . the Liz Truss Budget — which the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , help to write — do huge damage to our country and to consumer confidence . the measure that the Chancellor announce yesterday , for example , will drive growth forward , and that be one of the reason why business back they so strongly yesterday . it normally take long than six month for a Government to drift that far from reality . the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders have predict that just 775 , 000 car will roll off production line in 2025 , compare to 1 . 3 million in 2019 . today ' s edition of the Telegraph report : " the slump have be accelerate by a slowdown in demand across Europe , particularly by driver shun new electric vehicle " . why do the Minister persist in a policy to undermine our automotive business by force they to make a product that people just do not want to buy ? be it not time to get the state out of the way , let our innovator innovate , and boost automotive business ' confidence by let they deliver to actual consumer demand ? the hon . Gentleman seem to have forget the extra investment that Nissan have announce , and the extra investment that have be announce by a number of other car manufacturer . he and his colleague be very clear in oppose the measure that we take in the Budget , include measure that back investment in the automotive sector , and they set out no plan to pay for that investment . I gently encourage he to reflect a little far on the mistake that his party make in government , which have cause some of the problem that we be have to sort out now . Post Office closure : impact on Communities what assessment he have make of the potential impact of Post Office closure on local community . the Post Office have the freedom to operate the branch network within the parameter set by the Government . we protect the network by set minimum access criterion so that , in urban and rural area , everyone have easy access to their near post office . those criterion ensure that however the network change , service remain within local reach of all citizen . the community of Plymstock in my constituency see its main post office close in September 2021 , when morrison close more than 80 of its newsagent across the country ; the post office be essentially collateral damage . despite the good effort of the community , my predecessor and councillor — include I , at the time — since the Post Office have downgrade the franchise on offer from main branch to post office local , it have be impossible to secure an operator due to the financial unviability of the model . yesterday , the final local branch announce that it will close later in the year . what be the Minister do to ensure that sustainable joint post office and banking service replace closing branch in constituency like mine ? we have support the Post Office in take measure to increase sub - postmaster pay , to make it a more attractive profession to come into , in order to deal with precisely the issue that the hon . member set out . she will understand that I do not have specific knowledge of the issue around the post office in her constituency , but I be always happy to challenge the Post Office on constituency issue , so if she would like to write or speak to I about this afterwards , I would be happy to look at the issue in more detail . Free Trade Agreement : India what step he be take to negotiate a free trade agreement with India . as the Chancellor announce yesterday , the Secretary of State will travel to Delhi in February to relaunch trade talk with India . work be under way across Government to prepare for those negotiation as we seek a deal that drive economic growth . an agreement with India , project to be the fourth - large global importer by 2035 , could provide further opportunity for business across the UK and further unlock growth . I thank my constituency neighbour for that update . the previous Government have more than 15 round of trade talk with India before the general election , in both India and the UK . will the Government ensure that we in the UK gain access to the service market in India , which have previously be deny to UK firm ? that be the key issue in our negotiation . if I remember rightly , the hon . Member and I be probably the two most enthusiastic member of this House for a trade deal with India — I slightly more than he , I think . we be determined to do everything we can to secure a trade deal with India . he will forgive I , I be sure , if I do not give a running commentary on our priority for those trade talk with India , but they represent a significant prize for the UK if we can reach an agreement . the Secretary of State and the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security be determined to work extremely hard and do everything they can to reach an agreement . although it be appreciate that a new trade deal with India could support job and prosperity in the UK and thus drive growth , will the Minister ensure that the talk include discussion of an agreement to the immediate release of my constituent Jagtar Singh Johal from arbitrary detention in India before any trade deal be conclude ? I recognise that this be a significant issue for my hon . friend . we remain committed to encourage the Government of India to make fast progress on resolve this case . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister raise this case with Prime Minister Modi on 18 November , and we have make clear the need for fast progress towards a resolution . encourage Entrepreneurship what step his Department be take to encourage entrepreneurship . the Government continue to support entrepreneur through , for example , start - up loan via the British Business Bank . we will publish our small business strategy later this year , which will signal a clear , overarch ambition to promote entrepreneurship , and will articulate a new vision for business support , build around the new business growth service that I have allude to . economy grow and job be create when individual be able to take risk and invest in their idea , so what have the Government do specifically since the general election to help more people in my constituency of Broxbourne become entrepreneur ? one thing we need to continue to do be make it easy for entrepreneur in the hon . member ' s constituency and across the UK to access the finance that they need to set up their business . we have give an extra £ 250 million to the British Business Bank , which will help to ensure that more people have access to finance across the country , include in his constituency . we will publish our small business strategy later this year , in which he will see further measure to support entrepreneur in Broxbourne and across the UK . what specific support be be provide for woman entrepreneur ? they be the drive force behind small business in my Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes constituency , and deserve all the support that they can get . I strongly support my hon . friend ' s substantive point . we be back the Invest in Women taskforce , which be set up to increase the number of female - power business . we be look at how to increase significantly the proportion of investment go to all - female founding team ; it have be stick at just 2 % of equity investment in the last decade . that be one example of the thing we need to change to help woman - lead business realise their full potential . north - east : support for business what step his Department be take to support business in the north - east . the Government be invest £ 1 . 4 billion , with the North East combine authority , to deliver our share objective of economic growth and business support . that include the development of the local part of the industrial strategy , guide investment to deliver sustainable economic growth , and deliver support to grow all business . in 2023 - 24 , there be £ 420 , 000 - worth of direct support give to the North East Growth Hub , which provide business across the area with practical advice and support to grow and thrive . yesterday see full - throate Government support for project across the UK , but not so much for the north - east . the region be decimate by 14 year of Tory Government , and that can not be repeat . I accept what the Minister say about what have happen , but what will the Government do to ensure that business in my Blyth and Ashington constituency can play their part in the cutting - edge technology of the future and , crucially , see improved investment , which will create much - need job with good wage and term and condition ? I be at one with my hon . friend in want all part of the country , especially the north - west and the north - east , to have high - pay , well - skilled , good job , in tech sector in particular , but also in other area where we can see great advantage for the economy . the local skill improvement plan for the north - east will help , and the excellent facility at Blyth ' s Energy Central Learning Hub be support by over £ 6 million of Government funding . that be already develop sector skill in a real - world port setting . with the reopening of the Northumberland line , we have reconnecte town in south - east Northumberland with Tyneside , improve link and opportunity across the area . support for the Automotive Industry what step his Department be take to support the automotive industry . as we have already discuss , the automotive sector be absolutely vital to the Government ' s plan for green economic growth , and for grow the economy more widely . that be why , at the Budget , my right hon . friend the Chancellor commit to ensure over £ 2 billion of capital and research and development funding before 2030 for zero emission vehicle manufacturing and its supply chain . we be also consult the industry to make sure that the zero emission transition work for the UK ' s car industry , and work with the automotive transformation fund and the Advanced Propulsion Centre to make sure that we carry on innovate and see the growth of the automotive sector in the UK . around 3 , 000 of my constituent in North Warwickshire and Bedworth work in the automotive sector . I have meet representative of many small and medium - sized business that provide engineering and manufacturing service for the sector , as well as Jaguar Land Rover , which have a battery assembly centre in my constituency . a career in the automotive industry should be an attractive prospect to many young people in my constituency . what be the Minister do to support the sector in upskille its workforce and provide apprenticeship scheme , so that company be not leave rely on immigration to fill skill gap ? my hon . friend make a really good point . there be a lot of work under way to look at skill across the board , because thus far no Government have have a proper strategy on the skill that we need , and on how we make sure that we train our own people , so that we do not have to rely on immigration . there be example in the automotive sector of absolutely brilliant apprenticeship scheme that other industry can learn from , and we be work with Skills England . I have regular meeting with colleague in the Department for Education , the Home Office and the Department for Work and Pensions to make sure that we crack this nut and encourage people to go into good , well - pay job . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the Secretary of State and the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security be at the funeral of the late , great John Prescott . in this place , we remember he . yesterday , the Chancellor set out this Government ' s plan for growth , our vision for the country and our path to put more money in people ' s pocket , revive our high street and support thrive business that create wealth , job and new opportunity . I be in Davos last week with the Chancellor and the Business Secretary , and there be enthusiasm about invest in a country that believe in open and free trade , that be reset its relationship with the EU , that be forge new free trade agreement and that be create stability here in the UK economy . it be little surprise that the UK have just be rank by PwC as the second most attractive country in the world for investment . we recognise that growth will not come without a fight , which be why we be press ahead with our industrial strategy , and channel support for eight growth - drive sector of our economy . it be why we be develop our small business strategy and work across all Government Departments to deliver the growth we need . we be support the Prime Minister ' s plan for change , put more money into people ' s pocket and realise a new decade of national renewal . yesterday , the Chancellor announce that the Government will work with Mayor Ros Jones and the Mayor of South Yorkshire to reopen Doncaster airport , so will the Minister meet Doncaster MPs to discuss how the Department can meaningfully help ? will she also acknowledge that the growth agenda will be a success only if area like Doncaster , South Yorkshire and the north be a critical part of it ? my hon . friend make a good point , and I would be happy to meet a group of mps from her area . the ambition on airport expansion be very clear in the Chancellor ' s speech yesterday . we be hungry for growth ; we set that need alongside the need to decarbonise our airspace . yesterday , I chair a meeting of industry expert look at how we can turbocharge our decarbonisation of aviation . I would be pleased to meet my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) , and I agree that we need to grow all part of the UK to make this work . I call the shadow Secretary of State . next week , member of the public and Commercial Services Union in the Department for Business and Trade be once again out on strike . do the Minister consider the union ' s demand to be reasonable ? will Ministers cross picket line to return to work ? the shadow Secretary of State show a new - find respect for the trade union , after the previous Government ' s failure to engage with they cause multiple strike and huge amount of waste money . the contract be not directly with the Department , but obviously we work with PCS and all our trade union . I regularly meet our trade union to make sure that we have good worker ’ right . rise — we need to keep question and answer short and sharp . the UK have the world ' s large deposit of polyhalite , which be use as a low - carbon fertiliser but be not on the Government ' s list of critical mineral . the extraction of polyhalite be be develop at the Woodsmith mine near Whitby , employ over 1 , 000 people . will the Minister meet I to discuss polyhalite ' s inclusion on the critical mineral list , give the potential of the deposit at Woodsmith to cut carbon emission , boost export and create skilled job ? I meet Anglo American to talk about Woodsmith just a couple of week ago when I be in Saudi Arabia , and it be an important site . I promise to go and see it , so perhaps I can go with my hon . friend . it be important that the critical mineral strategy we be develop mark a step change from the previous Government ' s strategy , which just look at a moment in time and say , " we need to do a bit more of this , that and the other . " we will have target , will be drive forward , and will look at our future demand . we be go to look at the eight sector that we want to grow , consider what critical mineral we need , and think about how to ensure that we have the supply chain to get it right . the outgoing chair of the Competition and Markets Authority warn of the authority be vulnerable to " expediency or vested interest " . do the Minister believe that appoint a former Amazon executive produce that risk ? no . Basingstoke be a digital powerhouse , once dub the " silicon suburb " . it be home to over a thousand tech company and thousand of high - quality tech job . will the Minister set out what the Government be do to support high productivity digital hub , like Basingstoke , to scale , secure investment and contribute towards the Government ' s national growth mission ? my hon . friend be right that there be a lot of expertise and a lot of tech company in his patch , and we want to see they thrive . it be for the Government to support that growth , to listen to what the barrier to growth be and to tackle they . our digital development strategy , the UK ' s digital strategy and our AI strategy , which the Prime Minister launch , be all vehicle to support these brilliant industry that we want to encourage . I be always happy to talk to my hon . friend about what more we can do to encourage more of they on to his patch . my constituent , Charlotte Durrant , run a plant shop call the Aroid Attic on Bath Road in Cheltenham . before Brexit , she be able to import her plant from the Netherlands with no bureaucracy and without any import duty . do Ministers agree that a custom union with the European Union would solve that problem ? if they do not agree with that , do they agree that more need to be do to help small and medium - sized enterprise like Charlotte ' s to tackle the competition from large supermarket , which be her main competitor ? I commend Charlotte on her business . we recognise that we need to do more to help business like her to be able to export more easily to Europe . that be why the Prime Minister have set out our determination to reset the relationship with Europe . we have make clear our plan to negotiate a phytosanitary agreement with the EU , which may or may not make an immediate difference for Charlotte , but there be other aspect of our plan to reset the relationship with Europe that I hope will help . despite repeat Government and union engagement , it seem that Luton could be set to lose one of its large private sector employer , as Stellantis close its Vauxhall plant , despite our excellent transport connection , skilled work - force and proud industrial heritage . in the light of that devastating blow , do the Minister recognise the importance of Luton airport as a tool to invest in growth and attract private sector employment to our town ? I thank my hon . friend for her work support worker at Stellantis . I meet several of her colleague and representative from Stellantis this week , who I meet regularly . we stand ready to talk to they about whatever they need to remain . the consultation finish on 24 January and we await the final decision . she make a good point about Luton airport , which I use very often because there be very good train link from Croydon to Luton . I should say that there be also good train link from Croydon to Gatwick . we know that the Secretary of State will be make a decision in due course , but the direction of travel on growth and break down barrier be clear in the Chancellor ' s speech yesterday . despite the very brief answer give by Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) to the question ask by the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) , be he aware that there be widespread concern among small and medium - sized tech firm and trade association about the replacement of the chair of the Competition and Markets Authority by a former Amazon executive ? will the Government make clear their commitment to the operational independence of the CMA and the Digital Markets Unit , and to obtain strong competition in digital market ? I can give the right hon . member that reassurance . the independence of the CMA be very important . that will remain in place and a new strategic steer will be issue shortly that will reaffirm that independence . the pandemic expose the woeful inadequacy of the previous Government ' s statutory sick pay provision , and I be pleased that this Government have commit to reform those through the Employment Rights Bill . will the Minister look at the specific wording of the Bill to ensure there be no unintended consequence of the provision on the removal of the low earning limit for statutory sick pay ? will he meet I to ensure that all worker receive proper statutory sick pay and no one be leave bad off ? the experience of the pandemic really bring home that million of people in this country do not qualify for statutory sick pay . we be determined to deal with that and I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the issue in more detail . yesterday , out of the blue , Bank of Scotland announce that it will close five branch in my constituency , leave hundred of square mile of the rural south of Scotland without a single bank branch . while we must work with Link and other to ensure access to cash in those community , do the Minister share my concern not only that this will leave empty premise prominent on the high street , but that it send a message that the bank be give up on rural area and on those who do not bank online ? I recognise that the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent will be concern about the Bank of Scotland ' s decision . he may know that more than 9 , 500 bank branch close between 2010 and 2023 . that be why the Government be determined to ensure the much more widespread roll - out of banking hub , with a commitment to roll out 350 banking hub . I strongly suggest to the right hon . Gentleman that he get in contact with Link and Cash Access UK to make the case for a banking hub in his constituency . if I can help in any way , I will be happy to consider do so . this week see DeepSeek throw the global tech market into utter meltdown , with the chinese AI app spook investor , to say the least . with huge national infra - structure project require to underpin the UK ' s place in the AI revolution , what do this turmoil mean for project such as the Blackstone AI datum centre in Cambois in Bedlingtonshire , in my constituency ? my hon . friend and I have previously talk about this great opportunity . the rapid development and breakthrough of new AI model such as DeepSeek tell we that we need to go far and fast to remove barrier to innovation and make Britain the most competitive market . we need to be develop the technology ourselves . that be why we have set out our new AI strategy and why we be scale up our capacity , create AI growth zone and put in place every vehicle we can to support the growth of technology innovation in our country , because we will need it in future . our precious high street in Eastbourne be blight by the dilapidated Debenhams building on Terminus Road , whose owner have leave it empty for year , attract antisocial behaviour and crime . will the Minister meet I or support I to meet his colleague from the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and Eastbourne borough council to discuss how we can use the new high street rental auction power to force the owner to make that unit occupy again , so that we can regenerate our high street in the sunny town in the UK ? I have already meet the hon . Gentleman to discuss some of the issue face the high street in his constituency . if he think I be the most appropriate Minister for that discussion , I be happy to make sure that it happen . he may actually want to discuss this particular issue with colleague in MHCLG , whose attention I will draw to the question , because they and their official be work much more closely on the implementation of the power he mention . avian Influenza ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs if he will make a statement on avian influenza . before I call the Minister , I give member a brief reminder that laptop use in the Chamber be not permit . avian influenza be once again pose a threat to both keep and wild bird across the country , and support birdkeeper , the public and conservation body to manage and prepare for avian influenza continue to be one of our main priority . follow the detection of highly pathogenic avian influenza in poultry and other captive bird this winter , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Animal and Plant Health Agency have stand up their well - establish outbreak structure to control and eradicate disease , restore normal trade and assist local community ' recovery . defra ' s disease control measure seek to contain the number of animal that need to be cull , either for disease control purpose or to safeguard animal welfare , and our approach aim to reduce adverse impact on the rural and wide economy , the public , rural community and the environment , include the impact on wildlife , while protect public health and minimise the overall cost of any outbreak . our approach to avian influenza consider the late scientific and ornithological evidence and veterinary advice . current policy reflect our experience of respond to past outbreak of exotic animal disease , and be in line with international standard of good practice for disease control . all birdkeeper be urge to remain vigilant and take action to protect their bird from avian influenza . scrupulous biosecurity by all birdkeeper at all time be essential to protect the health and welfare of flock . in response to the heighten risk level and escalate number of case , an avian influenza prevention zone , mandate enhance biosecurity , be in force across England , Wales and Scotland . in addition , mandatory housing for keep bird be in force across the unitary authority of the East Riding of Yorkshire , the unitary authority of York , the city of Kingston upon Hull and all district in Lincolnshire , Norfolk and Suffolk , North Yorkshire and Shropshire , to mitigate the risk of further outbreak of disease occur . in area where an AIPZ be in force , it be a legal requirement for all birdkeeper , whether they have pet bird , commercial flock or just a few bird in a backyard flock , to follow strict biosecurity measure to limit the spread of , and eradicate , the disease , include — when mandatory housing measure be a requirement of an AIPZ — a requirement to keep their bird house . the need for an AIPZ be keep under regular review as part of the Government ' s work to monitor and manage the risk of avian influenza . together with the devolved government , we will closely monitor the need to extend mandatory housing to other area of the country . while avian influenza be primarily consider a disease of bird , it can infect human , although this be a very rare event in the UK and the risk to the general public remain very low . nevertheless , protect public health remain of paramount importance , and DEFRA and the APHA work closely with regional UK Health Security Agency health protection team to monitor the situation and provide health advice to person at infect premise and those who have be in close contact with infected wildlife as a precaution . as a further reassurance , the Food Standards Agency have confirm that avian influenza pose a very low food safety risk for UK consumer . properly cook poultry and poultry product , include egg , be safe to eat . DEFRA and the APHA will continue to work with birdkeeper , who be on the frontline of this terrible disease . compensation be pay for any healthy keep bird cull . as the House will know , compensation be update to involve early assessment of the number of healthy bird and swifter calculation of compensation . that allow DEFRA to provide early certainty about entitlement to compensation , well reflect the impact of outbreak on premise , and lead to swifter payment to help to stem any cash - flow pressure . order . I be sure that the Minister have conclude his remark . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this be a very difficult time for birdkeeper and farmer , particularly those whose bird have die or be cull , and all those who have have to upend their flock and move they inside , give the impact that do so can have on both the mental and economic resilience of individual . I thank everyone who be involve in tackle avian influenza , and be work tirelessly to prevent the spread of this disease , include in my constituency . I thank the Minister for his response . I regret that the Secretary of State have not make an oral statement on this important matter ; particularly in the light of the revelation that a farm worker have be infect with avian influenza , I would have think that the Secretary of State would have think to update the House . however , we have manage to secure this urgent question , for which I be grateful . on the subject of the farm worker infect with the virus in the west midland , first , how be this person ? have they recover , and have anyone else be infect ? what be the wide risk to human health ? elsewhere , one of the large and most modern egg - lay site in the country have be affect , with more than a million bird be cull . give the site ' s significant role in process the UK ' s barn egg production , what discussion be the Minister have with the sector to mitigate the impact on supply ? will he please update we on his discussion with the devolved government about introduce similar restriction to those in England ? of course bird , and indeed viruse , do not recognise border . how be he ensure that compensation be make without delay , and how much be it cost ? be the Department keep the scheme under review , include the loss of profit for farmer and the conservation impact for zoos housing rare and critically endanger specie , such as the Bali starle at Battersea zoo , which I visit this week ? we be also concern by report that the avian influenza vaccination taskforce have stall . be that correct and , if so , why ? finally , DEFRA Ministers — Order . the shadow Minister be try my patience . we have a lot of business to get through today , and time limit be there for a reason . I call the Minister . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for her important question . first , I reassure she and the House that the individual in question be , in my understanding , make a full recovery , but obviously we want to ensure that no one be put at undue risk . the advice be clear : the only people at risk be those who be in very close proximity . People should follow the guidance and advice . on mitigate sector supply , my understanding be there be sufficient supply within the system . although the right hon . member be absolutely right to raise the point that it be a significant and large producer that be affect , we be confident that supply be secure . on work with the devolved administration , my official be in regular contact , as I say in my opening statement . the situation be be constantly monitor . the right hon . Member will be familiar with the compensation arrangement because they be the same as when she and her colleague be in government . they be design to control the disease , but of course they be also absolutely important to secure cash flow for farmer . my recollection from previous bout of avian influenza be that there be serious problem with delay and with compensation , because farmer who be try to do a preventive cull of their bird have to wait for an inspection to take place , and if that inspection have not take place , compensation would not be give . therefore , some bird die from avian influenza that should have be cull , and some bird do not die but the compensation be not pay . I would be grateful if the Minister update the House on exactly what the new arrangement for compensation will be . my hon . friend be absolutely right . he will recall the terrible outbreak a few year ago when exactly those question be raise and , as the shadow Minister , I ask similar question at the time . the compensation arrangement be change by the previous Government in a beneficial way , and I be absolutely confident at the moment that the delay we see before be not happen . but he raise an important point : anyone who have a suspicion of an outbreak should report it as soon as possible , and they should not be concern that they will suffer detriment from so do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . farmer and vet will remember the 2022 outbreak , which be the big we have see in the UK and which kill million of bird worldwide , so this new outbreak be of huge concern for three major reason . first , there be the impact on animal welfare , not just the bird catch avian influenza and die or be cull , but their have to be keep inside rather than be free range . secondly , there be the impact on farmer , their business and their mental health . as with any notifiable disease , this be hugely stressful , and it be hugely disruptive to business model . what be we do to ensure that compensation and support be give to farmer quickly ? thirdly , there be a huge potential impact on public health . while we fully understand that there be a low public health risk at the moment — this be a disease of bird — we have just come out of covid - 19 . we know that if someone be infect with human flu and potentially get infect with avian influenza , there be a risk that it become more infectious to human . what discussion be the Minister have with APHA and the Department of Health and Social Care to monitor the genotype ? let I deal first with the second of those two question . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . of course there be concern , but I can assure he and the House that the advice from the UK Health Security Agency be that avian influenza be primarily a disease of bird , and the risk to the health of the general public be very low . however , of course we be monitor it , and genetic testing and sequence be available to we for that . he be right about the impact on bird keeper and on farmer . it be why the compensation scheme be in place and work . we absolutely recognise the pressure on people and the effect on their mental health . have the Minister assess the Conservative Government ' s underspend of the agriculture budget ? we have indeed assess it . of course , it be extraordinary that that happen . in term of what we be do , the system be well resource to deal with these outbreak , and we work in a cross - party way on that . this outbreak be concern for the whole of Norfolk , and particularly for the bird - rearer in Broadland and Fakenham , but it highlight the critical importance of the Animal and Plant Health Agency in New Haw , and the plan for its full redevelopment . do the Government agree that that redevelopment be long overdue , and if so , will they commit to support it ? I thank my hon . friend — and he be a friend — for his concern . of course , this be of particular concern and interest to representative from the east of England , and I share that concern . we have discuss the future of Weybridge and the investment many time before . I gently point out that the Conservative Government have the opportunity over 14 year to make that investment . over £ 200 million have be allocate by this Government , and we will continue to make sure that the agency be properly resource . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . I do not think anybody would disagree with the comment by the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) about the redevelopment of the facility at Weybridge , but I suspect that once avian influenza be in the wild bird population , as it be here , even the good facility in the world will struggle to contain it . on disease containment , I remember the absolutely heartbreaking experience of walk along beach in Orkney and see dead body after dead body . be the Minister engage with the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and other major organisation so that he can at least be aware of the impact on the wild bird population ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee , who be absolutely right . we have hear harrowing account in this Chamber of the experience in member ' local community — the situation with wild bird be awful . of course , official and I be constantly in dialogue with those organisation , but the truth be that in the wild bird population there be not much we can do about it . I have one of the UK ' s large egg producer in my constituency . however , the other trend be that more bird be be keep in a domestic situation — hen , geese and duck . how be the Government monitor those who be not professional bird keeper and ensure that such situation be also subject to the necessary control and regulation ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . the importance of biosecurity can not be overstress — that be the way to tackle this . he be also right to say that amateur and small bird keeper be important , and that be why they be bring within the registration scheme , which be beneficial and welcome . scientist at the University of Glasgow find last month that avian influenza can spread to horse without any symptom . will the Minister clarify how the Government be monitor the spread of the virus among other specie ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right : we need to be very careful about that . I can assure she that those be exactly the kind of discussion that I be have with official . we be track that and have the technology these day to look closely at what be go on . I will not go into the expert account on the Floor of the House of how the serotype work , but I be happy to put she in contact with official if she need more information . I thank the Minster for his update to the House about the spread of avian flu . I want to ask a couple question . first , as this be happen in city as much as in rural area , how be people who live in city be make aware that they should look out for dead or die bird so that we can get a more accurate reflection of where it be spread ? secondly , what discussion have he have with Departments of the Scottish Government to ensure that we have reliable and up - to - date datum across these island ? the hon . Gentleman make strong point . I think there be general awareness of , and concern about , what be go on . it be important to say to people that , if they have concern and they see such thing , they should report they . on our work with the devolved administration , we have a very strong structure that allow all the devolve administration to be involve so that we have a consistent framework . again , we rely on the facility at the Animal and Plant Health Agency , base in New Haw in my constituency , and we thank it for its work . a few week ago , I ask the Minister if he would visit the site with I to see for himself the work that need to be do and the urgent need for massive investment in the site . do we have to wait until the next urgent question or statement before he will take I up on my offer ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his invitation . I have have numerous invitation . last week , I be in Northumberland look at rural crime , and this week I be at the Fenland SOIL — sustainability , opportunity , innovation , learning — conference . I will add the hon . Gentleman ' s invitation to my list . for my daughter ' s second birthday , I take she to the wonderful Birdland in Gloucestershire , which have hundred of different exotic and rare bird . could the Minister please tell I how he be go to support that type of business model and how he be go to keep staff and visitor safe ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his important question . everything we do to stop the spread will help business such as the one he describe . some specific rule and regulation also apply in those particular case , which I can make available to he if he wish . do the Minister accept that avian influenza represent an existential threat to business such as Kelly Turkeys in my constituency ? Paul Kelly have call this the covid of the poultry industry . do the Minister accept that it be likely , as with covid , that the only way forward will be vaccination ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important point . as he will be aware , significant international trade issue be involve , but as we look to a world in which we seem to have more and more of these case , that be certainly something that we keep under consideration . I thank the Government for their strong and fast response , which I know will be a big reassurance for lot of the farming community impact . may I ask the Minister to provide a bit more detail about the support we be give not just to those who be directly impact now , but to those who be understandably very deeply concerned about what this may mean for their business over the come month ? I thank my hon . friend for his very important question . I can assure he that an entire apparatus be in place to ensure that all reassurance can be give to the kind of business that the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) describe . from an animal welfare point of view , we will ensure that everybody involve in the sector have the kind of advice and support that be need . if my hon . friend have colleague who wish to look at the advice , they should look at the webpage available on Government website , which be significant and thorough . if people need advice , they should not hesitate to come to my official or to I , and we will point they in the right direction . I thank the Minister very much for his response to the urgent question . poultry and egg production contribute significantly to the Northern Ireland economy — it be value at some £ 600 million — so it be little wonder that the agricultural community have great concern . what discussion have the Minister have with the devolved nation , particularly the Northern Ireland Assembly , about put in place the support that be need , take into account that wild bird case have be find in the last two week in Northern Ireland ? I be , as ever , grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise the issue as it impact Northern Ireland . we have be develop a UK - wide response to this , and my official be in constant contact with official from his Administration . we will ensure that this UK - wide response continue to be in place , because it be very important that we work together on all these issue . I hope in the not - too - distant future to continue my tour of the country , and I very much look forward to take up his long - stand invitation — not only to Stormont , where I have be before , but to his fishing sector — and the very warm welcome that I know I will receive . order . the sitting be suspend . sit suspend . woman ' s Health Strategy ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care if he will make a statement on the woman ' s health strategy . I thank the hon . Lady for give I the opportunity to set out our commitment to the woman ' s health strategy and everything that this Government be do to fix our break nhs , clean up the mess that the Conservatives leave after 14 year and get woman treat on time again . when we come into office we inherit record waiting list . the gynaecology waiting list stand at just under 600 , 000 woman . let that sink in — 600 , 000 woman in pain , wait to be care for . almost half the woman on gynaecology waiting list be wait more than 18 week . that be why the Prime Minister kick off 2025 with our elective reform plan , set out how we will cut the long waiting list from 18 month to 18 week . our new agreement with the independent sector will mean that , where there be spare capacity in the private sector , woman will be treat fast for gynaecology care , pay for by the state . the Government be also commit to root out the appalling inequality in maternity care . we be support fail trust to make rapid improvement , train thousand more midwife for the first time , and we will set an explicit target to close the black and asian maternal mortality gap . we be pilot a training programme to help avoid brain injury for baby in childbirth and , if successful , we will crack on with roll it out nationally this year . in October , we extend the baby loss certificate service to help mum and dad who have suffer the heartbreak of pregnancy loss . let I also address the issue of woman ' s health hub . there be a target in last year ' s plan guidance to roll out pilot woman ' s health hub across the country by last December . today , there be at least 80 hub , and at least nine out of every10 integrate care system have an open woman ' s health hub . let I correct some fake news . we be not close these hub ; we be not cut they . the target to roll they out be in last year ' s planning guidance . it be achieve in 93 % of integrate care system , which be why the target be not repeat in this year ' s guidance — it have be meet in 39 out of 42 area . today , we have slimme down the number of target for the NHS so that we can focus on fix the fundamental — the system that the previous Government break . we be instruct the NHS to prioritise : cut waiting time for operation , a & E and ambulance ; make it easy for people to see a gp or a dentist ; and improve the mental health of the nation . that will mean around 60 , 000 woman with suspect cancer be diagnose early and treat fast ; more than 200 , 000 extra woman will be treat within 18 week , as we drive down long wait ; and few woman will be force to wait 12 hour in A & E . that be the difference that a Labour Government be make to woman ' s health . for too long , a woman ' s experience of the health service have be one of be push from pillar to post . crucially , woman ' s voice have be ignore and response to their pain , suffering , poor sex life and traumatic birth have be too slow . overall , woman have a sense of be forget . some 2 . 4 million more woman be in work under our Conservative Government . pain and suffering be affect too many woman and their ability to remain in the labour market , result in early retirement or not have their true career potential fulfil . we take direct action , crucially , by listen to woman ' s experience . we have almost 100 , 000 response to our call for evidence on the gender health gap . we appoint Dame Lesley Regan as the woman ' s health ambassador , and Helen Tomlinson as the cross - government menopause ambassador to find out the experience of woman employ in different sector . we deliver and fund new woman ' s health hub and create join - up service in the community . the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists estimate that remove the requirement of integrate care board to have a woman ' s health hub will impact 600 , 000 woman on waiting list in England , create long wait , disease progression that could be prevent , and result in more woman attend a & E , unable to work , care or live a fulfilled life . labour ' s manifesto say that it will prioritise woman ' s health . woman be now report to be a lobby group , relegate to be unheard once again . will the Minister confirm whether it be true that the target to deal with woman ' s need will be drop ? if so , what be her justification for that ? will she be deliver on the roundly welcome woman ' s health strategy from 2022 ? a total of 1 , 300 family give evidence to the all - party group on birth trauma . what be the plan to drive up maternity safety standard across the country ? will there be a response to that ? will Dame Lesley Regan be sack , will she remain the woman ' s health ambassador , or will she be replace , as Helen Tomlinson be , by someone who seem more interested in sell book than in deliver on the ground for woman ? what step be be be take on sex - specific language in health communication and guidance — order . the shadow Minister will know that there be a time limit , which she have exceed . I have be very generous . I call the Minister . I address most of those point in my outline statement . I think the shadow Minister write her comment when the Opposition think that we be cancel thing , only to find out that we be not cancel thing . I have make clear our commitment to the woman ' s health strategy and how we seek to instruct the system at a local level to serve the need of woman and particularly prioritise those waiting list . as I have outline , the target have already be achieve . unusually , I will give a bit of credit to the other side , because a lot of this be roll out and it be good practice , and the system still think that it be good practice , so sometimes Opposition Members should take a win . we be committed to that , it be embed in the system , and we look forward to outcome be improve for woman . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . the Committee report on woman ' s reproductive health , start under our fantastic predecessor , lay out how medical misogyny have leave far too many woman suffer . woman have be leave undiagnosed for debilitate condition such as endometriosis for an average of eight year — not for treatment , for diagnosis . black woman be four to five time more likely to die during childbirth , and the rate of maternal death in the UK have rise by 15 % in the last 10 year . the lead cause of that be suicide , account for 39 % of death in the first year postpartum . do the Minister therefore agree that woman , and woman of colour especially , have bear the brunt too often of 14 year of disastrous health policy ? how can the Government reverse this trend ? I thank the Committee Chair for her question . I think she be congratulate the previous Committee and Chair rather than those who be now in opposition . I be very pleased to witness some of that work when we be in opposition , and she be absolutely right about it . the work of many woman member when in opposition , and , to be fair , of many woman in the previous Government , have make sure that issue around endometriosis have rise up the agenda ; indeed , we have a good debate in the Chamber recently . we be committed to take forward the strategy . we think the health hub , for example , be do a good job , but there be a lot of learn to be do on they , and we will continue to do that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . nearly 600 , 000 woman be wait for treatment on gynaecology waiting list in England ; the long wait be lead to preventable disease progress and it be one of the bad specialty for long wait . the Care Quality Commission have investigate and report that 65 % of maternity unit be not as safe as they should be . that high number could almost be consider a public health crisis , and it have lead to the high amount of negligent payout due to avoidable injury and even death . this absolutely need to be address . many woman , such as my partner Emma , have have to fight for year to get just a diagnosis for endometriosis , let alone any treatment , have be tell for year that the symptom be completely normal and do not need investigate . in the Government ' s — order . I know I be be difficult on time limit , but the liberal Democrat spoke - person should have one minute in an urgent question , which the hon . Gentleman have already far exceed . perhaps he will come up with a question in one sentence for the Minister . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . yes , in one sentence : the Government ' s manifesto rightly say that " never again will woman ' s health be neglect " . can we have assurance that we will not remove the ICB requirement to have woman ' s health hub ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight those long wait . that be why we particularly highlight gynaecology for attention in the elective reform plan . it be shocking that the last Government leave 600 , 000 woman on these list , and move back to make sure people wait no long than 18 week will predominantly be help those woman . the hon . Gentleman be also right to highlight the appalling maternity situation . the Secretary of State and my noble Friend Baroness Merron , who lead in this area , have meet many family to discuss their experience , and we know those experience be unacceptable . we know there be big issue around staffing , and it be a priority to work with NHS England to make sure that we grow workforce capacity as quickly as possible so that we can be sure that those situation be safe . there be many debate in this place about the issue and we will continue to update the House . under the last government , five time more research go into erectile dysfunction , which affect 19 % of man , than go into premenstrual syndrome , which affect 90 % of woman . woman be wait more than eight year for endometriosis diagnosis . GPs be not require to undertake a gynaecological rotation within their training . woman ' s health must be put at the head of our agenda . will the Minister assure woman in this country that thing will change under this government ? I absolutely will give my hon . friend that assurance . the situation will change partly because there be more people like she and more woman in this place . we have more woman across all party raise this issue and more woman in senior position in the National Institute for Health and Care Research . crucially , we have woman lead in science and research . deal with the misogyny around the system and in medical system be also important for make sure that woman lead this work . we want to make sure that the NIHR , which have a strategy to address this issue , rectify the situation that she outline . the Minister will be aware of the Ockenden report back in 2022 , which highlight the tragic case of more than 200 mother and baby who be kill over a period of year at the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust . Donna Ockenden recently return to the trust and say that she be surprised and disappoint to hear from those parent and family affect that the trust have not be communicate as well as it should have be and have not be update the family in a timely manner . do the Minister agree not only that communication be key , but also that review , such as those undertake by Donna Ockenden , should have the remit to go back to check and monitor the progress of maternity service that be either improve or not ? I completely agree with the right hon . member . Donna Ockenden ' s work be hugely valuable , and a lot of faith and trust have be place in it , particularly by family . I do not know specific date , but the Secretary of State and my noble Friend Baroness Merron , who lead on this work , have be discuss the matter with Donna Ockenden . I be happy to get back to the right hon . member with the detail . on the specific point about the remit , I do not know the answer to that question . it be entirely sensible to look at progress and learn from mistake . I know it be a challenge system , and we have to learn from those area . if there be specific thing to report back to the right hon . member , I will get back to he , but this issue be absolutely a priority . the Secretary of State be meet family directly . we know and understand that we have to do much well on this for everybody . have listen to the shadow Minister , I be slightly tempt to suggest to the Minister that our woman ' s health strategy include provision for the treatment of collective memory loss . the shadow Minister completely ignore the fact that the Tories let our NHS fall into disrepute over the past 14 year . I want to ask specifically about how our health strategy will deal with treatment and support for young people , particularly young woman , suffer from depression and anxiety . that follow a tragic case in my constituency and a coroner ' s report last week , which find that our local hospital be not able to support that patient . my hon . friend be right to highlight some tragic incident , and I know she will be work hard on behalf of her constituent . we be absolutely committed to the woman ' s health strategy . clearly , that will be take forward as part of the 10 - year plan , and it be an important part of that . I meet my noble friend Baroness Merron yesterday and the team support that plan to make sure that we understand how those key issue be take forward . this be an opportunity , if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , to say that the consultation on that plan be still open for idea . we be keen to hear in particular from young people to make sure that we get a true representation . these sort of thing be not often consult on , so we encourage young people and people who be suffer from depression and mental health issue to contribute their thought about the system they face as part of our 10 - year plan consultation . I be sure we all welcome the move to reduce waiting list and recognise that the woman ' s health strategy be a 10 - year plan . but give the enormous problem highlight by the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) and my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , do the Minister appreciate that , to many woman who be have trouble access often fragment gynaecological service , it will seem like a vital facility be about to be lose and that the Government ' s promise of " never again " will sound hollow ? what will the Government do to reassure all the woman who be concerned about this move ? I be not entirely clear what the hon . Member be refer to . I have be clear that we be committed to the woman ' s health strategy , and we will take it forward as part of the 10 - year plan . Most of the — [ interruption . ] if it be about the woman ' s health hub , they be mainly there but in different form and with different level of service . we want to ensure that the system reflect their local population need . that be an entirely proper way to go about thing . as I say , unusually , we think that many of the hub , which be roll out as pilot under the previous Administration , be do a good job in most area — although not everywhere , so we want to learn from the pilot . our commitment be absolutely to woman . that be why gynaecology waiting list be particularly target : we have 600 , 000 woman on they . woman should feel really assure about the support that the Government be give they and their health , to prioritise their health . we be keen to learn more about woman ' s health hub . they will be different in different place because they have different population , and that be entirely in keep with the direction of travel of the Government . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) for her work in raise the serious health inequality that woman across the UK face every single day . do the Minister agree that we need more expertise in woman ' s health issue in primary care setting to ensure early diagnosis and that woman get the treatment they need at the early point ? my hon . friend make an excellent point about both the work of the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , and the importance of primary and community care recognise , listen to and support woman through woman ' s health , as well as make sure that our knowledge and good practice be spread across the team . this be an area where different system have woman ' s health hub use different team and different technology , and they have different link to secondary care colleague and specialist colleague . by listen to each other and work together , they be so good at spread some of that good practice . I welcome the Minister come to the House to answer the urgent question , because the argument she be put forward seem slightly confused . first , woman ' s health hub seem to be work on the whole , and there be lot of they , so why remove the target for everybody to have they if we be already 90 % there ? secondly , many of the hub seem to be do good work , and good practice be clearly emerge , so why cancel the target for the programme rather than spread that good practice throughout the system ? I think the broad question from the opposition be : why remove the target specifically relate to woman from the Government ' s agenda go forward ? it feel to many woman and to the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists , which have be in contact with I , that that downgrade the status of woman in the NHS . I will try to be brief , but this be hard to explain — [ interruption . ] no , this be to answer the right hon . Gentleman . target in the NHS have not be meet since 2015 , which be under his government ' s watch but , actually , this target have be meet — there be only three place in the country that do not have a hub — so there be no target for they because that have already be meet . the issue now be to look at the outcome from those hub to see how they be perform . we think , and the system think , that they do a good job . that be why they be stay , why we be committed to they , and why we want to learn from they . Bedford hospital once have a gold - standard home - birth service , but in recent month it have be run down within the wide trust due to unfilled vacancy . many of my constituent be concern at the prospect of lose that service , which put woman ' s need and health choice first . will the woman ' s health strategy ensure that woman can access a consistent midwifery service that provide genuine choice for safe home birth ? my hon . friend make an excellent point about maternity service , which be inconsistent and not good enough around the country . it be a source of great alarm for many people . maternity absolutely remain a high priority within the overall woman ' s health strategy . if you be black and have a baby , you be more than three time more likely to die than if you be white and have a baby . I be sure that the Minister and Members across the House will agree that that be a national disgrace . I be encourage to hear the Minister mention a target for maternal mortality disparity in her opening remark , but I would be grateful if she could confirm that the elimination of that disparity be the target and update the House on when the NHS plan to achieve that . the hon . Lady make the point about use target . this be something that be a high priority , but it be not happen . that be absolutely why I mention it in my opening comment — to ensure that that happen . forty year ago this month , my wife almost die of an eclamptic seizure because a general practitioner have fail to recognise the symptom of pre - eclampsia . accord to the most recent report on pre - eclampsia , four time as many woman be die of pre - eclampsia today than be die in 2012 . that be an absolute disgrace . if man get pre - eclampsia , they would have solve the problem many , many year ago . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] will the Minister assure I and everyone else that the woman ' s health strategy will focus on pre - eclampsia , and try to finally find a solution ? my hon . friend make a very powerful case and talk of an experience that he and his wife go through forty year ago , which highlight that it can sometimes take an unacceptably long time to get what be know as good practice through the system and to have that consistency for woman and their family across the overall system . we absolutely need to ensure that maternity service understand good practice and that it be roll out properly across the country . in an early answer , the Minister rightly talk about the arrangement the Government have over spare capacity in the independent sector . my female constituent and woman up and down the land want to know what that actually mean in practice : what do that mean for the 260 , 000 woman wait more than 18 week for gynaecology treatment ? how many treatment will the independent sector be deliver , and to what timescale ? we need to get those woman the treatment that they need . the hon . Gentleman can tell his woman constituent what I hope everyone across the House will be able to tell their constituent : this Government inherit 600 , 000 woman on those waiting list , and we be commit — as say in our elective reform plan , which highlight gynaecology in particular — to get those waiting list down from 18 month to 18 week in the lifetime of this Parliament . I represent almost 40 , 000 woman , and they and the man who love they would invite the Minister to state explicitly that the Government will not draw down their access to woman ' s health hub or remove their woman ' s health target . I have make that commitment several time from this Dispatch Box . we think the woman ' s health hub be work across the country — I do not know exactly how the hon . Gentleman ' s hub be work at the moment . only three area do not have a woman ' s health hub , and we expect they to get on with that and have one . we will ensure we have the learning from they across the country . the Minister get her tone wrong in deal with this urgent question . if a Minister turn up late for a UQ , the least they can do be take the question from the Opposition Front Bench seriously . Amanda Pritchard , the ceo of NHS England , have say that the health service do not " always have the need of woman at its heart . " what message do the Government think scrap woman ' s health target will send ? the chief executive be right that the previous Government do not have woman ' s health at the heart of their strategy , and that be why we do . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on HIV , AIDS and sexual health , may I ask the Minister about the very low take - up of pre - exposure prophylaxis among woman in the UK ? what step be be take to change that ? obviously , there be barrier such as stigma and low level of information , but do she agree that PrEP should not just be make available in sexual health setting , particularly as we have have the roll - out of opt - out testing ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for the work he do in this area . he do an excellent job and make an excellent point . I do not know the detailed answer to that question — it be not directly my area — but I be very happy to make sure that we write to he . I thank the Minister very much for her answer . the woman ' s health survey for Northern Ireland close tomorrow . through it , the Department of Health back home be hope to have a great understanding of how government fail woman . the result of this Northern Ireland - wide project will ensure the Department will be able to find the area that be lack , in particular endometriosis support . will the Minister make contact with the Northern Ireland Assembly to discuss the health strategy and to share the result and the datum , so that the UK Government and the Northern Ireland Assembly back home can work well together to make woman ' s health well across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? as I hope the hon . Gentleman know , I think the health need of woman in Northern Ireland and the waiting list there be particularly problematic , so find out anything our Department can to do support or share learn across the United Kingdom be a personal commitment of mine . I will absolutely make sure that we do that . I be happy to meet , talk or even visit , which I always like do . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on this incredibly important issue of the woman ' s health strategy , and the fact that the word " woman " have be exclude from the update planning guidance , could you help I understand this ? as a common courtesy to both you and the House , when a Minister be unable to organise herself such that she can get to the Chamber on time , be it not courteous to apologise to those of we she have keep wait before we be able to discuss this important subject ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her point of order . she be , of course , correct that it be courteous to the House for an apology to be make . five minute of time be waste this morning . I think the Minister would like to make a further point of order . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I absolutely , unequivocally apologise . I thank the Minister . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? I shall . the business for the week commence 3 February include : Monday 3 February — Second reading of the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill . Tuesday 4 February — debate on motion to approve the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2025 and the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2025 , follow by debate on motion to approve the draft Social Security ( Contributions ) ( rate , Limits and Thresholds Amendments , National Insurance Funds Payments and Extension of Veteran ' s Relief ) Regulations 2025 and the draft Child Benefit and Guardian ' s allowance up - rate order 2025 . Wednesday 5 February — motion relate to the police grant and local government finance report . Thursday 6 February — general debate on Government support for coalfield community , follow by a general debate on financial education . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 7 February — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 10 February will include : Monday 10 February — Second reading of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . Tuesday 11 February — if necessary , consideration of Lords amendment , follow by consideration in Committee and remain stage of the Arbitration Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 12 February — Second reading of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 13 February — general debate . subject to be announce . the House will rise for the February recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 13 February and return on Monday 24 February . before I call Joy Morrissey , I think it appropriate to wish she a happy birthday . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope that the House will join I in offer thought and prayer for victim and their family follow the collision this morning when an American Airlines plane crash into the Potomac follow a collision ; but I believe that the Leader of the House will join I in rejoice at the return of more of the israeli hostage today . it be an honour to respond to the right hon . Lady . serve with she on the Modernisation Committee , I have observe the energy that she put into bring this House into the second quarter of the 21st century . we be lucky to have someone so persuasive in her position , someone who really listen to member . [ hon . member : " but — " ] no but , Madam Deputy Speaker . I approach this session of business question in that spirit . one innovation that would be very welcome would be a commitment from the Leader of the House to provide our date for Opposition day debate , which we have still not receive . another extremely welcome innovation would be the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero find time to reply to numerous letter send by Opposition Members ; perhaps the Leader of the House could persuade he to do so , but perhaps she would have more luck with the Chancellor . as each week pass , our constituent face more and more negative consequence from the Chancellor ' s disastrous Budget . last week the Office for National Statistics reveal that there have be a staggering 47 , 000 drop in employment in December , the sharp fall since the pandemic . Job vacancy have also collapse . the day before the Chancellor ' s Budget , in which she launch her attack on british business , there be 858 , 000 job vacancy in our economy ; now the number have fall to just 740 , 000 , a drop of 14 % in just two month . I know that she be proud of be the first female Chancellor , but would it not be even well for she to be know as the Chancellor who be brave enough to change course ? because of her Budget , business confidence have collapse . because of her Budget , growth have collapse . because of her Budget , employment be fall and unemployment be rise . because of her Budget , UK gilt yield be at an eye - watering level . because of her Budget , mortgage rate be now rise , despite her promise that she would bring they down . we have see a glimmer of hope with the Chancellor ' s u - turn on her non - dom policy , which have cause some of the UK ' s big taxpayer to flee her socialist nightmare . it be a welcome u - turn , but I feel for the Leader of the House and for Labour Members . I can not imagine that they ever think they would be explain why a Labour Government have U - turn on punish non - dom , but not on punishing pensioner . will the Leader of the House seek to persuade the Chancellor to be bold , change course again , and spare british pensioner , farmer , business , worker and household from more economic pain ? may we have a debate in Government time to explore the many area in which a Chancellor u - turn would indeed be welcome ? if not , will the Leader of the House ask the Chancellor to be bold and u - turn on punishing pensioner , and reinstate their winter fuel payment ? will she ask the Chancellor to be bold and u - turn to spare family farm that have put food on our table from her tax raid ? will she ask the Chancellor to be bold and u - turn to save business that create job , wealth and growth in this country from her catastrophic national insurance tax raid ? will she ask the Chancellor to be bold and u - turn on her 1970s - style tax and borrowing spree , to protect the household that now face rise mortgage cost because of she ? that be a task that I hope the Leader of the House will agree be in the interest of the House , its member , and the people of this country . all our thought be with those affect by the air crash in Washington DC . the scale of this tragedy be still unfold , and we send our deep sympathy to all those involve and those still carry out the rescue operation . this week see the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz . no one could ever forget visit Auschwitz - Birkenau , as I do with young people from my constituency with the Holocaust Educational Trust . we must never forget . I join the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) in welcome the further release of hostage in Israel and Gaza today . member will have notice that Mr Speaker be not in his Chair today . I can assure they that he be not take up a new act role on the set of " Emmerdale " . he be instead celebrate the life of another northern legend , at the funeral of Lord Prescott . I welcome the hon . member for Beaconsfield to business question , on her birthday . I very much welcome work with she on the Modernisation Committee . I have find her contribution to be greatly valuable and enlightening , and I know she do a really good job as a Whip and a constituency MP , support colleague across the House . give her contribution today , she could perhaps give a few tip to the shadow Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , when he return , because she have take a very business question - style approach . I will follow up with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero if there be issue with correspondence . the hon . Lady raise issue around the economy . I will gently remind she of a few stat . inflation be down now , thank to this Government . wage be grow at their fast rate in three year . we have create more than 70 , 000 job since we come into office , and business investment be at its high level in 19 year . PwC have just rate the UK the second good place in the world to invest after the US . the International Monetary Fund and the OECD both predict that Britain will be Europe ' s fast - grow major economy in recent year . this government be get on with the job , and it have be another week of deliver the change that people vote for . the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill will be introduce today , with real action to tackle small boat and smuggling gang , in contrast to the Conservatives ' costly Rwanda gimmick . the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill get its Second reading next week . despite promise from the conservative party , it fail to bring that forward . that important piece of legislation will address the huge cost of fraud in our welfare system . we have take major stride to get growth go , take the difficult , bold decision that the hon . Lady ask for , many of they on issue that have be raise in business question over recent week . they include the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , create the UK ' s answer to silicon valley ; the redevelopment of the huge site around the Old Trafford football ground , which even I can welcome , as a City fan ; and , thank to the tireless campaigning of Mr Doncaster Airport himself , my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) , their airport be set to become thrive once again . we be back airport expansion across the congested south - east . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) will be over the moon that we be invest in Cornwall ' s mineral industry , which he have raise with I many time . we be give the go - ahead to the low Thames crossing , which my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) have long champion and raise with I . we be support Port Talbot and Teesside through the advanced fuel fund and Wrexham and Flintshire through the advanced manufacturing investment zone . we be build nine reservoir — the first in 30 year — to provide water for new home . we be review the Green Book , to enable well public investment and growth outside London and the south - east . we be take difficult decision , some of which the hon . member for Beaconsfield raise , because we have to fix the foundation to get our country grow again , so that we can invest in the public service that people desperately need and vote for at the last election . brent be know as the reggae capital of Europe . Bob Marley write some of his good hit there , and we have Janet Kay and Carroll Thompson , who celebrate their birthday this week , too . today , in the Jubilee Room , we will be honour one of the lead singer of Boney M , Liz Mitchell . as people will know , the band ' s hit include " Daddy Cool " , " Rasputin " and " Rivers of Babylon " . sing it ! I would sing it , but my voice be a little bit croaky today . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Liz Mitchell ? maybe we should have a debate in Government time about music and how it can be a unifier and bring about community cohesion . I congratulate Brent on be the reggae capital . we can all recognise some of the great hit that my hon . friend mention , and I be pleased that she be host an event today in the Jubilee Room for Liz Mitchell of Boney M . I can not think of a decent pun on " Daddy Cool " , but my hon . friend be definitely " brent cool " . I watch her social medium and TikToks , and she probably have a glitter career ahead of she in that regard . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I echo the word that have be speak about the unfold tragedy in Washington DC ? my thought go out to all the victim and their family . when I be out and about talk to people on the doorstep in my Chelmsford constituency , the issue of crime often come up . that be not because Chelmsford be a criminal hotspot — far from it — but because of the often frustrating low - level crime that take place , which concern my constituent . they often say that they want to see more bobby on the beat . they want to see more uniformed police patrol our street , make their presence feel , and reassure the community by build relationship and deter wannabe criminal . much of that presence be provide by police community support officer , who work with police officer and share some of their power . they do genuinely wonderful work that free up precious police officer time for other and perhaps more complex policing issue . in short , they be very welcome and an important part of our community . in Essex there be 99 pcso , but not for much long . essex police have just announce that they be get rid of all of they , as they face a £ 12 . 5 million budget shortfall for 2025 - 26 . I doubt that Essex police will be the only force to consider such drastic action , and I be sure that I be not alone in be extremely concerned about the implication of that decision . will the Leader of the House consider ask the Home Secretary to make a statement on the effect on our community , and on what can be do to salvage the situation before the experience of all these dedicated individual be lose and society suffer as a consequence ? I thank the hon . Lady for send her thought to those affect by the air crash in Washington DC . she , the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) and I be all member of the Modernisation Committee , and we represent three different party . it be great to work with she on that Committee , and on the House of Commons Commission . as a new member , she have really get to grip with some of the difficult issue that we face in this place . I thank the hon . Lady for draw attention to the challenge that her constituent face with bobby on the beat in her area . she will know that the funding for Essex police will increase by £ 25 million next year , but I absolutely share her view that strengthen neighbourhood policing be vital for tackle crime and antisocial behaviour . we be commit to provide an additional 13 , 000 neighbourhood officer and pcso nationwide , but local decision be a matter for local police . she can rest assure that after year of cut to police force , we be determined to recruit extra officer . I will certainly make sure that the Home Secretary have hear her question , and that she get a full response about what be happen in her local area . Flexible Engineered Solutions International in my constituency be an excellent example of a strong and successful business . it deliver project in oil and gas , and in renewable . last week , it host client from Rio de Janeiro , and the Brazilians travel on the newly reopen Northumberland line . they travel 5 , 600 mile , and the new line be the last leg . it be fantastic . can we have a debate in Government time on the strategic importance of good local transport infrastructure that allow people from place like Brazil easy access to constituency such as Blyth and Ashington ? I be delighted that , after 60 year of closure , the Northumberland line be finally reopen last December . I would have love to have be a passenger on that train , and to have hear how the conversation between my hon . friend and the Brazilians flow — or not , as the case might be . he be absolutely right that vital transport infrastructure , especially in our region and in constituency like his , be the bedrock of ensure economic growth , prosperity , rise wage and good job for his constituent . I be delighted to support his call for that today . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I be sure the whole House will express condolence to the victim at the Kumbh Mela in India who sadly lose their life or be badly injure . in addition to the business announce by the Leader of the House , there will be a debate in Westminster Hall on Tuesday 4 February on apprentice and Apprenticeship Week . on Thursday 6 February , there will be a debate on open access to rail service , follow by a debate on debt cancellation for low - income country . on Tuesday 11 February , there will be a debate in Westminster Hall on the cost of energy . on Thursday 13 February , there will be a debate on HIV Testing Week , follow by a debate on the prevention of cardiovascular disease . after the recess , on Tuesday 25 February , there will be a debate on maternity service , which we have hear about this morning . on Thursday 27 February , there will be a debate on rural crime , potentially follow by a debate on mental health support in educational setting . we have a veritable queue of debate for the Chamber , so it be a bit disappointing that there will be a general debate in Government time next week . we have debate line up that will take we through to the April recess . will the Leader of the House give we an early indication of when the estimate day debate will be hold ? I ask because we have to consider application for , and advertise , debate to be hold in the week commence 3 March . yesterday , I meet representative from Balochistan , Sindh and the Muttahida Qaumi movement in Pakistan . they recount to I atrocity too horrible to describe , commit against minority community . we give Pakistan million of pound in aid , money that appear to be divert away from the community that desperately need it . can we have a statement from the Foreign Secretary or the Minister for Development on what will be do to make sure that our aid be concentrate on area of Pakistan that desperately need it , and that human right triumph and the money be use effectively ? I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for inform the House of the important debate that his Committee have allocate for the come week . I think we have be very generous in allocate Backbench Business time in recent week , and we will continue to be so . we have be do our good to announce business as far in advance as possible — sometimes three week in advance — which be unprecedented in recent time . I will ensure that he be make aware of when the estimate day debate be likely to be . the hon . Gentleman raise important issue about Pakistan . as he will know from his very good attendance at business question , the subject be regularly raise with I and other Ministers . the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , have recently raise a number of these matter with the Government of Pakistan , and I think it would make a good topic for an update statement to the House . I will ensure that minister have hear that call today . four Carlisle man , Rae Daly Armstrong , Ivan Cooke , William Lewis Johnston and Charles Ross , be among almost 500 casualty from the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit who serve in the second world war . the casualty rate for that very small unit be the second high in the war . when plan the debate and event in this House that will mark the 80th anniversary of the end of the second world war , will the Leader of the House give particular consideration to that small unit , which suffer such great loss during the war ? I be sure the whole House will join my hon . friend in put on record our thank for those involve with the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit and its important work . as she will be aware , we have fund for a huge number of activity to mark the 80th anniversary of the end of the second world war . the Minister responsible will make a statement shortly about how that funding will be allocate and what activity will be involve . I will ensure that the Minister hear my hon . friend ' s plea for commemoration of the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit to be part of those activity . I thank the Leader of the House for her further commitment to the development of aviation in the south - east , which I be sure will extend to the development of Manston airport in my constituency . it already have a development consent order and be , in common parlance , shovel - ready . during the debate on the Climate and Nature Bill last Friday , I raise the subject of public funding for the Drax power station , an environmentally wholly unacceptable operation . at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday , the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) again raise the issue of Drax and point to a KPMG report that suggest that the funding for Drax have be claim illegally . can we have a debate on that report and on the funding of Drax in Government time ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for welcome the Government ' s commitment to alleviate passenger congestion in the south - east , and for his local airport ' s commitment to do that , which I be sure we all welcome . he raise some serious matter , which be mention at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday , about the Drax organisation and whether public fund have be use appropriately . this Government take such report incredibly seriously , and I will ensure that the House be update in due course . I too wish the shadow Minister a happy birthday . in October 2024 , people from across Newcastle - under - Lyme come together for the unveiling of a wonderful statue of her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II in Queen ' s Gardens . there have be much talk of Heathrow airport in recent day . as our nation will mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of the late queen in April 2026 , will the Leader of the House back my call to rename Heathrow after her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II ? what a wonderful tribute that would be to a lifetime of service to the country and the Commonwealth . I thank my hon . friend for raise that excellent idea with I . he be absolutely right that we need to appropriately mark the late queen ' s extraordinary 70 - year reign in a very big way , give all that she contribute to our public life and national identity . he will be aware that the Queen Elizabeth Memorial Committee have be set up to consider how good we could do that , and I will ensure that his suggestion be feed into that committee . yesterday , I re - establish the all - party parliamentary group on freedom of speech . I be sure member on the Government Front Bench will welcome that , give their recent slight change of opinion on free speech in high education . will the Leader of the House find space in Government time for a broad debate on freedom of speech , give that her neighbour , the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) , be the deputy chairman of the APPG ? in addition , will she clarify what she say at the start of business question about the low Thames crossing get the go - ahead ? my understanding be that the development consent order have not yet be pass ; in fact , it have be delay twice . that clarity will be important for people in constituency like mine , who be eagerly await the Government ' s action in that area . the right hon . Gentleman will know that this Government be commit to free speech and to make sure that everybody have the ability to express themselves freely and without recourse . he might want to join my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) , to apply for a Backbench Business slot . we have have a number of urgent question and statement to the House on those matter , but I will ensure that we be update . on the low Thames crossing , the right hon . Gentleman will know that the Chancellor give her commitment to that project in her speech yesterday . there be , as always with such matter , the quasi - judicial process that have to be go through , which be a matter for the Secretary of State for Transport , but I will ensure that he be keep update on that . today , Lord Ericht have rule that the consent for the Rosebank and Jackdaw oil and gas field be grant unlawfully by the previous Government because they have fail to properly account for the effect on the climate of burn the fossil fuel that would be extract . can we have a debate on the future of the Rosebank and Jackdaw oil and gas field and on the UK join the country that form the Beyond Oil and Gas Alliance ? my hon . friend will know that we have be clear that we will not challenge the judicial review in this case . we will consult on new guidance that take into account the Supreme Court ' s rule on environmental impact assessment to enable the industry to secure job and invest in the economy of the future . we aim to conclude that by the spring of this year and I will ensure that the House be update . the my name ' 5 Doddie Foundation have tell I that , aside from funding , motor neurone disease research need a well regulatory framework to encourage investment into this country and to make it easy for UK citizen to take part in overseas trial . that research benefit not only the one in 300 who will develop MND but those who develop other neurodegenerative condition , such as the many form of dementia . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to make a statement to the House on that issue ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to raise that issue , because people be still suffer , as be the family of those affect by MND . we need more research . we have some great campaigner , such as Kevin Sinfield , who have raise a huge amount of money . the hon . Lady be right that access to trial and research be critical . I will ensure that she get a ministerial update on what the Government be do . constituent in the village of Killamarsh in my constituency , a community of just over 9 , 000 people , do not now have any access to cash — not even an ATM — in the village . will the Minister grant a debate on access to cash in semi - rural community and make sure that my constituent ' voice be hear ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue for her constituent . it get raise with I many time in business question , because access to cash and make sure we have banking hub in all our community , which this Government be commit to do , be critical to thrive market town and high street such as those in her constituency . we have already open more than a hundred banking hub , and I will ensure that she be update , include on the banking hub in her constituency . a rail freight interchange be be propose near Hinckley and Burbage in my constituency . before Christmas , the Planning Inspectorate pass its judgment on it and the then Transport Secretary , the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , say she be " minded to refuse " the application . however , in an unprecedented decision , the Department extend the call for further information , which close in a couple of week ' time . after yesterday ' s speech from the Chancellor , there be grow concern among my community that the project might be greenlighte . in the light of that , while I know that the Leader of the House can not comment specifically on that case , will she write to the new Transport Secretary , the right hon . member for Swindon South ( Heidi Alexander ) , to make sure that all protocol be follow as they be write ? may we have a debate in Government time on have a join - up national strategy on rail freight interchange and where they be place ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise what I be sure be a huge issue for his constituent . he be right that I can not comment on the specific of the case , but I know that the Secretary of State for Transport take her quasi - judicial role in such case extremely seriously and be mindful to ensure that due process be follow in all circumstance . I will raise the issue that he have raise with I with Ministers today . it be vital that we upgrade rail freight capacity in this country . we be now at capacity in many place . interchange with other service be vital , and I will ensure that he be update . yesterday , it be report that a former constituent of Kensington and bayswater , Roman Abramovich , owe up to £ 1 billion in UK tax — potentially a big case than even Bernie Ecclestone . do my right hon . friend share the country ' s anger at people such as Roman Abramovich use complex corporate structure and british overseas territory to dodge tax while other pay their fair share , and will she ensure that time be make to scrutinise whether his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have all the resource it need to pursue the case and recover as much money as possible for the Treasury ? my hon . friend be right to raise tax evasion , tax avoidance and , in some case , illegal tax avoidance — industrial - scale tax avoidance such as in the case he raise . obviously , I will not get into individual case , but the gap be still too wide . just a few year ago , the tax gap between what be be avoid and what be be collect be a staggering £ 36 billion . we be recruit 5 , 000 new HMRC compliance officer and aim to close the tax gap over the come year . this week , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation forecast child poverty level across England and Wales for the next five year . the result be stark : child poverty rate be forecast to increase in both labour - run Wales and labour - run England . however , there be hope and a way forward . child poverty rate in Scotland , which be already estimate to be the low in the UK , be set to drop far , with the SNP Scottish Government ' s scottish child payment recognise as a drive force in that reduction . can we have an urgent statement from the UK Government on extend the Scottish Government ' s approach to child poverty , include the scottish child payment , to the rest of these island to ensure that a reduction in child poverty be not confine solely to Scotland ? this Government be absolutely committed to tackle child poverty . we inherit a very challenging context from the previous Government . the child poverty taskforce have be set up , and have funding . its urgent work have begin , and we will publish the child poverty strategy in the spring . the hon . Gentleman mention the SNP ' s plan to end the two - child cap in Scotland , but he will know that there be not a single penny to back that up . it be a promise in the never - never land , try to make politic out of this issue . I suggest that he take seriously what we be do to tackle child poverty , rather than make party political point . rochdale get together after serve be open a brand - new military veteran and community hub at R - KIX sport centre this Saturday . will the Leader of the House join I in thank all the local business and charity that donate computer , carpet and even new window for this new hub , which will support job search and provide skill help ? will she congratulate in particular Royal Navy veteran Adam Trennery on his excellent initiative , which will help all veteran in Rochdale ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Adam Trennery and all those involve in the get together after serve team . it sound like a really great initiative to support veteran in his constituency . the Government take these sort of initiative very seriously , and I thank he for raise it . could the Leader of the House bring forward a statement on smart meter and their roll - out ? she may be aware that there be a geographic divide in the United Kingdom in the original roll - out , whereby property essentially north of the M62 be supply with datum by something call the radio teleswitch service . the service be due to be switch off in June , but over 165 , 000 property in Scotland still rely on it , of which 3 , 745 be in my Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale constituency . it appear that the roll - out of the new meter will not be able to meet the timescale of the switch - off , and it be important that we hear the response from Ministers to that . the right hon . member raise a very important matter , and I thank he for do so , because we recognise how important it be to have a smooth transition for consumer away from the radio teleswitch service . I be concerned to hear what he say about that be off track for many of his constituent . we will continue to work closely with Ofgem and the RTS taskforce to ensure that the deadline be meet , but I will absolutely ensure that minister come to this House regularly and update he and other member on progress . my constituent Clare Rogers come to my surgery after she lose her son to a ketamine addiction . Clare tell I of the severe pain and neurological damage he suffer . a crisis of ketamine usage among our young people have become apparent , and we must look to mental health and addiction service because they be ultimately the one that will treat addiction , prevent relapse and give people a chance to turn their life around . will the Leader of the House provide time for member to discuss this issue , which go across the Home Office , the Department for Education and the Department of Health and Social Care , so that our young people understand the harm of ketamine usage and so that we can put this issue to bed ? I be sadden to hear the case that my hon . friend raise . she be absolutely right that ketamine be extremely dangerous , and the rise in its use across many of our town and city be deeply concern . this issue have be raise with I a number of time in these session , so I will ensure that a response be make available for all member about how the Government be tackle it . I ask this question of the Leader of the House on behalf of my constituent and neighbouring constituent from Cheadle , because their MP , my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) , be on paternity leave follow the birth of beautiful baby Poppy last week . he , his partner Lou and Poppy be all do well , and I be sure the whole House send they our very good . Stepping Hill hospital in Hazel Grove have a report repair backlog of £ 130 million , yet it do not qualify for the new hospital programme . will the Leader of the House encourage Health Ministers to come to the House to update we with a statement on what the plan be to repair those hospital that do not qualify for the new hospital programme ? I join the hon . member in congratulate the hon . member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) on the birth of his daughter Poppy last week , and I thank she for step in to do some cover for he . I be very familiar with Stepping Hill hospital and can appreciate the state of disrepair it be in and how much it be in need of capital investment . the hon . Member will know that this Government inherit a hospital building and capital investment programme that be , frankly , a work of fiction : it have no money back it up and deadline that be never ever go to be deliver . we have now turn it into an actual plan of action for those hospital , but I will ensure that she get an update on Stepping Hill hospital and what more can be do . I thank the Leader of the House for her warm word early about the work many of we have do to get the low Thames cross greenlit by the Chancellor yesterday — something the Conservatives simply fail to do over 14 year . I warmly welcome the Government ' s commitment in the devolution White Paper to a strong new right to buy and maintain beloved community asset . stone parish council in my constituency have be attempt to purchase the freehold to the lad of the Village pub for some time . the pub have be an important part of Stone village since 1793 , play a significant role in community life . despite offer from the parish council at full asking price , the owner have refuse to negotiate or sell . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate in Government time about how we protect vital community asset like this one ? I take this opportunity to once again congratulate my hon . friend on all his campaigning and all the time he have raise with I and other Ministers the low Thames crossing — I be sure he be pleased with this week ' s announcement . I join my hon . friend in welcome some of the measure outline in our devolution White Paper around community ownership and the right to buy , so that community like his can take on and restore , or bring back to life , vital community asset like the one he describe . I be sorry to hear that the owner of the pub in his constituency be not engage in the way they should . the Secretary of State for Health make a promise to the House that the Government will recruit an extra 1 , 000 GPs . in a recent statement , he say they have already recruit hundred of GPs . we have ask for evidence of that claim , but the Minister of State for Care have not be able to provide we with a specific figure . will the Leader of the House inquire with her colleague as to whether hundred of new GPs have be hire , so that we can see what progress the Government be make ? the hon . member be absolutely right that it be vital that we recruit more gps . we have be leave a terrible situation with the NHS workforce . that be why workforce planning be at the heart of our recent 10 - year plan for the national health service . I will absolutely ensure that Health Ministers and the Secretary of State for Health regularly come to this House to update we on progress , and I will get he a correct figure , if I can , as soon as possible from the Department of Health and Social Care . my constituency have some of Britain ' s most beautiful beach , belove by swimmer and the local community in Portobello and Joppa . group like the Porty Water Collective be fight hard to protect the beach from sewage overflow and sewage - relate debris wash up on they . the UK Government be take big , important step to fix England ' s sewage crisis , but in Scotland , water be devolve to the SNP Government , we do not monitor sewage overflow as much as in England , and local group can not access what little datum there be . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time so we can solve Scotland ' s sewage crisis ? the beach around my hon . friend ' s constituency do indeed sound beautiful , and I be sure he regularly get his kit off to go for a swim in the sea there . he be right that it be unacceptable that sewage be still flow into the water and sea of Scotland and that we do not even know the extent of it . the Scottish Government , as he say , be responsible for scottish water and should frankly get their act together . we have bring forward legislation that will start to take action on this matter , and the Scottish Government should follow suit . King Lifting Ltd be a west country firm that operate mostly mobile crane across the UK . the company hold a Home Office licence for sponsorship , but can not employ the heavy crane operator it need . the work be not for everyone because it involve long stay away from home work on major infrastructure project , such as wind farm , High Speed 2 and our nuclear site . operator qualify as individual not through the company and must also be experience . every time King Lifting advertise , it get dozen of applicant , almost all from abroad , and the company train and test heavy crane operator to meet the UK ' s high standard . please may we have a debate on add crane operator to the UK immigration skilled worker eligible occupation list ? the hon . member be absolutely right that skill be at the heart of all these industry that be vital to create the new job and industry of the future through our mission to be a clean energy superpower by 2030 . the Government want to take more action to ensure that those who live and work in this country have access to such opportunity by have a much strong emphasis on skill development and work opportunity through reform the Department for Work and Pensions and jobcentre , but I will have a look at the issue she raise and ensure that she get a response . rise — unless question be short and answer be on point , we will not get everybody in . I call Mark Sewards . greenhill primary school serve the small Armley and Bramley part of my constituency . its excellent work be recognise in its most recent ofsted report this month , which state that the school have improve rapidly and pupil be safe . I have see that excellent work at first hand , include through the Solar for Schools programme . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the school for its amazing ofsted report , and grant a debate in Government time on the need for solar energy programme in primary school ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Greenhill primary school for its achievement in that regard . he be absolutely right that school could do more to provide sustainable energy for themselves through Solar for Schools — a school in my constituency have embark on that . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be keen on that issue , and I will ensure that he be update . in Kyrgyzstan , President Sadyr Japarov have sign two new law — the religion law and the amend law — impose strict regulation on religious community in that country . those law , effective from this Saturday , introduce more stringent requirement for registration , impose ban on unregistered religious activity and increase state control over religious practice , so freedom of religious belief be impede . the law introduce heavy fine for violation , raise concern about the restriction of religious freedom there . as the climate of uncertainty and fear among believer rise , will the Leader of the House join I in condemn those action , and will she speak to her Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office colleague about any policy implication ? once again , the hon . Gentleman raise an important breach of freedom of religious belief — in this case in Kyrgyzstan . I will of course raise that with the Foreign Office and ensure that he get a full reply about it . this week , I visit Rugby Art Gallery and Museum , which be manage brilliantly by Sally Godden and her team , and I meet Rugby Artists and Makers Network painter Jan Clark and Aish Magesh , ceramicist Belinda Edwards , and spinner Angela Dewes . do the Leader of the House agree that any support give to such municipally run gallery , or to creative entrepreneurship such as art at the Alex — a former pub run by Chris Pegler and Steve Davies — be much need to allow artist to showcase their talent , strengthen our community , inspire the next generation , boost the local economy and , importantly , make a living through their artistic endeavour , and will there be time for a debate on that ? the Government be absolutely committed to municipally run gallery such as the one that my hon . friend mention . the culture sector and the cultural offer be at the core of make our town , village and city vibrant place where people want to live and work . I join he in welcome that . , in my constituency , the Isle of Arran have be connect to the mainland through harbour at Brodick and Ardrossan for 190 year . I have mention before the Save Ardrossan Harbour group , which be fight hard to keep the ferry sailing from Ardrossan . although I welcome the new ferry that be currently sail from Troon to Brodick , I be concerned that few sailing be timetable . I have be make aware of an island constituent who have have to reschedule a health screening on the mainland three time as they be unable to make the journey and return home on the same day . have the ferry still be sail from Ardrossan as usual , that would not have be a problem . will my right hon . friend grant a debate to discuss the fact that the SNP Government and other stakeholder need to sort out the ferry situation as soon as possible to provide clarity for the people of Brodick ? my hon . friend be a real campaigner on this matter , which she have raise with I a number of time . she know that the SNP Government have waste over £ 5 billion of taxpayer ' s money on pet project , include ferry that do not sail . they have have a massive boost to their budget as a result of the UK Government ' s Budget , and their excuse really have run out . Kinneil Estate , which be home to a UNESCO world heritage landmark and where James Watt test his steam engine prototype , attract thousand of visitor to Bo ' ness . Kinneil Museum , which be operate by Falkirk council and support by the fantastic Friends of Kinneil , provide space to learn about local history date back to roman time . it be , however , threaten with closure , which risk damage local tourism and the preservation of local heritage . will the Leader of the House allocate Government time to debate the importance of local heritage centre ? what my hon . friend raise be particularly concern give that it relate to a UNESCO world heritage site . heritage be of course a devolved matter , but we take it very seriously indeed , and it would make an excellent topic for a debate . question be get even long . I say short question , please . I call Connor Rand . Duchenne muscular dystrophy be a severe progressive muscle - waste disease that affect around 2 , 500 people in the UK , include Felix from my constituency . Felix ' s mum , Lisa , have tell I about Givinostat , a promising new treatment that could be transformative . however , not all NHS trust be sign up to the early access programme for the drug , even though it be free . that need to change , so could we have a debate or a statement on Duchenne muscular dystrophy and how we can improve access to treatment for it ? as my hon . Friend say , that treatment be free to patient and the NHS under the early access programme , but whether local trust can cover the cost of administer it be a matter for they . I know that the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence aim to publish guidance on the use of Givinostat in the NHS shortly , and we will update the House as soon as possible . on 16 January , WHSmith in Stockton announce its closure , put at risk our town centre post office . I be lead a campaign with local Labour councillor to find an alternative location . do my right hon . friend agree that post office provide vital service for town such as Stockton , and will she consider a debate in Government time on this important issue ? post office play a vital role for our community , and my hon . friend be absolutely right to stand up and call for their service to continue in his constituency . he will know that there be such a debate this afternoon — he may wish to raise those issue then . last week , I receive letter from year 5 pupil at St Thomas Becket Catholic primary school in my constituency . they raise concern about deforestation and highlight the alarming decline of tropical rainforest by 50 % and the unacceptable use of child labour by the industry drive deforestation . will the Leader of the House allow time for a statement on what progress the Government have make on their pledge of £ 239 million of funding to halt and reverse deforestation in forest - rich nation , and will she join I in thank the pupil of St Thomas Becket school for raise that important issue ? I join my hon . friend in thank those student — year 5 pupil be often the tough of audience . she will know that the UK support a variety of programme aim at prevent deforestation , and we be a major contributor to Brazil ' s Amazon fund . I be sure that that would make a good topic for a debate . yesterday the Bank of Scotland announce the closure of its Alexandria branch in my constituency . Branch office be essential to ensure access to cash and face - to - face banking for the most vulnerable and for many small business in my constituency . do the Minister share my concern about the loss of such vital service and recognise the urgent need for the Government to roll out more banking hub , and will she raise with Government colleague the need for a banking hub in Alexandria and West Dunbartonshire ? banking hub be critical to community such as that of my hon . friend in West Dunbartonshire . the Government be commit to roll out our 350 banking hub — more than 100 be already open . I think that would be an extremely popular topic for a debate . this week , the YMCA release its annual report , reveal the devastating cut to youth service over the past 14 year . spending in Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire have be cut by more than 90 % since 2010 and funding be not equitable : in Stoke - on - Trent , spending per young person be 10 % less than in inner London . family in my constituency deserve well . will the Leader of the House make time to debate the need for adequate and equitable funding for youth service ? it be a source of national shame that youth funding decrease by three quarter under the previous Government — one of the deep cut make to any public service . there be no real strategy for young people , and we be see the consequence of that . the Government be determined to turn that around , and we will work with my hon . friend to do that in Stoke - on - Trent . I be delighted about the recent announcement at the creative industry growth summit of new funding for West Yorkshire . this funding will enable local leader to address the specific need of local creative business , which be a priority for Mayor Brabin , and it will benefit town such as Holmfirth , home to the Picturedrome . could we have a debate in Government time on what further support can be give to local creative and entertainment venue ? culture and Holmfirth go hand in hand . many of we of a certain age will remember " last of the Summer Wine " , film in Holmfirth . I recently go to Compo ' s chippy , and I can say that it do great fish and chip . West Yorkshire be one of the priority area for our creative industry sector plan , and we be work closely with the fantastic Mayor of West Yorkshire , Tracy Brabin , who be a real leader in this regard . this week , I meet a constituent , Bradley Price , who have recently take up a degree apprenticeship with Nuclear Transport Solutions . we talk about the excellent transferable skill he be gain and the great career option open to he . there be no doubt that high - quality apprenticeship like that can be the right route for so many school leaver , yet it seem from talk to pupil in Rossendale and Darwen that awareness of the range and quality of such opportunity be remarkably low . I welcome the announcement of a Backbench Business debate on apprenticeship , but would the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on raise awareness in school about apprenticeship ? I wish Bradley good luck with his degree apprenticeship . my hon . friend be absolutely right that degree apprenticeship offer a real career opportunity for many of our young people , and they be still not as widely know about as they should be through career advice in school . he raise a really important point , with which this government wholeheartedly agree . Wrexham be a thriving hub of business , and the continue investment in the Wrexham and Flintshire investment zone be very welcome indeed . company such as Wrexham Lager , Kellogg ' s and JCB , among other , be export from Wrexham around the globe . however , too many business have have to give up on export due to the huge increase in cost from red tape introduce under the previous Government . such thing be critical if we be to achieve the growth we want , so will the Leader of the House please consider provide parliamentary time to debate how we can ensure that these business get the support they need ? I be sure my hon . friend welcome — in fact , he have do — the much deserved announcement this week of an investment zone for his constituency of Wrexham . he be absolutely right that business face far too much red tape , especially because of the botched Brexit deal by the last government , and this Government be commit to reduce that . since last year , all parent in England who have experience the heartbreak of lose a pregnancy have be able to apply for a certificate that formally recognise their loss . an agreement be make in principle with the previous Secretary of State of Health to extend the scheme to Wales , but discussion be pause before the general election . would the Leader of the House consider write to the relevant Ministers to ask they to meet I to discuss how this scheme could be extend to Wales , so that baby loss certificate be make available without any further delay ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that really important topic . she be absolutely right that baby loss certificate in England have provide recognition and comfort to many family who have be bereave by baby loss . I think her call for the scheme to be extend to Wales be absolutely right , and I will make sure she get some contact with a Minister to discuss it far . save the good contribution to last , I call Sureena Brackenridge . in Wolverhampton North East in the past five year , we have lose bank from Wednesfield High Street and all banking facility in the Scotlands and three Tuns area . can the Leader of the House make time for a debate on bank hub to keep banking on our high street ? I think that be the fourth time banking have be raise with I today , which just go to show how vital have access to cash and banking hub be for community such as those in Wolverhampton . that be why this Government have commit to open 350 hub ; over 100 be already open . I think that would be an extremely popular topic for a debate . Bill present Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Yvette Cooper , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary David Lammy , Pat McFadden , Secretary Shabana Mahmood , Secretary Hilary Benn , Secretary Ian Murray , Secretary Bridget Phillipson , Secretary Jo Stevens and Dame Angela Eagle , present a Bill to make provision about border security ; to make provision about immigration and asylum ; to make provision about share custom datum and trailer registration datum ; to make provision about article for use in serious crime ; to make provision about serious crime prevention order ; to make provision about fee pay in connection with the recognition , comparability or assessment of qualification ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 3 February , and to be print ( Bill 173 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 173 - EN ) . Proportional Representation : General Elections I beg to move , that this House have consider proportional representation for general election . before I speak on the matter at hand , I note that today be the funeral of one of my party ' s and our country ' s great politician , John Prescott . I send my thought to his family and friend . they include some who would otherwise have be with we today ; equally , some of we here would have wish to be there . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant time in the Chamber for this crucial debate , and the many colleague from across the House , and from every nation and region in the UK , who co - sponsor or support the application . it be right that the House should provide time to consider proportional representation for general election to this place . just last month , the House vote in favour of pr for the first time ever , by give leave to bring in the ten - minute rule Bill on the subject move by the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , who I see in her place . that historic vote be an indication of the strength and breadth of feeling among member on both side of the House that our first - past - the - post electoral system be not work . it be desperately in need of an upgrade , and we need seriously to consider the alternative . the last time we do so be through the Jenkins commission in 1998 , when election produce result in which the number of seat more closely match the number of vote than they do now . my hope for today , and it be one I know many other share , be that member can explain why so many colleague and so much of the public at large have reach the conclusion that it be time to think again about our electoral system . in do so , I want to encourage the Government to be bold and to be honest about how unrepresentative british general election have become . I thank my hon . friend for his powerful opening speech . turnout at the general election in July last year drop to below 60 % , which mean that two in every five people do not participate . do my hon . friend agree that that show we need change , so that more people engage in our democratic system ? absolutely . the turnout and engagement of voter in general election should be a matter of concern for everybody in this place and in the country at large . the truth be that first past the post be fail on its own term . it be become less and less representative and produce more and more random result ; there be more outlier and more mp be elect on less than 30 % of their constituent who vote . in reality , some mps represent constituency in which perhaps 85 % of those they represent do not vote for they . these be the low figure since the beginning of universal suffrage . the number do not lie , and they can no long be ignore . the public know it , our party know it and we in this place know it . these grow failure of representative democracy — the widespread feeling that ordinary people do not have a fair say over who speak for they or how they be govern — be feed the record low level of trust in politic and faith in democracy , and that should worry all of we . the Government have a responsibility to face up to those problem and address they before the next general election , start with the launch of a national commission for electoral reform . the 1997 Government be brave enough to undertake this work at a time when confidence in the electoral and political system be much high and those system be less stressed than they be now . let I begin by look at last year ' s general election . Most people get neither the party they vote for into government nor the candidate they vote for as their local MP . labour win a historic majority , and like other Labour mps whose seat be perceive as safe in the live memory of all party member and probably all party , I travel around the country to work in many marginal constituency where we need to get vote to win . however , this speak to the failure not to the success of our system . the 2024 general election be a culmination of year of fall vote share for the win party , and we — the Labour party — win on just one third of the national vote . of course I always work extremely hard for my party to be in government , and I be delighted that almost 10 million people vote for we . however , 19 million people vote for other party , and we must admit that they be the vast majority of those who take part in the election . they do not get to influence the kind of Government the country have , and it can no long be acceptable to have a winner - take - all culture on the basis of a third of the country ' s vote . that erode our democracy . one of the argument of supporter of first - past - the - post election be that people be not really vote for a Government , but just for a local MP . let we take this at face value . only four out of 10 voter get the local MP they vote for at the last election , and six out of 10 do not get the MP they vote for . we have a system that ignore those six out of 10 people . we be now in an unprecedented situation where 554 mp — 85 % of we — be elect by less than 50 % of the voter who turn out to vote . I be one of the lucky few who receive over 50 % of the vote , so this debate and the change I be propose be not of personal benefit to I . some 266 mp — 41 % — be elect with less than 40 % of the vote . a few colleague — I be not sure any be in the Chamber — be even elect with less than 30 % of the vote . when most people ' s representative in Parliament do not reflect how they vote , it feed the all - too - pervasive sense that Westminster be some distant , unresponsive institution in which voter have no real voice . like all first - past - the - post election , 2024 be one in which some vote and area matter more than other . a system that force party to prioritise small group of vote in a handful of marginal seat also force they to neglect large part of the country — where to go , who to speak to both directly and through the medium , and the policy put forward . People in non - battleground seat , which make up the majority of seat at every first - past - the - post election , never have the resource spend on they that be spend on marginal seat . candidate and activist be direct away from those perceive safe seat to marginal , mean less contact in those seat . that be usually reflect in the turnout of safe seat compare with marginal seat , as voter be generally well aware of the relative importance of their constituency . it be hugely corrosive to our trust in politic , and we end up with most people and community up and down the country say that they feel " invisible to politician " , to use the word of the Brown Commission . People can tell when they be be ignore . they can also smell unfairness a mile away . first past the post mean that people ' s vote be not equal in value . sometimes , I fear that we in this place be use to that gross unfairness in election and have become numb to it . but for million of people , their stake in national politic be the vote that they get to cast in a general election every few year . when they see that a party win 2 million vote and get four mp , or a party win 4 million vote and get five mp , it be clear to they that the system be not fair . it drive voter either into the margin or away from vote at all . if we in Westminster be content to say , " that ' s just the way it be " , it be no wonder that hardly anyone trust politic . my hon . friend may be aware that an Electoral Commission poll from 2023 find that more people be dissatisfied with our democratic election system than be satisfied . do he think that look at change our current voting system would make more people feel satisfied ? I be come to that exact point shortly , and I thank my hon . friend for raise it . the 2024 general election be a stark illustration of the problem with our voting system , and it be important to understand that it be not a one - off . these problem have be get bad for decade , and that be set to continue if we keep the system as it be . we have go from 97 % of people vote for Labour or the conservative party in the 1950 , to just 58 % do so in 2024 — a record low . in the first - past - the - post system , that produce hugely volatile and erratic result — electoral chaos theory , as Professor Rob Ford have call it . back in the mid - 20th century , party need close to 50 % of the vote to win a majority of seat , but that threshold have be fall to new low for decade — 39 % in 1974 , 35 % in 2005 and , as I say , one third last year . there be every reason to think that this trend will continue . that a party , even an extreme one , can win a huge majority with less than a third of the vote be not just senseless but dangerous . if we do not address this now , I fear that election result will become even less representative . government and mp will be elect with low support than ever , and there will be increasingly chaotic and random result . that will drive trust and engagement still low . that be unsustainable , and I think the Government know it . labour ' s official policy on first past the post be set out in the final national policy forum document that the party produce in the previous Parliament , which set the policy platform for our manifesto . it state : " the flaw in the current voting system be contribute to the distrust and alienation we see in politic . " I agree , as do almost all the party on the Opposition Benches . we know that the public agree — two third want the flaw in the voting system to be address before the next general election , accord to Survation . the long - run british attitude survey find record majority support for change to pr , with those who trust politic least the most likely to support change . be they not the people we need to engage ? just this month , YouGov find that support for pr hit an all - time high , with support for first past the post at an all - time low . every single MP in Great Britain have be contact by constituent in recent day ask they to support pr in this debate . I have receive hundred of email , even though my name be on the debate . the Prime Minister have make it clear that restore trust in politic be a key priority , call the fight for trust " the battle that define our age " . if the Government be to win the battle , they must address our flawed voting system — one they know be drive distrust and alienation in politic , which mean that million of people ' s vote do not count , and which most people do not want to continue with . that be why I urge the Government to take this first step by establish a national commission for electoral reform , as recommend by the all - party parliamentary group for fair election , which I chair . the Government have say that there be no consensus on a new system , but that be exactly why there be a great opportunity to set up a process that begin to build consensus : a national commission to examine the issue that first past the post be cause , and to recommend a fair and democratic alternative . the hon . Gentleman be make a good case , though one that I fundamentally disagree with , as he will hear later . he have just outline his own Government ' s position on proportional representation . we have already have an answer on that , so where can he go now ? on 2 December 2024 , when ask by the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , the Deputy Prime Minister say that this Government would not set up a national commission and would not examine proportional representation any far . what do the hon . Gentleman propose to do to make the Government change their mind ? I have just say that the first step would be for the Government to set up a national commission . this debate be the first step for the APPG to try to persuade the Government to set up that national commission . we be on a journey . not everything the Government announce at the start of the Parliament be what they be still announce . change be possible . the commission could draw insight from the experience of devolved body and other democracy . it could allow citizen , as well as expert , to contribute to evaluate the option and find a way forward that would command public trust and confidence . none of this need distract from Government ' s core mission of deliver their manifesto priority , but it would demonstrate beyond doubt that they be serious about give a strong voice to million of people who feel increasingly exclude from british politic . when I be out knock on door in my constituency in last year ' s general election campaign , lot of people reminisce with I about a previous general election when the liberal candidate come just 378 tantalise vote short of the incumbent conservative . they speak very fondly of that candidate , which might not be surprising , except the election that they be recall be in 1983 — over four decade ago . I also remember speak to an elderly , lifelong Labour voter who be lend I his vote for the very first time because he have to do something different . when I thank he for place his trust in I , he tell I not to take too much from it , because his entire life he have never vote for a candidate who have win . I will always remember that conversation . as I walk away , I say , " well , we ' ll see about that . " until last July , for 74 year the constituency of Chelmsford , in its various shape and size over the year , have never be represent in Parliament by anyone other than a Conservative . in fact , it have be 100 year since Chelmsford be last represent by a Liberal — something I be extremely proud to have correct . it should not have to be this way . I hugely admire the tenacity of that erstwhile Labour voter who lend I his vote , hope against all the evidence of his lifetime that this time it might make a difference . no wonder turnout in election be often so painfully low . our antiquated first - past - the - post system can be incredibly demoralising , even for a committed political campaigner like myself . believe it or not , I do not like have to ask people on the doorstep to lend I their vote so that , together , we can game the system to get the change that we want . would it not well if people could cast their vote in a way that let they set out their preference ? they would know that all would not be lose for they if their first preference candidate do not win , as their vote could be transfer to someone else that they also would not mind see elect . the turnout in last year ' s general election , as have already be allude to , be 65 . 9 % in Chelmsford , slightly well than the national turnout , which be a pretty poor 59 . 7 % . in Manchester Rusholme , the turnout be just 40 % . but these be dizzy height compare with the turnout in local election . I appreciate that the hon . Lady be talk about a preferential voting system , rather than a proportional voting system . do she understand that there be quite a big difference between those two option , and obviously today ' s debate be about proportional representation ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , but I do not think those two thing be mutually exclusive . there be preferential system that can lead to proportional result . in fact , we see that in many place that use preferential system . in the election in May 2024 for the police , fire and crime commissioner in Essex , the turnout be barely 25 % . so why be people not vote ? surely part of the issue be simply that they do not believe that their vote count . they do not believe that they can make a difference . although I do not completely agree with that , I certainly agree that the first - past - the - post system make it hard . there be also other thing in our electoral system that make it hard , and I do not think that we should be talk about change our voting system without also talk about they . for example , the introduction of voter ID be supposedly design to enhance trust in our election , but the evidence suggest that there have be some other consequence . in the 2024 general election , 4 % of people who do not vote say that the voter ID requirement be the reason that they could not do so . additionally , 0 . 08 % of those who go to the poll be unable to cast their ballot because they do not have the correct ID . those may seem like small figure , but if we put they into rough number , rather than percentage , we can see that , with about 28 . 9 million people cast their vote , the number of people who show up who could not cast their vote because they do not have the correct ID be approximately — unless I have get my math wrong — 23 , 000 people . that be an incredibly high and quite shocking number . let we think about that for a moment — 23 , 000 people could not vote because we want to stop voter fraud . of course that might be a good idea if there be lot of voter fraud go on , but the Electoral Commission ' s own website say : " in the past five year , there be no evidence of large - scale electoral fraud . of the 1 , 462 case of allege electoral fraud report to police between 2019 and 2023 , 11 lead to conviction , and the police issue four caution . " talk about a sledgehammer to crack a nut . voter registration be another area where improvement be need . research show that as many as 8 million people across the UK be not register correctly at their current address . this affect key group such as young people , private renter and recent home mover who may not realise that they be miss from the register until it be too late . although the current system allow for late registration before election , this put unnecessary pressure on electoral service and risk leave some people unable to vote on polling day . we can see the impact that even small barrier to voting can have . imagine what would happen if we break down those barrier and get rid of they . we must recognise that barrier to participation , include voter ID , voter registration and the voting system itself , be dangerous to our democracy . I urge the Government to take the opportunity to fix this and thereby to strengthen democracy and democratic engagement in our country . I will be very brief in so as not to repeat the argument that have already be make in such a good style by hon . member across the House . I too wish to take this opportunity to put on record my support for electoral reform , to ensure that the composition of our representative well reflect the wish of voter and that voter can exercise more choice . the Labour party have a long and proud history of support the objective of proportionality and choice in other legislature across our United Kingdom and , of course , in other election . until recently , voter be able to offer a nuanced view , utilise the supplementary vote system in mayoral election . sadly , that level of choice be rescind by the last Conservative Government . as the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) point out , that be just one step take by the conservative party in its Elections Act 2022 , alongside the introduction of the need to show identification when voting , which have leave many people feel lock out of vote altogether . another change put forward by the previous Government in the Elections Act be in relation to postal vote , which , again , have disenfranchise many people . do my hon . friend believe that if we be to look at electoral reform , we should consider some of the consequence of the change that be make by the previous Government ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . as I be about to say , whether it be the inequity of allow the old person ' s bus pass to be use as ID but not the young person ' s bus pass , or leave out entirely the ability to use a veteran ' s ID card or a train driver ' s licence , the Act be largely unnecessary and introduce many retrograde measure design to restrict access to our democracy , rather than to encourage participation . I have a lot of respect for the hon . gentleman . he say that the Elections Act restrict people ' s ability to vote . can I therefore ask he what measure he would put in place to stop the restricting of genuine voter from vote when their vote be take away by fraud ? as have already be point out , the level of voter fraud in this country be minuscule — so that ' s okay then . it be not that it be okay , but we have introduce legislation that have essentially restrict many , many more people from vote than otherwise would have happen . will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . I be pleased that this Government have legislate to allow the use of the veteran ' s ID card , and I ask that they look at a wide range of suitable ID , include train driver licence , in any future review . preferably , though , we should return to the traditional british approach of not demand ID to have access to a vote . on the issue at hand , I want to recommend to colleague the outcome of the Jenkins Commission of 1998 , which design an elegant solution to the issue that our democracy face when it come to representation . jenkin , one of the great social reformer of this place to whom many of we still owe a great debt of gratitude , propose a hybrid system that keep many of the benefit of first past the post , such as the strong relationship that an MP have with a defined and manageable area , but with additional proportionality through the additional member system . Constituency mp would be elect through the alternative vote system to add choice into the system . version of that system be now in operation for election in the Scottish Parliament , the Welsh Senedd and the London Assembly , so this be not theoretical and voter understand it perfectly well . this be proof that a Labour Government can and do deliver much - need social reform and always have . although I do not support electoral reform in the sense of pure pr , I absolutely accept that politics be about priority . this Government have a huge task to do — three thing all at once , I believe , which be not something that many government have face before . we must stabilise our public finance , get the economy grow in a sustainable way , and rebuild our public service . that be a mammoth task , but it be what the public demand when they elect our party with a landslide last year . I can well understand that these issue take priority over time for electoral reform . I do not think that I could look my constituent in Exeter in the eye if I know that we be spend much time — and it would be much time — in this place discuss how to be elect , rather than address their immediate concern . as I have mention , there be much that we can do to make the current system more democratic and accessible , so I support the call of my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) for a commission to look into this issue and find a way forward . therefore , although I remain an electoral reformer , I also welcome the Government ' s current focus on support the development of a strong economy , grab the opportunity that be on offer for my region , and deliver job and investment in place such as Exeter , while also work and legislate hard to fix our road , end our homelessness and housing crisis , clean up our waterway and rebuild our health system . it be an honour to sit on the fair election all - party group , which be so well chair by the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . it be also an honour to take up this fight in this House with the Liberal Democrats for whom electoral reform have be a central tenet for decade . in order to be here today , I have to resign my commission in the Royal Air Force where I have , for 23 year , defend our country and our interest overseas . however , I come to recognise that the most crucial way to defend our democracy be to do so here while back proportional representation . throughout the 2024 general election campaign , resident across Tewkesbury constituency frequently express their frustration with an electoral system that be certain to condemn they to another five year of the same Conservative Member of Parliament whichever candidate they vote for . tewkesbury have be represent by my predecessor for 27 year , and it be the view of many resident that tewkesbury would never experience change because our broken electoral system would see this safe conservative seat win by the Conservatives at an eighth consecutive election . do not the hon . Gentleman ' s presence in this House demonstrate that the system do work , and can deliver change in individual seat ? no , for two reason : the Liberal Democrats defy the odd , but there be many other small party who be not adequately represent ; and , as I will come to later , 58 % of voter across the country do not get the MP they vote for , and that be true even in my constituency . at the general election , Tewkesbury do see change , but only through the come together of several unique circumstance , and despite first past the post . like my hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , I be loan the trust of Labour , Green and conservative supporter . the general election may have be win by Labour and return Liberal Democrats in record number , but let we not delude ourselves : the country vote tactically in record number for whoever would remove the catastrophic , nepotistic and morally bankrupt Conservative Government of 2019 . July ' s election bring the brief respite before frustration rise once again . this be the most disproportionate House of Commons in british history , with Labour mp in 66 % of seat but with the low vote share — some 34 % — of any win party since 1945 , and 58 % of UK voter do not get the MP they vote for . I have previously describe first past the post as " barely democratic " , and these figure vindicate I . public apathy towards politic be reflect in a steady decline in general election turnout since the 1950 , from over 80 % to less than 60 % in 2024 . if we want to arrest this decline , people must feel that their vote matter . the only way to ensure that the next election return a representative Parliament be to transition to a proportional representation electoral system . I have occasionally be challenge by those who say that proportional representation would increasingly return hung Parliaments , and would lead to bickering and chaos , rather than function government . this challenge falter when those people be present with the fact that the previous Government and their 80 - seat majority be elect through first past the post . never in the field of british politic be so little achieve by so many . they scramble from controversy to controversy , fight among themselves while undermine our institution and allow our public service to crumble . today , our friend in the United States be live with the inevitable result of their two - party system . far - right populist have seize the previously conservative republican party , neuter the medium and dismantle many institutional safeguard . we must recognise that we face the same threat , as our conservative party — the most successful election - win machine on earth — continue its lurch to the right and bring fringe opinion into the mainstream . it can happen here , and we must have a fair electoral system to mitigate that . liberal Democrats be elect in record number in 2024 on a pledge to deliver proportional representation . Labour member want proportional representation , and the public increasingly want proportional representation , so I say to the Government : let we come together and do something historic . let we put aside our individual and party political interest for the many . let we do the right thing . let we change our country for the well and deliver proportional representation . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate on something that be fundamental to fix the foundation of our country . it be worth repeat that public trust in our political system be in crisis . few than one in three Britons believe that the UK be a well - function democracy . as have be say , we should be clear that this have not happen overnight . it be a consequence and reflection of a political system that be outdate , break and in desperate need of reform , which have lead to a steady decline in general election voter turnout . the election in 2024 be the second time in history — and the second time since 2000 — that turnout fall below 60 % , and it have not be above 75 % since 1992 . even the Brexit referendum get only a 72 % turnout . that be not a great endorsement of the system we have . even more concerningly , astoundingly , in a recent survey , 25 % of people age 16 to 25 state a preference for a dictatorship in place of our current representative democracy , because they believe that the current system do not deliver and that their voice be not hear . my hon . friend be make a fantastic speech . I have long support reduce the voting age to 16 — a change for which there be cross - party support . do he agree that if we give young people a say by give they the vote , they will not have some of those view , because they will feel engaged and involve in the political process ? I absolutely agree and will come on to that later . young people believe that the system do not deliver , and that their voice be not hear . these statistic should be of concern to we all , regardless of political persuasion , and it be clear that the status quo have to go . of 43 country across Europe , 40 have proportional representation of some kind , include in Scandinavia , where voter turnout regularly exceed 80 % , a level we have not achieve since 1950 . three of these 43 country be find in the UK : Scotland , Northern Ireland and of course Wales have operate a form of pr since devolution in 1997 , and in Wales , for our next set of election next year , we will move to a full pr system , which I fully support and campaign for . the Welsh system show that rather than be something to be fear , pr enhance our democratic system . voter can head to the ballot box know that their choose party will receive fair representation , in accordance with how they perform . it be time for Westminster to follow suit . it can not take two more decade for the Commons to catch up . trust in politic and politician be at one of its low ebb ; the introduction of proportional representation be a crucial step in rebuild that relationship . I welcome the measure that the Labour Government be take to rebuild trust . they be make it easy than ever to register to vote ; embark on significant House of Lords reform ; introduce a devolution revolution ; and show clear intent to clean up politic for good . this be fundamentally an argument about fairness . everyone ' s vote should be equal , and should count . surely for the Government , with their huge commanding majority , now be the time to be bold and brave , and to introduce proportional representation . the first stage would be to establish a national commission for electoral reform , so that the Government can get on the front foot and show that they be serious about address our unrepresentative voting system and stem the rise of disengagement and distrust in politic . it would be an opportunity to bring the public , as well as expert , into a conversation about how voter can well be represent , and to propose a fair and equal voting system , fit for modern Britain , in which everyone ' s vote and voice count . as we have hear in this Chamber , trust in politic be very important for a function democracy , but sadly the data show that trust be collapse . at the last general election , we face the second low turnout in the last 100 year , with just six in 10 people vote . that tell we that far too many people do not think voting matter , whereas I hope we can all agree that every vote matter . that be why I pay tribute to the excellent lobbying group make vote matter for propose and promote this issue . it be so important . how can we have a situation where only six in 10 people vote ? we have the most unrepresentative Parliament in live memory . the govern party have about 34 % of the vote cast , but 63 % of the seat in this great House . what sort of system be that ? it be completely unrepresentative . my good party have 14 % of vote cast , yet we do not have even a mere 1 % of seat in the Chamber . as for the other small party , the Green party have just under 7 % of vote cast , but have about 0 . 5 % of the seat in the Chamber . that be so damaging to trust in democracy . we have 823 , 000 vote cast for every reform seat ; for the Labour party , it be a mere 23 , 000 vote for each seat . voter still come up to I and say , " how do this work ? " . People get confused , because as hon . member have say , we have one system for the general election and another in the devolved nation . why can we not have a single simple system that we know work , and that be use in so many democracy around the world — a variant of proportional representation ? not only do our system lead to misrepresentation when it come to seat in the House , but its quirk mean that we have no representation on any Select Committee , despite have 4 million vote — 14 % of the vote cast . trust in democracy collapse when something be as patently unfair as that . this issue be so important , and we know we can do well . it be marvellous that member from the Labour party recognise that . indeed , at the Labour conference a couple of year back , its member pass a motion to that effect . Fairness be vital . if we do not have it , we have complete misrepresentation of the view of the people on critical issue , such as immigration and net zero , because we end up with a uni - party approach . it can not be good for democracy if people feel that all their view can not be represent . they think , " what be the point of bother ? I will carry on with my life . " we all know that more engagement from many people of all age — young , medium and old — be vital for a functioning and true democracy . I thank the hon . member who secure this important debate . I have be debate on this subject outside the House for , unbelievably , nearly 40 year , so I have have some time to assemble my thought on it . during that time , I have often hear people argue for or against proportional representation or first past the post base on the immediate advantage for their political party . I urge against such an approach to question of democracy and electoral system . one benefit of engage in this debate for so long be that I have be able to see the political cycle change over time ; an electoral system that might benefit a party at one point may work to its disadvantage later . the party that get a massive boost in seat from first past the post in one election may get a disproportionate kicking from the electorate under another system . the volatility of the modern electorate make that particularly pertinent . the core bedrock of support for both major party be a far small group of voter than it ever use to be , and demographic and political change be accelerate that . no party — mine include — should think that the current coalition of voter that it have assemble be here to stay , and that it should design its preferred electoral system around maximise the number of seat that that coalition of voter can win . what be the hon . member ' s view on his Government ' s proposal to reduce the voting age to 16 , give that we be all elect by voter age 18 and above ? I think that be a different subject to the one we be debate . if the hon . Gentleman do not mind , I will proceed on the subject of proportional representation . we do not know how voter would behave if they be confront with a different voting system . we can not say that because Labour get 34 % of the vote in 2024 under first past the post , it would therefore have get 34 % if the 2024 election have be run under a proportional representation system . voter change their behaviour to fit the voting system . there might also be new party that would grow under a different voting system . with tactical voting in its current form , we do not know how many labour - identify voter back other party for tactical reason in particular seat — the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) mention voter who have speak to she about do so . we do not know how many supporter of other party vote Labour for tactical reason , or what the net impact of unwind those factor might be on each party . I thank my hon . friend for his long campaign on this important issue . all of we have probably knock on door and speak to voter who have say that they have never vote because their vote would not count . do he believe that if we have a different voting system , people would be able to see that every single vote at the ballot box make a big difference to who be elect on polling day ? do he share my concern on that ? I do share my hon . friend ' s viewpoint , and I will come to that later in my remark . we do not know how much turnout would increase in area where it be now depressed because the outcome under first past the post appear to be a foregone conclusion . my hon . friend anticipate the next thing I be go to say . the current fracturing of the party system , with five party get more than 5 % of the vote — the number be high in Scotland and Wales — be probably here to stay . that mean there be more marginal seat , more three or even four - cornered fight for marginal seat and more member of Parliament elect on relatively low vote share by historical standard . ironically , that improve the range of viable choice for voter in many seat , and their chance of influence the result in a meaningful way , because there be few safe seat . however , it be try to pour a multi - party system into an electoral system design for two party , so it inevitably lead to more and more disproportional result , where the relationship between vote share and number of seat completely break down . for instance , as have be mention , the liberal Democrats get 72 mp despite receive more than half a million few vote than Reform , which get only five mp . I do not blame the Liberal Democrats or my party for seek to maximise seat rather than vote — that be the game we be suppose to be play with our current system — but it be difficult to go out to the public and objectively defend such surreal disproportionality . it increase public cynicism about their ability to influence politic . my motivation for support a move to a more proportional voting system be therefore not that I think it will provide an immediate or long - term advantage to the party that I have dedicate my life to campaign for , and I hope that member of other party would not be motivate by assume that proportional representation will accrue immediate narrow party advantage at Labour ' s expense . on the contrary , as a social democrat , my approach to any critical question be base on the core principle of social justice , democracy and equality . that lead I to support a more proportional voting system , just as it lead I to egalitarian and redistributive answer to social and economic policy question . we should design an electoral system base not on whether it benefit we as individual politician or our own party at a specific moment , but on whether it deliver just and equitable outcome that can logically be defend . in particular , we should apply the philosopher John Rawls ' theory of justice and try to measure the impact of each electoral system on the most under - represent party and the most under - represent voter , and argue for a system that treat party and voter as fairly and equitably as possible and that give voter as equal influence as possible over who represent they and who govern the country . the hon . Gentleman be be generous with his time and have make some valid point , although I may not agree with all of they . do he believe that to ensure the electorate be fully represent , we need to go to the australian model of force all constituent to go to the ballot box ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the intervention . I have look at compulsory voting , which be advocate at one point by Lord Watson of Wyre Forest . I be open to the suggestion , but basically that be about force people to vote when we should be try to enthuse they to vote through both how we do politic and how the system work . all voter should have equal value wherever they live in the UK , but first past the post condemn million of voter to live in electoral desert where just one party dominate all Commons representation . there be no region or nation where that system reflect the diversity of the vote cast , and between different region and nation it can benefit different party . we need a system that send to this place a mix of mps from each region and nation who represent their political diversity and balance . first past the post privilege and make powerful a relatively small number of swing voter in a small number of marginal seat , while give little political power to the majority of voter in safe seat . that distort our political process . policy , campaign spending , where politician visit , where activist travel to , message and advertising be all focus on swing voter in marginal seat , while election in some safe seat can be quiet affair . when party be in opposition , first past the post make they narrower base . in recent Parliaments when Labour be down to a small parliamentary party , it often appear to be a sectional voice for big city and university town , which be unhealthy , even though we have million of vote but few mp in demographically different part of the country . now , the Conservative parliamentary party may appear to be dominate by rural interest as its vote in urban area deliver few mp . both situation be unhealthy . support for proportional representation be now the consensus position at a grassroots level in the Labour party : polling say that 83 % of grassroots member support it , and the vast majority of constituency Labour party member back it when our annual conference vote in favour of electoral reform . in fact , I think it be the topic on which the large number of local Labour party have ever submit motion . mixed Member system use in place such as Germany and New Zealand prove that the undoubted merit of the constituency system , such as have a voice and champion for a specific geographical area in Parliament and give voter great access to we as local representative , can be combine with a proportional element to produce stable and effective government — and , I would say , government who pursue the social democratic value that my party stand for . I hope that it will not be too long before the Labour Government align their stance on our voting system with our guide value of equality and democracy . I be a liberal Democrat , a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for fair election and a sponsor of the debate . it be a genuine delight to see hon . member on both side of the House talk about this issue , which be one of the found principle of my party . I believe firmly , though , that we will bring about the change that our country need only on a cross - party basis , which be why work on the APPG with the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , who open the debate , and the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) be a delight . I look forward to work with they to deliver the change that we need . the case for electoral reform be urgent and undeniable . first past the post be a system that no long function as a fair or effective mechanism for translate the will of the electorate into parliamentary representation . it be collapse under its own weight . the time have come to take the first step in address this failure with the establishment of a national commission for electoral reform . as colleague across the House have mention , the 2024 general election be the most distorted in british history : labour secure 63 % of the seat with just 34 % of the vote , while the Green party and Reform UK win almost 21 % of the vote between they and receive only nine seat . I will disagree with both those party often and vigorously on different issue , but I defend their right to be represent when a number of people vote for they . those result do not constitute fair representation ; they represent a systemic failure . the consequence of such an electoral mess be huge . the Electoral Reform Society have show that 58 % of those who vote in 2024 end up with an MP they do not vote for , and that 85 % of mp be elect with under 50 % of the vote , myself include . as other have mention , it now take 24 , 000 vote to elect a Labour MP but 824 , 000 vote to elect a Reform UK MP . broad trend confirm the grow inadequacy of first past the post . accord to the Institute for Public Policy Research , voter turnout have fall from 84 % in 1950 to below 60 % in 2024 and trust in politic be at an all - time low . a system that continue to distort electoral outcome so significantly will only worsen this crisis . we all recognise that trust be important in politic , and we be responsible for build that trust . one way in which we build trust be by be accountable , and the current system give we accountability to our constituent within the define area of our constituency . how would first past the post help build the accountability of a name person — a single MP — in that define area ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for intervene . I think her question be probably about how pr would deliver accountability , not how first past the post would deliver accountability . I very much agree that accountability and the constituency link be really important . I be glad that the debate have not nerde out excessively on which be our favourite form of pr , but there be many system operate in the different nation of the United Kingdom that deliver that constituency link . I very much agree that that be an important part of our democracy . pr provide a clear alternative to what we be currently do . it ensure that seat broadly match vote , that every voter have a meaningful say and that government represent the majority of the electorate . we already have proportional representation in the UK , just not here in Westminster . in Scotland ' s Parliament , 93 % of voter have at least one representative they vote for , while in Westminster that figure stand at just 42 % accord to the Electoral Reform Society . pr in different form be already use in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , as well as in the vast majority of democracy worldwide , so why not here ? evidence show that pr lead to high voter turnout , more representative government and more stable policymaking . for a long time , the question of electoral reform have be view as an abstract debate — indeed , with people argue over d ' Hondt versus single transferrable vote — rather than one that be integral to democratic legitimacy . it be neither sustainable nor responsible to continue govern under a system where a party can form a large majority on barely a third of the vote . it be reckless to maintain an electoral model that so consistently produce such wildly disproportionate group of mp and leave million of voter feel ignore . if these trend be allow to continue , it be not difficult to see how turnout will fall far , result will become even more distorted and political instability will grow . I be a Lib Dem — I out myself early — and I enjoy speak with and listen to voter . I be also a fan of a bar chart on my leaflet . be they accurate ? I be delighted to report that my bar chart have be measure and be accurate to the millimetre . rise — I would be delighted to give way on that subject . do the hon . Lady accept that one of the great advantage of move to a proportional voting system would be that there would be no need to put any bar chart on any leaflet — it would be highly misleading to do so — that there would be no " two - horse race " graphic or squeeze messaging , and everyone would be able to vote for the party they really want ? I could not have be more delighted to welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . I wonder if he have be listen in to the Hazel Grove constituency Liberal Democrat executive meeting . I agree with the he , though . when think about how to vote , I would much rather — as , I imagine , would a number of voter — talk about value , principle and policy , instead of a rather grim - look canvasser point earnestly at a bar chart , worry about who might get in if the vote split . pr would be well for our politic and well for our community . there be widespread and grow support for change , both in Parliament and across the country . a national commission for electoral reform would provide the necessary first step towards finally address the failure of first past the post — a step that must be take well before the next general election . to ignore the urgency of this issue would be to far undermine our democracy . government be not always know for do thing that they do not see as be in their good interest ; however , like a number of colleague across the House , I argue that proportional representation be in our whole country ' s interest , and that be why I urge the Government to act . the public be watch , and the demand for fair representation can not be ignore forever — our democracy depend on it . we have to get everybody in , so we be go to have a speak limit of five minute . I call Jas Athwal . although I do not want to upset the camaraderie go back and forth across the Chamber , this be debate , and this be democracy . I be sure we can all agree that no voting system be perfect ; we be choose between imperfect system . that be a fact . we must decide base on what work well for our country , and pr be not the panacea that everybody be talk about today . in 2011 , we put the question to the british people . they overwhelmingly reject the alternative vote system , choose to stick with first past the post . on Monday morning , I visit the year 10 citizenship class at St Peter ' s school in Bournemouth , where I speak with several young people , include Ozzie , who be only just bear at the time of the last vote . he ask I whether I agree that too many people feel their vote do not count , that too many young people feel disconnected from democracy , and that the continuation of first past the post will leave more people — particularly young people — disconnect from democracy . I thank the hon . member . the other thing I would like to say be that when we be over - reliant on statistic , it say something . I will come on to statistic as well , if I be allow . I have have the privilege of live in my constituency for half a century — more than 50 year . I be incredibly grateful for the opportunity that Ilford have give to I . a staunch conservative constituency have now become a staunch labour constituency , although , over the year , I have see many mp from both party . of course , that be how the democratic process work . like hon . member across the Chamber , I be devoted to my constituency . each and every day , I serve my neighbour , fight for investment in Ilford , represent their view and ensure that I speak up on the issue that matter most to all of they . only last week , in this Chamber , I raise the issue of democratic backsliding and human right in Pakistan , a subject that be incredibly important to many of my neighbour , who have friend and family in the region . I be accountable to the people of Ilford South , and I take my role and my relationship with my constituent seriously . under a pr voting system , the personal and local link that I so value with my constituent would be lose . a pr system would make it hard for local concern to be represent and address . it would take politician away from our community and hollow out the vital relationship between representative and constituent . the British Academy ' s analysis of close pr system suggest that under pr , politician be not beholden to their constituent — the tie be loosen and accountability be degrade . like the hon . Gentleman , I come from a local government background . do he agree that when vote for a councillor , as he be , constituent be more likely to vote for individual than party and to do so base on the effectiveness of that individual rather than just the party brand ? I think it be about be pragmatic in our response , be pragmatic with our resident , and make the right decision . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some headway , because I can see the clock tick . another key weakness of pr system be that they almost inevitably create coalition government . we know what happen there . no one vote for coalition government . instead , they be create by agreement hammer out in dark room , behind close door — they be Frankenstein Governments , which undermine the popular vote . when voter can not predict the consequence of their vote , coalition circumvent the will of the people , and when create an effective opposition become an impossibility , democracy fail . colleague should be careful what they wish for : they may get a well vote share and well representation , but they may not get well outcome , which be what be important to our constituent . it be our duty in this place to protect the democratic process . it be also our duty to effectively govern to the good of our ability , deliver the promise of our manifesto and create the change that our constituent vote for . pr system create unstable government with weak foundation and constant compromise . we be all too aware of the consequence of Government instability and the impact that can have on people ' s life — promise break , legislation delay , injustice prolong . look at our neighbour in Europe . in Belgium , the federal election in 2019 paralyse their political system , lead to more than 500 day of deliberation , compromise and bartering before they finally form a Government . it take almost two year of debate before a seven - party coalition be create — a coalition nobody vote for . the role of government be to change people ' s life , to legislate and to act . instead , pr system grind government to a halt . contrast that with the first 100 day of this government , though hon . member sit on the other side of the Chamber may not like the decision make . effective democratic system ensure accountability and enable delivery . on those two test , pr system fail . I associate myself with the comment of many other hon . member today , and thank the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) for introduce the debate . this debate come at a crucial time . we be in a world characterise by democratic decline and fall trust in institution . without public belief in make change through democratic debate , political pluralism and representation from people who listen to they , we have a society vulnerable to exploitation by populist division and tyranny . first past the post add to these risk . those who seek to distort our national conversation from outside , use money and influence to pursue their own agenda , can see dangle in front of they the huge prize of what be virtually absolute power if they can achieve the slim of margin to reach first place in a volatile system . a two - party system , which first past the post assume , be , in fact , long out of date . as other hon . member have say , the most recent UK general election be the most disproportionate on record . not only do 58 % of voter not receive an elect official of their choosing , but the election be one of the most disproportionate election to a primary chamber anywhere in the world . People be vote in historic number for party other than the Conservatives and Labour , represent different view across the political spectrum and bring in point of view from across our island ' s different nation , yet this Parliament do not come close to correctly reflect that shift . we have a Parliament that be highly misrepresentative of the public ' s preference and a Government with a huge majority but only 33 . 7 % of people ' s preference . that seem unbalanced and unrepresentative to I . I be not here to make argument that be only in my own self - interest . proportionality be not the goal here ; a well politic be . it be not just party , but minority group and the interest of group who might be ignore , face discrimination or be geographically spread out , and whose interest do not often get a fair look - in when a large majority in this House be elect by only swing voter in marginal constituency . like other member from different party , I be for many year a member of the London Assembly , elect under pr to scrutinise and hold to account a Mayor elect within a modify alternative vote system . I come here to this building to give evidence to the relevant all - party parliamentary group of the time in that capacity . I talk about how , as a London - wide member , work alongside constituency member , my role be often to listen to group who be not necessarily get the ear of their constituency Member or the Mayor , and who be try to highlight issue that be happen to people like they in pocket all around London . will the hon . member explain how constituency casework would be do ? as constituency mp , we all represent a define area of the population . be the hon . member suggest a two - tier system , where she will instead just sweep up from the constituency MP ? be she effectively ask for two tier of mps ? yes , exactly . I be describe the different kind of work that different kind of member in the additional member system can do and how that benefit equality and representation . I be not make a party political point at all . I think member from other party in the London Assembly can give example of way in which they have reach out and hear from people in different part of London who have bring issue to prominence in the Assembly . in the case of the Green party , we can talk about council estate resident , private renter , young people , disabled people and old people , and the way that bring their voice into the Assembly have a positive influence on the London Mayor ' s policy and make he a positive advocate for help to reduce the number of demolition , for rent control , for toilet on the London tube , and for youth service . that be very positive . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will press on , because I have one more point to make . that show a contrast with the current system for general election , where people believe that the national politic conversation do not necessarily involve they . we find that million of people around the country be never canvass or court on the doorstep at all . they be take for grant , and that be really poor . as the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley say , the Members for those seat be call to other part of the country , when they would prefer to be knock on door in their own . on solution , we urgently need an independent national commission on electoral reform . I want that do by the Government as soon as possible . the commission should look at how local council and other body can be elect , too . we have an opportunity , present by imminent local government reorganisation — the creation of combined authority and potentially very large council — to shift to a more proportional system , potentially use multi - member ward and the single transferable vote . that be the system use in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Ireland . it be incredibly simple for voter to cast their preference . the election count be extremely exciting — almost like the final stage of " strictly " — and it deliver remarkably proportional result . it deliver candidate base on consensus , not division . importantly , it deliver for many people : not only hardworke representative in the administration but people whose job it be to listen and represent they from opposition party . that could help with the potential remoteness of the uber council that be be talk about . that should be look at by the commission as well . I will end there . I want to start by put on record that I be a long - stand advocate of a more proportional electoral system for our general election . my belief be that any system to replace first past the post need to balance two core feature : to preserve the vital link between a Member of Parliament and a constituency ; and to consider a top - up mechanism , whereby additional seat be allocate in direct proportion to vote cast . no model be perfect . as my hon . friend the Member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) say , there be a lot of merit in the additional member system use in Holyrood . I do not want to focus my remark today on the intricacy of alternative system , or even the principled argument for reform in too much detail . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) and other have already make that case with conviction and I suspect that other will do so later . I want to focus on how we could build consensus for electoral reform , and what timeframe be both desirable and realistic . one thing we must avoid be the spectacle of a new Westminster Government win power and then legislate quickly to change to the system if they believe it to be in their self - interest . we see a version of that in the last Parliament . the Conservative Government have a minority of mps in London , but legislate through the Elections Act of 2022 to change the London mayoral system back to first past the post , a system that they believe would suit they well . for Westminster election , nothing would do more damage to trust than if something similar be to happen . any suggestion that the winner get to set the rule of the next contest would be dangerous . where do that lead we ? I be afraid , inevitably , it lead to a referendum . speak as someone who vote yes to AV in 2011 and remain in 2016 , it be fair to say that I make the case with some trepidation , but I believe it must be make . if we be to change an electoral system that have be in place for over 100 year , it would require a national conversation and a clear and direct mandate from the electorate . I do not believe there be a mandate for a referendum in this Parliament , but there be an opportunity to build consensus across multiple party to be ready for the next Parliament . that could be the define work of the independent commission which have be reference . the year 2031 be likely to be midway through the next Parliament . it would also be 20 year since everyone in the United Kingdom be last ask to endorse a change in the electoral system . that referendum be rush . the alternative vote system propose appear to be the first choice of nobody and , I be afraid for those of we who support it , its rejection by voter be emphatic . much have change in our politic since then , but all of we who support a fair system need to learn from 2011 and seek to build a case for change in a much more consider way . I believe we have the time — the time to build consensus on the good proportional system for Westminster ; time to make the case within each of our party that a referendum be the only way to earn a mandate for meaningful electoral reform ; and time to propose a date and make the case for it . it might seem distant today , but 2031 be a generation on from the last referendum and that strike I as a fair time to ask the question again . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . he be give a typically brilliant speech — we use to talk to each other in the boardroom of Clarion Housing Group , where we work together — and his idea of a referendum be interesting . if a referendum be hold and the result be 52 : 48 to keep the current system , would he expect the Liberal Democrats to keep ask that the question be put again and again and again ? that feel like more of a question for our in - office chat from a few year ago . I will not comment on the potential reaction of another party , but I will say that I would abide by all referendum result even though that would be three in three and a pretty bad track record for I . it be time to propose a date and stick to it . first past the post have endure for more than 100 year . if we be to convince a majority of the public that a more proportional system will well serve their interest in Westminster , as I think it will , six year be not so long to wait . despite my track record , I remain optimistic that , if we have a referendum , third time around I could finally be on the win side . I thank the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) and for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) and my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) for secure a debate on this important topic . I will endeavour not to repeat the remark that have be make so eloquently by other member , but I must start by also thank the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) for refer to the question that I ask the Deputy Prime Minister a few week ago : that be perhaps as close to fame as I will get in this Chamber . he be right to observe that the Deputy Prime Minister require persuasion on this point , although hopefully the eloquent and articulate contribution of member on both side of the House will help to achieve that and gain her support for the APPG ' s request for a national commission on electoral reform . for I , there be three key argument in favour of proportional representation . first , there be currently a clear gap between how people vote and the outcome — namely the Parliament that they get , and thus the Government — and they do not necessarily feel invest in the result . let I address the point make by the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) . the 2024 general election be , probably for the first time , quite a proportional one for the Liberal Democrats in its ratio of vote share to the number of mps we have . indeed , if I may be perfectly candid — at the risk of incur the wrath of my colleague — in part of the country where we have more proportional system , we do not always perform quite so well , so we be certainly not campaign for this change on the basis of self - interest . it have , in fact , be a very long - stand Liberal Democrat and , indeed , liberal commitment , and I will say more about that shortly . secondly , the current system be not engage people . as have already be mention , turnout be decline . in 2024 , a record low of 58 % vote for the two large party , Labour and Conservative , while one in three say that they have vote tactically for someone other than their preferred candidate or party member . indeed , when many voter be tell I on the doorstep that they would be vote tactically for I , I pledge to commit myself wholly , so that I would not have to ask they to do that again in the future , and that be partly why I be here today . my hon . friend speak of low turnout . I would be grateful for his opinion on whether a switch to an electoral system of proportional representation would be to the deficit of any particular party in the House , and whether that be reflect in their turnout at this debate . there be certainly a clear variation in the representation of party in the House for this debate . however , I agree with other colleague who have say that while we do not necessarily know how people will vote if they be give a more proportional voting system , that be all the more reason for we to have one , so that people can feel they can vote with their heart and not with their head or , indeed , on the basis of a bar chart of whatever level of accuracy — [ interruption . ] I should emphasise that mine be always spot on . thirdly , proportional representation would deliver less adversarial and more inclusive and discursive politic , which have the potential to improve policy , governance and tone — thing which many people find frustrating in our current system . party would no long be able to govern alone with as little as a third of the vote , and would have to do so with other . that be not a problem but a benefit of move to a proportional system , because government would represent a majority of voter and would have to work together to represent the various platform of the party concern . the United Kingdom be highly anomalous in retain first past the post . very few other european country do so . the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) make a point about coalition . I hope he be equally condemnatory of coalition that Labour have have with other party — for example , the coalition with the Liberal Democrats in the Scottish Parliament in the late 1990 , and , in Wales , the need to rely on minority support from either the Liberal Democrats or Plaid Cymru at various time . as for those who scaremonger or be worried about the stability of country with proportional representation , let we consider some example from Europe . the hon . member for Ilford South cite Belgium . well , Belgium have a well gdp per capita than we do , and , if I may defend a nation that be so often mock , the only real crime of the Belgians be prefer mayonnaise to ketchup on their chip , rather than their electoral system . let we consider Norway , a highly prosperous nation that have make wise decision such as create a sovereign wealth fund from its precious oil resource , something from which this country would have benefit have we do the same . Switzerland , which also have proportional representation and regular coalition government , have the most punctual railway in Europe , and 100 % of it be electrify compare to our derisory percentage somewhere in the 30 . Poland , a new democracy with 30 year of the fast economic growth in Europe , also have proportional representation and coalition government . I put it to the House that we have very little to fear , and a great deal to gain . as I say early , the Liberal Democrats and the liberal party have call for fair vote for a century , and we continue to lead the campaign for fundamental reform of the electoral system . I will go where my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove do not , and say that it be wrong to suggest that preferential and proportional system prevent individual accountability . the single transferable vote system be highly proportional and also , critically , retain voter ' ability to vote for individual candidate or not , if they choose . I agree with Conservative Members who have describe that as an important principle . reform be need to address the need for fair representation in politic , and to improve the engagement of member of the public . not to take action would far erode trust in politic and politician , and would increase the risk of people vote for more extreme option next time out of frustration with the current system . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) for open the debate so eloquently , and I be grateful for the many excellent contribution that we have hear from member on both side of the House . as a member of both the Labour Campaign for Electoral Reform and the all - party parliamentary group for fair election , I consider it a real privilege to be speak in this debate . back in 1996 I be a United Nations volunteer in Bosnia , which be hold its first election after the Dayton peace agreement ; I be there to make sure that those election be free and fair . it be very move to be involve in ensure that the postal ballot of people whose life have be so disrupt by ethnic cleansing be receive and be count . that underline for I the importance of give everyone the chance to vote , and to know that their vote count . it pain I that here we be , in Britain in 2025 , and those thing be not true . we have hear many other member talk about the disengagement with politic today , which I think be reflect in turnout — not everyone be vote — and we have see some of that far undermine by the last Conservative Government , who deny people vote through the introduction of voter ID . independent oversight be also important for free and fair election , yet the Electoral Commission have again be weaken . many aspect of our democracy have be undermine , with the result that people do not feel confident that their vote and their voice count . as we have hear , million have find themselves unrepresented in this Parliament , with six out of 10 voter end up with a local MP for whom they do not vote . we have hear today about the extent of tactical voting . I be elect in a marginal seat up in Shipley . we have be tell that across the country , one in three people vote tactically . like the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , I spend a great deal of time on the doorstep try to persuade people who would otherwise have vote Liberal Democrat , or indeed Green , that we need to join force , and ask they please to lend I their vote . while I be extremely grateful to the many voter who do indeed lend I their vote , and whom I now stand here and represent — and , of course , I would love it if they vote for I again at the next general election — I would prefer they to vote for their first preference , as , indeed , would they . that be true of marginal seat , but we have also hear today that in safe seat many people feel disenfranchised , conclude that it be not even worth vote for the party they would otherwise support because it will not make a difference . even those who be vote for the party that be win those safe seat feel that they be under - represent , because if there be a very large majority , many of those vote be still represent by only one person in this place . for all sort of reason , people do not feel that their vote count , and this be breed distrust in politic . just 12 % of people in this country trust political party . we have to reverse that . People must feel that their voice count , and it do not help when political party campaign only in marginal seat . I turn to the benefit of pr , for which I be a strong advocate . I see as a young politic student in Germany how pr lead to more stable government . in my work in health and social care , I see government elect under pr in the Netherlands and Germany pursue long - term strategic policy on key issue such as social care reform , on which there be much common ground between member from across the House . it be consensual and collaborative politic . we know that the public do not like the heckling and bray that be common in this place on a Wednesday lunchtime . some of our good debate be those in which we be in some agreement — for example , on climate and nature , or on violence against woman and girl . I hope that with a system of pr , we would have well politic , and that be why I support the establishment of a national commission for electoral reform . the Government could get on the front foot , show that they be serious about address our unrepresentative voting system , and stem the rise in disengagement and distrust in politic . we could bring the public with we and rebuild trust in our democracy . I thank the member who secure this debate . they have bring to the House a very important issue that I and many of my constituent care deeply about . the UK ' s history of electoral reform be one of slow , gradual change . there be much frustration now with our politic , and I be sure that soon it will lead to great demand for electoral reform . british history be full of we take the right and necessary step , only for people on the wrong side of history to decry they as the end of the world as we know it . example of that be give Catholics the vote in 1829 , make the ballot private in 1872 , and grant woman suffrage in 1928 . when we look upon the past , we laugh at how silly the country use to be . who be to say that the way we view the past be not the way future generation will view we ? as a young teenager in the February 1974 general election , I be — and continue to be — fill with frustration and a sense of unfairness by our electoral system . the Liberal party win 19 . 3 % of the vote — more than half the vote the Conservatives get — but it win only 14 seat , versus the Tories ' 297 . under proportional representation , the Liberals would have win 123 seat , the Labour party 236 and the Conservatives only 240 . this obvious unfairness in our system still drive my personal politic today . we need to fundamentally change our electoral system . it be undemocratic that under the UK ' s electoral system , not all vote count in the same way . first past the post feed public disillusionment in politic because it leave million of people feel that their vote be irrelevant , just like those in our past . although the injustice may not seem as obvious as the injustice of withhold the right to vote on the basis of faith , wealth or gender , the system essentially withhold the right to vote base on geographic location . with so many voter now so disillusioned with the first - past - the - post system , will the Minister commit to be on the right side of history , and deliver the change in our electoral system that the nation really need ? I thank those who secure this debate on a really important issue . I hope all of we here be commit to the fundamental principle that we should have a function , representative democracy ; and that election should reflect the will of the people , and endow this place with the democratic legitimacy to make law and form government that govern the country in the good interest of the people . principle be tough , but we have to stick to they . I be conscious , as I argue in favour of proportional representation and electoral reform , that have there be a different system in the election last year , the natural consequence would have be more member in the mould of the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , and for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . we have to take the rough with the smooth and accept that legitimacy be important , and that the will of the people should be reflect in the number of seat that party secure in this place . member have very ably make the point that the system simply do not reflect the will of the people . at our most recent general election , 58 % of people who vote end up with an MP they do not vote for . some 554 member of this House be elect with less than 50 % of the vote . the trajectory be that turnout be decline , and the legitimacy of this place will inevitably start to decline as well . decade ago , party use to need close to 50 % of the vote to win a majority ; last year , the Government secure 34 % of the vote . it be possible that there will be government in the future who secure even less of the popular vote . we have know that this system be fail for many , many year . it have be discuss historically a number of time — we have the Jenkins commission ; there be a royal commission in 1910 ; and there be a Speaker ' s Conference in 1917 . in fact , the Representation of the People Act 1918 be where we get close to reform . not only do it secure vote for woman , but the initial draft of the Bill legislate for an alternative vote in single - member constituency and pr in multi - Member constituency . of course , single - member constituency be relatively new ; for the majority of the history of this place , we have multi - Member constituency . as member can tell , I be look back through the history of how PR have advance , or not , in this place . I be very take with an argument make by Herbert Fisher , a liberal President of the Board of Education 100 year ago . he have a florid way of speak , but I think I would repeat his word : " I see before I and around I prosperous and popular hero of many a stricken electoral field , member who have enter into every home , subscribe to every fund , and by a thousand and one meritorious process have acquire what be know as the ' intimate touch ' with their constituency . it be very natural that such hon . member who have laboriously perfect themselves in the polite art of electoral intimacy should be unwilling to see any relaxation or change of system . " — [ Official Report , 13 May 1918 ; Vol . 106 , c . 66 . ] it be natural , when we have be put in this place by a system , to be reluctant to change it . we need to be bold and make the case for electoral reform , even though the system we want to replace be the one that get we here . sadly , a century on , we have make very little progress . I be glad that the debate be be hold today , and I endorse the argument make for a national commission . we be so behind other country in this respect . it have be point out that we be in the minority of democratic country in have a first - past - the - post system — 130 other democracy use pr or a mixed - member system . I hope that through this debate and the hard work of member who continually raise the issue and call for a commission , we can eventually put a proposal to the people of this country , so that they can ultimately make a decision . I be very take by the speech of my hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) , who talk constructively about how we get to that point . I hope that the decision will be take to adopt pr — the system that be , in the word of Churchill , when it come to address " constitutional injustice … incomparably the fair , the most scientific and , on the whole … in the public interest " — [ Official Report , 2 June 1931 ; Vol . 253 , c . 102 . ] how we vote and how we select who govern this country be , by nature , a topic of huge national significance , and one that be too often push to the sideline . I have be a member of the Liberal party , now the Liberal Democrats , since I be 17 . fight for a fair system of electoral representation be key to my political mooring and my party ' s fight for a fairer democracy for the british people . I be the mother of four child . I have one daughter . she be as clever as she be beautiful . last year , she produce a report on voting system across the world , include in Russia , South America , Africa , America , the European Union and here . her analysis show incontrovertibly that proportional system be much fair , include for woman , those who be disabled and those from an ethnic minority . this be not just about the bar chart or the figure ; it be about real fairness . in the most recent election , we see a government elect to power on the low vote share for over 20 year , with the low proportion of the electorate ' s support since 1918 . just 20 % of register voter cast their ballot for the Labour party . four out of five voter either vote for somebody else or do not vote at all . one of the so - call merit of the first - past - the - post system be that it be design to deliver a clean winner , but this be illusory . reach back through the annal of british electoral history , we see that 1931 be the last time a govern party secure over 50 % of the vote share . the tower majority secure under our system be deliver not on the basis of a representative vote , but through the quirk and idiocy of a flawed system . when first past the post do not deliver a tower majority , it deliver exactly the sort of instability that it be design to avoid . do the 2017 election produce a clear winner , lead to a strong and stable government ? the former Member for Maidenhead could answer that one for we . for too long , the party of red and blue have take the british people for grant . in last summer ' s general election , Labour and the Conservatives return their low combine vote share in the age of universal suffrage , yet their combine seat still dwarf those of all other party in this place . some 57 . 8 % of voter have to settle for an MP they do not vote for , include my constituent . that hardly seem right or fair . the evidence of a broken system be clear for all to see . what on earth have happen to true majority rule ? another argument in support of the first - past - the - post system relate to its simplicity . I agree that our democratic process should be simple , but what be simple than people be able to vote for the party that they believe in , rather than feel that they have to vote tactically ? the system be not fair , and it be not proportional . I and my colleague in my party will continue to fight hard to raise awareness about its unfairness , not because it be the politically expedient thing to do — as have be point out , we do rather well under first past the post at the last general election — but because it be the right thing to do . if anyone ' s argument against a fairer electoral system be that they might disagree with whom the british people vote for , I would ask they to consider why they make such an argument — because it be not out of service to the british people . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , and the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) and for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , for secure this debate . as member have mention , we meet thousand of voter face to face in the general election campaign , and by far the most depressing conversation I have be with the many people who have lose trust in our Government institution , our politician and our democratic process . I absolutely do not think the voter be to blame for that loss of trust , which be partly due to the last decade , in which a chaotic government lurch from crisis to crisis ; to corruption scandal ; and to the decline of local service . that drive a lot of people to opt out of the election , result in the poor turnout figure to which member have refer — the low for 20 year . I do not think that be because of apathy ; alienation from our political system be a fundamental threat to our democracy . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) that we should not for one minute think that electoral reform alone will solve this issue . the central task of this Government be to deliver rise living standard , rise wage and improve public service . that will help restore the electorate ' s faith in politic , and faith that the Government will deliver on thing that people care about . how do the hon . Gentleman think his party be do on those criterion ? we have record level of investment , record rise in wage and the fast - grow economy in Europe . the upgrade from the International Monetary Fund and the OECD speak for themselves . the issue that we be focus on today , fix our democratic plumbing , matter too . the Prime Minister say that restore trust in politic be the " battle that define our age " , and I believe that we can earn that trust by ensure that people feel heard and have a say in decision that affect their life . will the hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I will make a bit of progress . we need to ensure that the voice of the people matter . that be the foundation of my belief in electoral reform : if do right , with appropriate model for different level of government , it can help to rebuild faith in our democratic system so that we do not end up be more polarised , with more alienation , which lead to extreme politic and populism . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) that today be not the time to go into model , but I think we can retain the constituency link and expand choice , as in the australian model , which give local winner a degree of preference from a majority of the voter in their district through rank choice voting . an excellent analysis from Lewis Baston on Sam Freedman ' s website explain how the australian model could be appropriate for we . it be easily understand and encourage engagement across the spectrum , beyond the swing voter that otherwise become the predominant focus of election . although I support electoral reform for Westminster election , there be a straightforward policy change that the Government should consider immediately : restore the rank choice voting system for mayoral election . that system work perfectly well in London and other mayoralty , because it allow voter to express preference and ensure that winner have broad support . its removal be a regressive and self - interested step — it fail in London — by the previous Government , who actively try to reduce voter choice and participation . I hope the Government will consider restore that system in any future election Bill that be be discuss . finally , I will briefly address another threat to our democracy that the APPG for fair election be focus on : the role of foreign billionaire in distort political discourse , and the risk of overseas donation into our politic . there be still far too many loophole in our electoral financing rule , leave we vulnerable to foreign interference . I hope the Government will consider implement reform to address these serious issue in any future election Bill , because if we be serious about defend democracy , we need transparency and safeguard against those with deep pocket who seek to warp our democratic institution . our current system be fail to command public trust . that be the foundation of my belief in electoral reform . if we continue down this path , we risk lose something far great than individual election ; we risk lose people ' s faith in democracy itself . I be confident that our Government will deliver on their key mission , which will go a long way towards restore the public ' s trust and confidence , but our democratic plumbing matter too , and it be time for an upgrade . as the Member of Parliament for St Austell and Newquay , I represent a constituency that exemplify the rich diversity and complexity of political identity in Britain . I will use it as a geographical case study for today ' s debate . from the fishing community of Mevagissey and the suppose surfer ' paradise of Newquay , which be actually quite a multifaceted town , to the clay country village near St Austell , many of my constituent share a cornish identity but be also shape by a complex mix of cultural , social and economic factor . such diversity should be reflect in our politic , but that be often not the case under first past the post . the current electoral system obscure the complexity , oversimplify the intricate patchwork of overlap political identity , and deny many voter the choice to express they . too often , our electoral system function to maintain and reinforce rigid political boundary that do not always reflect the nuanced and diverse belief of our community , which entrench social division rather than foster the kind of constructive , consensus - build politic that we need in modern Britain , and which we in Cornwall be quite use to . may I put it to the hon . Gentleman that the opposite be the case ? our system require coalition to be form . political party be broad coalition in order to overcome that disadvantage and get over the electoral hurdle . in system that be proportional , party can secure electoral representation and be much more choosy about their ideological base , in the expectation that they will still get sufficient parliamentary representation . as a consequence , party make their coalition after an election , stitch up around a programme that nobody vote for . the right hon . Gentleman raise an interesting point about the nature of coalition building , which take place in both system . follow up on that point , do the hon . Gentleman agree that , in our current system , people vote for what can actually be very loose coalition ? our electoral system force we to have very large coalition in order to form a government , but voter do not know which part of those coalition they be go to get after an election . both the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) and the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) raise important point about the imperfection in all system , and about be mindful that coalition building be a feature of all system . in St Austell and Newquay , my constituent be as diverse in their perspective as they be in their daily life . many feel a deep - rooted connection to cornish culture , heritage and even nationhood . socially and economically , they navigate very different reality . some be tie to the rural economy , other be engage in tourism and trade , and many have livelihood shape by the seasonal nature of coastal life . other have strong tie to the industrial economy , which be see a much - need resurgence — in some way , that mean that have a Labour MP in the area be long overdue . although Cornwall be , in many way , a conservative part of Britain , we have a share belief in fairness , economic justice and the principle that hard work should be reward . these share value must be reflect in our system . the consensus building we do through this patchwork should be the by - product of a system rather than simply the result of the good will and share value we have in Cornwall . under the current system , many voter feel that their vote fail to express those nuance , which can lead to disengagement , disillusionment and a sense that the political system do not serve they . moreover , the political boundary foster by the first - past - the - post system make social integration more difficult , often deepen ignorance , polarisation and division . sadly , a winner - take - all system do not encourage dialogue or co - operation , but entrench an adversarial style of government in which short - term victory be prioritise over long - term solution . by contrast , a more proportionate system would ensure that political view be not distort or dilute in the same way . it would allow for great plurality , mean that every vote carry more weight , no matter where in the country it be cast . move to such a system would enhance our democracy and ensure that Parliament well represent the broad spectrum of view hold by the electorate . just because I deny the primacy of first past the post , it do not mean that I think change should come overnight , without serious discussion or without be the democratic will of the british people . the electoral reform we seek be a significant undertaking and must be do in a way that strengthen rather than undermine our democratic institution . if we truly believe that every vote matter and that politic must reflect the diversity of this country , we must be willing to have that serious conversation . the political identity and plurality of St Austell and Newquay deserve recognition in our electoral system . no matter their choose industry , cultural identity or economic status , my constituent should have confidence that their vote be represent and include in our democracy — one that acknowledge the full spectrum of view in our community . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) and all member of the all - party parliamentary group for fair election for secure this important debate . it have be an exciting few month for the cause of fair vote in Parliament , and I be pleased to see member of so many political party advocate proportional representation in today ' s debate . at the end of last year , I be delighted that a Bill I have introduce to this House , call for the establishment of proportional representation , be vote through to Second Reading . I thank every single member who back that Bill . it be the first time that Parliament vote in favour of pr , and I be determined that we will achieve that goal in this Parliament . but I must also express my disappointment . despite the Bill receive the House ' s express support on First Reading , it have not be give parliamentary time to allow it to progress through the legislative process . will the hon . Lady give way ? People across the country be feed up with first past the post . the 2024 election be the most disproportionate in history , with the Government win two third of the seat on one third of the vote — the second big majority of seat for any Government since the second world war on the low share of the vote ever record for a win party . I think we can all agree that such distorted result be not healthy for our democracy . will the hon . Lady give way ? it be no surprise that we be see record level of disillusionment with the political process , with citizen become increasingly disengage . this be reflect in the fact that turnout at the 2024 general election be the second low since 1918 , at just under 60 % . More than 40 % of register voter in the UK think so little of the political process that they do not think it worth express a preference for one candidate over another . trust in politic will not improve if the public keep get Parliaments that do not represent the balance of vote cast . this Parliament be the one that least represent how the country vote of any in history . will the hon . Lady now give way ? I will not give way . why ? there be no back - Bench speech from any Member of your party , and you will have your opportunity in a minute . very democratic of you . your Back Benchers could have speak in this debate . there be many urgent and pressing challenge face the UK today , but it be essential that the vast majority of its citizen actively support the mechanism by which decision be make to address they . increase level of disengagement threaten our ability to respond both to immediate challenge and to long - term issue . the Liberal Democrats believe , and have always believe , that a fair voting system be the essential bedrock of a function democracy . democracy have prove to be the most effective and endure of govern system because it rely on a broad base of support across the population . a faulty voting system that deliver a majority government on a minority vote undermine democracy and its ability to deliver effective government . in the face of grow worldwide threat to democratic government and institution , the UK urgently need to reassert the value of participative democracy as an essential component of peaceful and prosperous society . I be glad to know that support for electoral reform come not only from Liberal Democrat Members but from across the House . I be pleased that Labour Members , in particular , agree that we need proportional representation , after their conference vote overwhelmingly in favour of PR two year ago . more importantly , recent polling show that a majority of the british public be now in favour of scrap first past the post and move to proportional representation . I welcome the establishment and the work of the all - party parliamentary group for fair election , which launch last year with the support of more than 100 mp . its report , " free but not fair " , highlight many of the structural issue that have lead to the decline of public trust in politic and engagement with election . I thank everybody for their contribution . the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) be not in her place , but she make some important intervention . this issue may come under her remit as Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , so I hope she will consider give it more attention . I particularly thank my hon . friend the Members for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) , for Hazel Grove , for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) and for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) for their excellent contribution . I be particularly strike when my hon . friend the Member for Wokingham talk about how , in the past , we discriminate by wealth , gender and religion in select who could vote , whereas we now discriminate by geography . that be one of the key thing we would overcome by replace our voting system . the Liberal Democrats share the pain of the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) . in 2017 , we win 12 seat with 7 . 5 % of the vote ; in 2019 , we win 11 seat with 12 % of the vote ; and in 2024 , we win 72 seat with 12 . 2 % of the vote . just because , by some miracle of first past the post , we now have a proportion of seat that represent our proportion of vote , it do not dilute in any way our support for a more proportional voting system . I be glad we have the support of the hon . Gentleman and his Reform UK colleague . we must take urgent action to protect democratic process and institution in the UK from threat both here and abroad . we need to listen to the warning bell sound by the general election that the citizen we seek to serve , and who must abide by the law we pass , be become disenchant with the political process . if we want to continue to be a beacon of democracy across the world , we must ensure that it serve its purpose both in give a voice to the people and in deliver prosperity and stability . we can not do the latter if we fail at the former . first past the post be a broken and unfair system . last summer , the Labour party win a landslide election victory , secure 63 % of seat in the House of Commons in return for just 34 % of the vote . this system leave million of voice unheard and create a divisive , adversarial political climate , where collaboration be discourage and accountability be often sidestep . the Liberal Democrats have long champion proportional representation , advocate for a voting system where every vote truly count . we must modernise our electoral system , create a fair process to engage voter , listen to the need of constituent and rebuild trust in politic . win a vote in Parliament for my Bill create a historic precedent : for the first time , mp have back a proportional voting system in the Division Lobby . it would be an outrage be this Bill not give the opportunity to progress far through the House and to become law , so I urge the Minister to schedule an opportunity for the Bill to be read a second time , in Government time , and to offer Labour MPs a free vote on the Bill . I be grateful to member from all party for their thoughtful and interesting contribution to the debate . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for this important discussion and the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) for introduce the debate in the way that he do . for we as a nation , this be an important discussion to have . we may not recognise that we should be proud of the peaceful and democratic way that we govern ourselves , despite our various , often heated , disagreement , as hon . member might have see early in the debate . unlike the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , I be not afraid — on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? I will give way . I thank the shadow Minister for give way . it do at least show that he have some sense and knowledge of what democracy mean . I thank the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) for that wonderful intervention . member should know that she and I be very good friend . unlike the liberal Democrat spokesperson , I be not afraid to stand up for the courage of my conviction and for the argument that I will make . unlike member of the Liberal Democrat party , I be prepared to take intervention and have a genuine debate , may I interrupt this community lovef , and ask my hon . friend to reflect on the experience of Israel , where tiny religious party be perpetually in government , exercise disproportionate influence and influence policy in a way that be at variance with the wish of the majority ? my right hon . friend be correct that there be a vast and quite radical system that elect the israeli Government , where a number of extreme politician on both side of the aisle — on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? no , I will not . I will finish respond to my right hon . friend . I will make another intervention . well , I have not finish make my point yet and I intend to do so . the electoral system in Israel elect people from extreme wing , from both side of the aisle , who have a disproportionate impact on the policy and outcome of the israeli Government . on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? not at the moment , as I will make some progress . over the past several hundred year , our country have undergo myriad complex and contentious reform that have revolutionise our system of governance . those change have often be make in a piecemeal fashion over many century , from Simon de Montfort ' s Parliament of 1265 , in which representative from town and the shire be summon together to discuss matter of national concern , to the great Reform act of 1832 and 1867 , permit the expansion of suffrage , to the Representation of the People ( Equal Franchise ) Act 1928 , which extend the franchise to all person , male and female , over the age of 21 . those evolutionary change have allow we , as a country , to forgo frequent domestic upheaval and civil war , which be a feature of other less stable system . I know I be in a minority of one this afternoon — apart from the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) — but the conservative party have long champion first past the post as the fair and most effective way to elect representative — [ interruption . ] where be all the conservative representative ? I say to the hon . Lady , who intervene from a sedentary position , that my colleague in the Conservative parliamentary party be out in their constituency , campaign and stand up for their constituent , not focus on a debate about an outdated system that will never last . the conservative party have champion first past the post as the fair and most effective way to elect representative , ensure clear accountability , stable governance , and a direct link between elect official and their constituent . indeed , we continue to do that even after our historic and momentous defeat of 1997 and 2024 . the party have continue to support first past the post , as evidence by the submission to the Jenkins Commission in 1998 , because we believe the way to win election be to gain the trust of the public , not to gerrymander the system when thing get tough . voter have already show their preference for first past the post , as show by the decision make by 13 million people who vote against the proposal set out in the 2011 voting system referendum . I know this be not popular among the party in opposition , but I believe we should respect the result of referendum . on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? let I just finish this point . some 68 % of people vote no in that referendum , so the result should be respect for at least a generation , as the hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) say in his thoughtful contribution . in 2011 , the alternative vote be support by a majority of voter in a mere 10 of the 440 local counting area . the debate raise some pertinent question for other member . only seven month after they win a resounding and historical vote in a landslide victory under the first - past - the - post system , Labour mp suddenly want to do away with the system that have provide they with their victory , and small party want to gerrymander the system because they do not get as many seat as they want . perhaps that be because Labour Members be already struggle at have to work directly for the constituent that put they in their place , because they be suffer from the big and most profound instance of buyer ' s remorse since this Government take office . I say gently to the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , who outline the possibility of a two - tier system where member can pick and choose what they focus on for their constituent , member of this House elect under this system take on every issue for their constituent . my constituent in Hamble Valley have a direct link to I , and I will not pick and choose what issue I take up . member in this House generally do not do that ; we stand up for our constituent on all the issue that they think be important in this country and in their constituency . in a debate about our electoral system , the liberal Democrats have once again show that they be not worthy of have the word " democrat " in their name . they once again outline that they have an opposition to voter ID , which guarantee safe and fair voting system in this country and stop people from be able to take vote from people who be genuinely entitle to vote in this country , and they outline that they now want to gerrymander the system to get more vote themselves . I gently say to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson that she say that a lack of turnout mean the result of the election be not as valid as they should be . she be entitle to that opinion , which be perfectly reasonable , but her Bill on proportional representation pass with the vote of 62 mp in this House , out of a total electorate of 650 mp , by a majority of two . take her proposition , do that mean her Bill be less entitled to pass than other Bills because of the turnout of mps vote on that outdated proposition ? under proportional representation , direct accountability be often lose in the complexity of coalition and backroom deal . advocate of pr stress the need for the party share of the legislature to mirror the share of the popular vote , but that be the wrong test . it be more important to look at the share of the vote and the share of executive power . over time , pr lead to a highly disproportionate relationship between vote cast and the share of executive power , which be unhealthy for democracy . first past the post ensure the brutal and efficient removal of government when a rule administration lose popular support , and they be rightly boot out and replace with a new government facilitate often by a clear mandate from voter . on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? I will now . that be most generous of he . be the hon . Gentleman aware that almost all other major democratic nation across the world use pr ? do that not prove that far from be outdate , it be contemporary ? if the hon . Gentleman be seriously suggest to the House that just because other people do it , we should follow suit , then he need to go away and think about his policy proposition again . this country — [ interruption . ] let I finish the point . this country have elect more stable government than most european nation have under proportional representation . that be a proud and long - stand convention of this country and of this House of Commons . I suggest to member from across the House that that be why the conservative party believe and this House should believe in keep first past the post as we go forward in other general election . rise — rise — I be spoil for choice and I do not have much time leave . I will give way to the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) and then to the hon . member for Shipley . I wonder whether the hon . Gentleman remember how many Prime Ministers there be between the last election and the one before , and whether voter know what they be get at the start of 2019 . I think that be a relatively lazy argument about the internal machination of the conservative party and be not concerned with our electoral system . I give the hon . Lady the point that it be not a good time within my party , within this country and that period of office , but it concern the way party elect leader and not the electoral system for the public . in relation to proportional representation not allow party from different wing to be elect , if we look at an example from 2009 , in european election under the pr system , the British National party win two European Parliament seat with 6 % of the vote . in the rare case in which the BNP win local government seat , such as in Barking and Dagenham in 2006 , its support represent 35 % to 50 % of the popular vote in the win ward . first past the post , by contrast , act as a safeguard against extremism in ensure that only candidate with broad support can win . that help preserve the political stability and moderation that be hallmark of our parliamentary democracy . when coalition government be form , it become difficult for voter to hold any one party accountable for their decision . blame for unpopular policy can easily be shift between coalition partner , which , give how thing be go for they , I know might be appeal for Labour Members . however , that erode trust in politic , whereas first past the post provide clarity . voter know exactly which party be in charge and can hold it to account at the next election . it be also the case that under a party - list pr system , which be previously the European Parliament ' s system in Great Britain , there be no direct accountability , with representative dependent on a party patronage system . how many voter actually know the name of their European Parliament Members when we be in the European Union ? I would hazard that there be only one or two well know mep and one of they be still close by . I think the choice for we be clear , although I know that I be undoubtedly in the minority this afternoon . first past the post ensure strong and stable governance , clear accountability and an electoral system that be easily understand by the public . it prevent small , unrepresentative party from wield disproportionate influence and uphold the direct link between mps and their constituent . the british people have speak in favour of first past the post and we should respect that decision . member in other opposition party should learn and take it from we : we know that you can not keep ask the same question over and over and expect a different response . the first - past - the - post system have serve the UK well for generation . it deliver clear outcome , stable government and a direct link between voter and their representative . if we be to move to a pr regional - base system , that link would be lose and mps would be scramble and fight to take on their constituent ' casework . we can just imagine the mafioso - style turf war such a system would generate . to scrap those sensible and time - honour demarcation would be terrifically reckless and fundamentally unnecessary and would do our elector a disservice . we should not trade a proven system for one that prioritise theoretical fairness over practical effectiveness . the challenge we face as a country demand strong leadership , clear accountability and a system that work for the people . even though I do not like the result , the Labour Government win that mandate under the system we have . first past the post have provide that Government and we should stick to that , allow the british people to have a system they fundamentally understand and fundamentally believe in . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) in his wide - range comment talk about the vote that be hold on 3 December 2024 relate to the Elections ( Proportional Representation ) ten - minute rule motion . he mention rightly that the aye win by two vote , but in fact , the number of vote cast be 138 aye and 136 no . he mention that only 62 vote be cast and I be sure he would like to correct the record . that be a point of debate and not a point of order . I call the shadow Minister . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be perfectly willing to correct the record and apologise to the House . however , that be still a minority of the 50 % that would be require under the system that the Liberal Democrats be advocate . order . I now call the Minister . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) for open the debate and by congratulate the Backbench Business Committee and the key member on secure this debate . the UK ' s democratic system and institution be strong and be rightly hold the world over as a strong example of democracy . I know as someone who be bear in another country that the UK ' s democratic system have provide inspiration , even though as we have hear many hon . member believe more work need to be do in some area . in defence of our democratic system , I reiterate how much our system and our democracy be cherish . whichever side of the argument member be on , it be vital that we work tirelessly to protect our democracy , which face different kind of threat in the current climate . indeed , I hope we will all work together in that endeavour to make sure that we protect the integrity of our system , our institution and our precious democracy . how we select our representative in Parliament be of fundamental importance and member quite rightly have strong view . the choice of voting system be central to that concern , as we have hear in the many speech make today , and how vote be cast go to the heart of our democracy . I , for one , be incredibly proud to have be the first person of british - Bangladeshi heritage to get a democratic mandate in our system in 2010 . that democratic mandate must never be delegitimise , even if we believe that there should be a different system . whatever member ' argument , whichever side of the argument they be on , whichever system they believe we should adopt or whether they believe we should retain the current system , it be absolutely vital that we do not delegitimise the democratic mandate that this Government , or any other Government in the past , have be give to serve this country and the people who have vote for we . the Minister make a broader important point about the mandate that individual mp feel when they be elect to this place . do she agree that that individual mandate — our name be on the ballot paper — be strengthen under the first - past - the - post system ? do she also agree that that mean that our electorate can single out mp , which could not happen under a party - list system , in order to remove they ? the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about the importance of the constituency connection . hon . member have make important contribution about alternative system , outline their merit and limitation . each of those system have its pro and con , and that have be strongly and powerfully debate by many hon . member today . I respect those strongly hold view on electoral reform . I know that colleague will be disappoint , and I be sorry to be the bearer of bad news when there have be a general love - in during the debate across the party , bar some exception , but at this time the Government have no plan to change the voting system for election to the House of Commons . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I be get unlikely cheer ; I be not use to be cheer by Conservative Members . as have be point out , the first - past - the - post system , while not perfect , provide for a direct relationship between member of Parliament and their local constituency . a change would require a national conversation and referendum . the Government ' s focus and no . 1 priority , have win the general election and secure a mandate , be to kick - start our economy , create the growth that be desperately need , and improve living standard , our NHS and public service , to serve the people of our country . member have put their argument across eloquently , and I respect those argument . as other have point out , we have an opportunity to change the voting system in the 2011 referendum . unfortunately for those who be proponent of such a change , that referendum be lose . the process that underpin our election be of paramount importance and change can not be make lightly ; however , I stress that we be not averse to change to , and innovation in , our democracy . we must continue to monitor all aspect of our electoral system , and ensure that it run effectively and adapt to the modern challenge that we face as a democracy . as we set out in our manifesto , we be seek to make change , include our commitment to extend the franchise to 16 and 17 - year - old . we be continue to assess the voter identification policy in order to address any inconsistency . I be pleased that we be able to add veteran card to the list of accept document last year ; our veteran community will be able to use they to vote in polling station this May . we be continue to consider whether further improvement to policy can be make . I be conscious of the contribution of some hon . member about the exclusion of legitimate voter . it be crucial that we ensure that people be not disenfranchised , while ensure that there be not abuse of our system . as I mention , the Liberal Democrat party , in coalition with the conservative party , secure a referendum on AV in 2011 , with considerable cross - party support from Labour Members . the proposal be reject by 67 . 9 % of vote . while I recognise the strength of feeling , I have make the Government ' s position clear . hon . member ask whether the Government have any plan for a national commission on electoral reform . at present , we do — we do not . [ laughter . ] that be not a freudian slip . some hon . member ask about the London mayoral election and police and crime commissioner , follow the change in the Elections Act 2022 . the Government currently have no plan to change the voting system for those poll . like a number of policy , we will keep these matter under review . a number of hon . member suggest that the first - past - the - post system be contribute to a decrease in turnout , and point to the low turnout at the last election . it be on all of we to think carefully about the driver of low turnout , which will be a range of factor . we all have a responsibility , as elect representative , to work with our party and community to promote engagement , particularly among young people . we will work with colleague to promote that democratic engagement , and ensure that young citizen be active citizen from an early age . in order to allow my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley enough time to wind up the debate , I will address just one other point . my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) speak about foreign interference in relation to funding . foreign money have no place in UK politic , and it be vital that we protect our democracy from those who seek to interfere in UK election through illegitimate political donation . that be why we commit in our manifesto to strengthen the rule around donation to political party . we will work with member across the House to ensure that we protect the integrity of our democracy . I invite the Minister to join the APPG for fair election . she will see that there be a very clear correspondence between first past the post and the lack of engagement over time . I thank the hon . member for his invitation , and welcome he to send we information . he know that I can not be a member of the all - party group , but I recognise and commend its work . have be a member of and chair many all - party group during my 14 year in opposition , I recognise the importance of their work . I thank hon . member across the House for their important contribution to the debate , express strongly and deeply hold view about a really important subject : the future and nature of our democracy . whichever side of the argument we be on , it be vital that we always maintain our commitment to work together to protect our democracy , and that we work tirelessly to strengthen our democracy . I will be brief , because we have have a long and thorough debate . I thank everyone who take part in it , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) , who cut a lonely figure in oppose a change to the voting system . I thank he for his bravery in the face of such opposition ; it be a shame that we could not have have more member speak against change the voting system , as so many speak in favour . I thank the Minister for commit to work with the all - party parliamentary group for fair election , which I chair , and I will follow up on that . let I make just one substantive point , because I feel that there may be a lack of understanding about something . I be well aware that we have a referendum on the alternative vote system in 2011 . the alternative vote system , which be use to elect the Australian Parliament , be a preferential system , not a proportional system , so we have have a referendum on preferential representation but we have never have a referendum on proportional representation . I do not see why we need to wait a generation , as have be suggest . I certainly do not think that we need to have another referendum on a preferential system , but we need to consider , as I lay out in the debate , a commission to look at the failure in our electoral system , and whether we should move to a more proportional system . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider proportional representation for general election . local Post Offices I beg to move , that this House have consider the future of local Post Office service . I be grateful to everyone for attend this debate on a Thursday afternoon on post office and their vital role in all our community across the country . post office have long be at the heart of our community . they provide essential service , support local business and serve as vital socioeconomic lifeline , but in too many area across the country , include my constituency , we face uncertainty over the future of those post office and be already see the erosion of far too many . post office contribute an estimate £ 4 . 7 billion annually to the UK economy . accord to the Post Office , their presence generate an additional £ 3 billion in spending for the business that surround they . in a town like Wellington in my constituency , a post office could add around £ 1 million to the local economy . small business across the country rely on post office for banking , cash deposit and parcel service . nearly a third of small and medium - sized business use the post office at least once a week . of course , the benefit of post office be not just economic ; they remain a lifeline for many , particularly old and more vulnerable people , who rely on post office service to access their pension , send mail and parcel , pay bill , and stay connected . I hear from many of my constituent how much they value our local post office , and that those post office provide far more than just postal service . I congratulate the hon . member on bring this important debate . my constituent be serve by Crown post office in Brixton and on Lordship Lane in east Dulwich . both those town centre have effectively see the withdrawal of high - street bank . would he agree that the erosion of high - street banking service place an even great emphasis on the role of post office , and that the Government need to intervene to stop the further round of Crown post office closure if we be to see the banking hub commitment meet across the country ? the hon . member be absolutely right , and I will emphasise that point later , because the destiny of banking hub be wrap up with that of post office . post office be the nucleus of a town centre , and once they be go , it undermine the town centre . follow on from the intervention of the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , I represent Tiverton and Minehead , a very rural constituency . Dulverton be a classic example of what we be talk about . the farmer use to come down from Cutcombe market , after they have sell their cattle and sheep , and deposit their money in a bank or post office in Dulverton . we just about have a post office there , but no bank . do my hon . friend agree that post office and bank be two side of the same coin ? I agree with my hon . friend . I will comment on that aspect of banking later . I pay tribute to the friendly and hard - work staff in my local post office on Station Road and in Staplegrove , and in other post office throughout the constituency . the North Curry post office , with its amazing postmistress , contribute every year to the " Christmas in the Square " event for the village charity and have raise £ 1 , 500 . these be real community institution . their be in our village and community , where they offer a warm , friendly welcome and act as a community hub , be important to many people and must not be undervalue . the hon . Member make an excellent point , and I think the nub of his speech be that post office be not just a banking facility or just a post office ; they be a real community hub . I think about the one in my constituency that I have visit recently — in Ramsden Bellhouse , on Whitmore Way in Basildon or the brand new one on Billericay high street . that be exactly what they be : place where the entire community come together . the right hon . member be quite right . I know Billericay and its post office , and I certainly support his remark . post office be simply too important to be lose , and we have to ensure that they be not lose in town like Wellington and Taunton , and elsewhere across the country . too often , there be deep concern about the future of local post office . today ' s announcement about change to the Royal Mail universal service obligation add to that uncertainty , create further pressure on an already fragile network . it be disappointing to see that obligation weaken , with potential knock - on effect on the viability of post office . that make it even more important that post office continue to play a role all throughout the week , in sell stamp and provide postal service , even if delivery be be cut back . I thank the hon . gentleman for take my intervention and for the point that he be make . in response to a question I ask , the Government say that more than one in 10 post office service be not provide in what people would recognise as a post office . some service be provide out the back of a van for a few hour a week , but they be still hold up as complete post office service in the figure on post office and how many people access they . do he agree that we must provide complete post office service in all the community that need they ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman . there be a risk that the statistic be somewhat skewed by the fact that a parcel drop - off point or a van that visit occasionally may be consider post office . I thank the hon . gentleman for his generosity in give way to a number of member during his important speech . on the proposal to replace Crown post office , do he agree that franchised post office be no substitute ? in fact , that be a huge risk . whsmith , which often take on the franchise , announce this week that it be close 17 of its high street branch . the move to franchise could be one step away from the complete loss of post office facility . indeed . I think the hon . Member have read the next sentence of my speech , which be about the post office branch house in WHSmith on Fore Street in Taunton . that business be potentially up for sale , which pose risk . the loss of such post office would leave a huge gap across the country , particularly in county town like Taunton . in the course of his work , will the Minister get concrete assurance from WHSmith that post office in its store will be retain follow the sale ? it be important that the Government get assurance from WHSmith on that point . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . the distinction between Crown post office and franchise post office can not be draw heavily enough . in my constituency , we lose Crown post office in Newton Abbot and in Dawlish , and the one in Teignmouth — which I believe be the last in my constituency ; all the rest be franchise — be now under threat . do he agree that the franchise system can provide a useful service but be absolutely no substitute for the full Crown post office service , which must remain ? I agree . I be sure that the Government will say in due course that , whatever its exact business model , a viable post office be what matter , and there would be some truth in that , but a secure post office , establish for the long term , be what really matter . the worry we hear from across the House and the country be not without foundation . we have see worry closure across the country . notably , as have be mention , there be a recent consultation on the closure of 150 post office . the loss of branch mean that few community can access vital service . House of Commons datum show that the number of post office be rise overall , but in the south - west , which have lose more post office than any other region in England , it be fall . Wellington in my constituency lose its post office in 2019 , and we can see the damage cause by that loss . Wellington be not a small town ; it have 15 , 000 resident and be grow fast . its population have grow by a third over the past two decade accord to census datum , and around 1 , 500 new home have be build there in recent year . it also have a proud history as the home of Fox Brothers & Co , which have be manufacture the fine flannel and fabric for over 250 year and also own its own bank — the Fox bank on Fore Street be the last bank in the country to issue its own banknote . it be unacceptable for such a town to have no main post office . lose the post office in 2019 have be a real blow . one constituent tell I that he find it " totally baffle why Wellington Post Office be ever close " . it be particularly difficult for those without access to a car to visit the near alternative at Rockwell Green , a village several mile away . if they do , resident often find that the sub - post office be oversubscribed , with queue out the door . as a small village post office , it be only intend to provide for small number , and when it be open , parking have become a bit of a nightmare . I be very pleased to support the hon . Gentleman ' s application to the Backbench Business Committee for this debate . do he agree that Crown post office be one of the last bastion of the civil service in local community , as they be not centralised ? they provide good job in place like Wellington in his constituency , and they give support to community that often have an old population . they have an expertise that franchise simply can not provide . the hon . Lady make a very good point , and I be extremely grateful to she for help we to secure this debate . post office act as hub for a whole range of service , and they could arrange for a range of other public service , and often do , which be why a secure , proper post office be so important . as I say , the near post office to Wellington be some mile away and very difficult to access . as hon . member can imagine , there be great relief when Wellington resident be tell that they would be get a new hub open by an organisation call the Post Office , staff by staff work for the Post Office , and that there be to be a logo outside the building with " Post Office " write on it , but they be disappoint to find , when they go inside the building , that it be a banking hub that do not provide any post office service . frankly , people feel mislead and let down . will the Minister instruct the Post Office to review the case for grant Wellington post office the status of main post office ? I be convince from discussion with franchise holder that that would be enough to secure one for Wellington . as we can all see , in this case , there be an obvious and straightforward solution : we should allow banking hub to offer postal service . there be no fundamental reason why they can not . they already have post office till and post office system . they be run by postmaster and postmistress , and staff by post office staff . the one in Wellington even have two banking desk and space for a third desk , presumably await a post office counter . that would be a very good use of the remain space in a building with " Post Office " write above the door . perhaps most importantly , have speak to post office staff , I know that they would be very keen to offer such service in banking hub . the issue lie simply in such arrangement not have be include in the agreement on banking hub between the bank , which fund they , and the Post Office , which provide those service . it be not a hugely complex problem . with a bit of effort and ingenuity , which I be sure the Minister and the Government have , this could be overcome , and the system could be make hugely more efficient . there be 76 banking hub in the UK , and in this way we could significantly increase the provision of post office at very little cost . will the Minister ask his Department to develop incentive for banking hub to offer postal service , especially give that they all have the " Post Office " logo outside the door , even when they do not provide any postal service . to conclude , post office be vital hub in community throughout the country , particularly for those in need and at risk of exclusion . the loss of the post office in Wellington , such a significant market town , have really hit the town centre badly . I know hon . member will have their own example of the importance of their local post office to their community . I look forward to hear their speech , and maybe to intervene on they . it be vital to ensure that substantive town and community such as Wellington do not lose their post office altogether . in short , post office be too important to be leave to uncertainty . the Government must act now to safeguard these vital institution , ensure that town , such as Wellington and so many more , do not remain without essential service . I urge the Minister to take tangible step to secure the future of post office before more community be leave without they . rise — Order . I be impose an immediate six - minute time limit so that everyone can get in . I commend the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) on secure this important debate . I think that most member and most people be pro - post office . after all , post office be part of the fabric of our nation . many member of my age be bring up on Postman Pat and his black and white cat . it would not have be the same without Mrs Goggins at the local post office . the Leighton Buzzard post office first open its door at its current location near all Saints church back in 1887 . we all recognise that a lot have change in the last 137 year , and since Postman Pat hit our screen in the 1980 . I use to queue at the post office to get my car tax . email have transform how we communicate . tv licence sale have move online or to phone or direct debit . what have not change be the way that post office foster a sense of community pride . half of UK consumer say that their local post office create a sense of belong and community identity . an Association of Convenience Stores survey rank the post office third for have a positive impact on local community . post office also drive footfall to our high street because when someone go to the post office in the town centre , they often spend money elsewhere . more and more , post office support e - commerce , and they be important to small business , half of which use they at least once a month . increasingly , they be a vital mean of access cash . since 2015 , my constituency have lose 60 % of its bank branch . in recent month , two more high street bank , Lloyds and Halifax , have leave Leighton Buzzard town centre . in September , when Halifax announce its closure , it be explicit that it expect the post office down the road to take up the slack . whether that will be possible be a question I will turn to shortly . I be proud to stand on a Labour manifesto that commit we to strengthen the post office network . I welcome the Government ' s £ 37 million investment to support post office branch , along with the £ 20 million boost to sub - postmaster ' pay and the plan to publish a Green Paper seek public view on the future of the Post Office . this all come at a critical time . the 100 - plus - year - old Leighton Buzzard post office be a Crown post office . the desire of the Post Office to move to a fully franchise model be not new . it have be on the card for some time , but it be cause understandable concern for local people who deeply value the service that their post office provide , for all of the reason I have outline . I welcome the expression of interest in take on those Crown branch . although not all of those application will be viable , it be encourage that third - party operator be willing to step in , potentially integrate retail element to make these branch more financially sustainable . however , as my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) mention , the recent announcement by WHSmith , which host around 200 post office counter , have raise concern about whether third - party takeover truly be a long - term solution . I would be grateful for the Minister ' s view on that . I would also be keen for he to explore with the Post Office whether there be merit in treat Crown branch where it own the freehold of the building differently from those where it lease the premise . let I turn briefly to the related issue of postbox . some new development simply do not have they . that mean that someone who live in Bidwell West would have to go on a half - hour hike to post a letter . the law state that resident should be within 500 metre of a post box , but that be simply not happen . perhaps the Minister might raise that with the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , to ensure that housing development include post box as standard . after all , letter be vital for a thriving postal service . the Post Office be a national institution . it bring essential service to countless community , whether send a parcel , withdraw cash or top up an electricity meter . it support local business , high street and local identity . yes , it must change , but it must not wither . local people must enjoy a first - class service . in September 2021 , Plymstock post office close . it be part of the collateral damage of the closure by morrison of more than 80 newsagent . it be a legitimate business decision no doubt , but it highlight the issue of the post office franchise model . those business just disappear from the high street . what follow be a public petition , which I start . there be huge public disappointment , as old population be use to use cash . the postmistress of the next near post office want to retire , which leave just one bank with one cash machine . the next near cash machine be 10 or 15 minute ' walk away . importantly , this be the loss of an anchor at a shopping centre that be vital for the local community . work closely with the Post Office and local business , we seek to secure a new post office , but it be a challenge to make the franchise business model work . that will be even hard now with the employer increase national insurance contribution that business face . I raise this matter with the Minster today and he give I a helpful answer . he mention the increase in the sub - postmaster pay offer , but there remain the issue that we be not replace close post office on a like - for - like basis . Plymstock have a three - counter model , which the Post Office have offer to replace with a local franchise . it be offer just £ 15 , 000 to £ 18 , 000 a year to run that service within an exist or propose business . we have to add on to that rent , business rate , staff , and set - up and run cost , because , at the moment , there be no business on the Broadway , where the post office be locate , able to take on that service . there be also a challenge with the franchise model , in that it be often not possible to tag on additional service at the beginning that would make the business more profitable . for example , passport processing be not always offer at the start , and those extra service can often be the difference between a business model that will work and one that be unsustainable . ironically , on 22 May , the day the general election be call , I meet again with the Post Office — some three year later — to discuss the issue . the Post Office raise with I the statistic on what be need . it think that the use of a post office in the area would increase over time , but it would not take into account the fact that a neighbouring postmistress be seek to retire . therefore , the datum show that the area do not need anything more than a post office local . all it take be a tiny bit of horizon scan to realise that there would be that need and that demand shortly . we get stick in a Catch - 22 situation . the Post Office reassure I that it have further people interested in run the post office , but , nearly one year later , nothing have come to fruition . the fight continue . as have be mention by other hon . member , there be the option of banking hub . the work of the Conservative Government to trailblaze this modern solution for community have help remarkably , and I be sure that we will hear lot about that this afternoon . to reinforce the point that the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) make , there be a real concern that community that be look to have a banking hub do not have a function post office in the way that we would understand it . do my hon . friend agree with I that the arrival of banking hub be actually the opportunity to put a post office back into those community as well ? I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . I think that all of we in this Chamber will agree that have a post office within these banking hub be vital . we have see 76 hub open across the country in the last few year . clearly , there be an appetite and a need for they , but it do not make sense to the public , as have be allude to , that they can pitch up to these place with a post office sign outside , but they can not even buy a stamp inside . I do hope that that can be rectify . the other challenge be that an area can not have a banking hub while a bank be still present . perhaps that be the silver lining to yesterday ' s announcement that the Lloyds bank in the same location , on Plymstock Broadway , be close in November . that will be a massive hit , as it have the only cash machine for the entire community . however , as I have be say to my constituent , perhaps the silver lining be that we will see more banking available and , if the Government hee our call today , that future post office as well . perhaps we have to circumvent the system to get what we want . it would mean that we can now explore a banking hub and retain those banking service . clearly , there be a long way to go . I be sure that there be member in the Chamber today who have secure banking hub . I be tell that it take a big fight , but most of we be here because we be campaigner . within an hour of the announcement of the closure of the Lloyds bank , we go out to the press , and we will do all we can to get a banking hub . however , I want to be able to reassure my constituent that this will solve the lack of a post office as well , so I do hope that we can see that policy change . there be a long way to go : we have to secure a venue , an operator and that policy change to see our post office service return . since I share the idea yesterday , there have be huge local interest . People be really get the idea of a banking hub — they be on board ; it be what the community want . I have have two conversation already with potential operator , one of whom I know run a service in a neighbouring constituency and be do a really good job there . so we have the interest ; we have businessman and woman who want to do this . they have not be able to deliver it on the franchise model , but it seem that they can deliver it on the banking hub model . we want to see this idea deliver , because even the shopping centre know that , in order to get the footfall for all the other local business , have a bank and a post office for access to cash be vital . even the local library need that cash access , and if it be not available , there be go to be a problem . local people need these vital service and amenity , and that be why we need to secure a banking hub . I say to my constituent , particularly those in Plymstock , that they have my absolute commitment to fight for this . I would add that we have some fabulous small community post office in our village ; it be not all a bad news story . the Newton Ferrers shop , for example , have a fabulous post office counter , and attempt be make right across our constituency to deliver these service for our constituent . however , where there be a problem like the one we be face today , with close bank and close main branch , we do need to step up and take action . to close , I will ask a few question of the Minister . I have highlight the reality of the current post office offer and , as I say , it be not all bad . he have kindly say that I can share some detail about my constituency with he , which I will do , but I think it would be good to get the answer on the record in the Chamber . do the Minister accept that downgrade a service from a main branch to a franchised local service hinder the replacement of post office service ? will he explore the fact that the current Post Office dataset do not allow for what will happen in the future ? if a retirement be come down the road , we should be able to business - plan around that and at the moment we can not . can the Minister reassure the House that he remain committed to deliver banking hub , and say whether will they will incorporate postal facility so that we can deliver for our constituent ? I be grateful to the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) for secure today ' s debate . this be an important issue for constituency across the UK , as have be highlight by contribution from all part of the House , but it be a particular concern to constituency like South East Cornwall , which face the potential closure of our Liskeard post office . if that be to go ahead , it would not just be the loss of a shop ; it would be the loss of a vital service at the heart of our community . as the daughter of a postman , I know just what a hard and important job it be that they do . for many people in rural area like mine , the post office be more than a place to send letter ; with the loss of high street bank leave only one provider , the post office have become a financial lifeline , ensure that resident — especially old resident or those without online banking — and small business can access cash and essential service without have to travel for mile . without a clear alternative in place , that represent a real challenge . for many in rural area like mine , reach the next near branch be simply not practical . if these closure continue , we must ensure that further banking hub be establish so that rural community be not leave behind . drive growth be a key aim of this Government and I welcome the £ 28 million investment in Cornwall outline in the Chancellor ' s statement yesterday . long - term growth can not happen without the basic service that underpin our local economy , and Labour be elect across the UK in rural , coastal and urban area alike because people want practical solution after 14 year of decline . they want to ensure that community be not cut off from essential service , and I look forward to work with our Government to achieve that . my goal be to make the life of local resident in South East Cornwall easy and more prosperous . that mean protect local service , ensure accountability and deliver real opportunity for growth in town like Liskeard . I urge the Government to ensure that rural community be not leave strand and to guarantee access to essential banking and post office service , as I be sure they will . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) on take the initiative to secure time for this debate and on the way in which he open it . we be all familiar with the old maxim , " if it ain ' t break , don ' t fix it . " I have lose count of the number of post office debate I have take part in over the year , and it seem to I that as far as post office be concern , the maxim that have govern the thinking of government of all colour be , " if it ain ' t break , keep reform it until it be . " the fundamental problem be that there have be an incoherence of approach within Departments . on the one hand , we have hear — I suspect we may hear similar thing from the Minister today — minister stand at the Dispatch Box say that the post office be a brilliant institution and it can be the front office or front desk for Government service in community across the country . the next day , we will have another Minister stand at the Dispatch Box tell we that access to Government service will become digital by default . unless we decide exactly what role we expect our post office to perform in our community , we can not be surprised when they fail to thrive and then wither in the way that they be do . it be more than 20 year now since the Department for Work and Pensions think it could save money by drive people away from get pension and other benefit from their local post office . doubtless that be a saving for the Department for Work and Pensions , but it have just mean that the Department for Business and Trade or whatever we call it these day have have to put more money in through Government subsidy . I hesitate to predict the future in politic at all these day , but one day , when we have finally turn the key to lock the last post office in the country , some bright spark in Downing Street somewhere will come up with a policy paper say that we should have a hub in every community where people can access Government service and meet their postal need , their banking need and all the rest of it , and in that way we will end up reinvent what we have reform to the point of destruction . the Post Office and how it interact with the sub - postmaster have not always help in that respect , include the innovation that it have bring , such as the pick - up and drop - off initiative . in my constituency , it be not the sub - post office that be give the contract to do the pick - up and drop - off point . if the Post Office at the heart be not able to support sub - postmaster at the frontline , we frankly can not be surprised if they start to fail . in particular , I want to talk about the Post Office ' s approach to the closure of Crown branch . we see that in my constituency , where the last Crown post office in Kirkwall be list for closure . the way that have be do by the Post Office have be nothing short of a disgrace . it have be totally lack in respect for its employee and the community that the post office be there to serve . at a time when we might have hope that the Post Office would want to demonstrate a change of culture — for reason we have debate often enough — we see it still behave in this way in my community . it make I think that all the fine word about change culture at the top of the Post Office be simply meaningless weasel word . I have see similar situation before . we lose the Crown post office in Lerwick in Shetland a few year ago . it be take out and fold into a local newsagent service . for all the promise give about maintain service , in fact the community be leave with a much inferior service at the end of the day , despite the good effort of the newsagent who get the contract . if we be to see these change in Kirkwall , we need to know first of all that the same range of service will still be available as there be from a Crown post office . that include vehicle licensing , currency exchange and passport checking — all those thing should still be available . just as important as the range of service be the question of the physical infrastructure . People want a stand - alone post office to offer a level of service of the sort they get with a Crown post office , especially when we be encourage banking into they . that be a highly personal service for many people . they do not want to be do that next to somebody buy a tin of bean and their weekly paper . the size and availability of any post office that be to replace the one that the Post Office want to close in Kirkwall be critical . we do not want people queue around the block at Christmas when the post office be at its busy , stand in the rain , sleet and snow to get their postage do . the size , the range of service and the quality of service have to be at the heart of anything that come from the Post Office by way of revision . that be the basis on which we in my community will be judge any proposal that it come forward with . I be pleased to support the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) in secure the debate . it be not the first time I help he as , in a funny quirk of fate , I house sit for he more than 20 year ago — I think it be 22 year ago , but he be welcome to correct the record if I have get the date wrong . I thank my London Bridge post office manager Priya and her dedicated team , include Clive and the Communication Workers Union member whom I be proud to serve . they in turn support and serve the London Bridge and Borough High Street community in extremely busy circumstance with massive footfall . that be why there be so much concern about the branch , as demonstrate by the petition to save the London Bridge post office start by London Bridge and West Bermondsey councillor Emily Hickson , Sam Dalton and Sunil Chopra . hundred of people have already sign that petition , which be on change . org , should anyone want to add their signature . I go to the branch two week ago to meet the team and see for myself how busy and love it be . my constituent Mary — a lovely old lady — be there pay her rent at the time , but it be not just old lady use post office . this post office demonstrate how a diverse range of post office be affect across the country as this branch be hugely busy and serve a massive and vibrant business community at Borough Market and around London Bridge . of course , it also have London ' s fourth - busy train station right on its doorstep , provide commuter customer on Borough High Street . I visit specifically because of the question mark over the branch ' s status . I thank the Post Office for answer some of my question and for join I on that visit , but it be disappointing that the branch be in that position , not least because we have a new ministerial team , Government Ministers have state that there will be £ 50 million of additional funding and there remain a commitment from the Government to ensure that every community have access to a post office branch , which be incredibly welcome . I be proud to have stand and win last year on a manifesto that say Labour would look for way to strengthen the network in consultation with sub - postmaster , trade union and customer . I be glad that the Government formally recognise that " the UK - wide Post Office branch network be an essential part of the UK ' s economic infrastructure , support high street " and " business " . that be incredibly refreshing after year of mismanagement and mixed message from mixed Ministers from two different party since 2010 . it be really useful to see the Minister in his place . we may disagree on one issue during the six nation , but he have be a massive champion of post office and have say on the record that the Post Office should do more when it come to provide banking service . he have be a doughty champion for the Co - operative party and a champion of post office have a broad banking and financial footfall , whether that be through a credit union or banking . I hope to hear more from he on those issue . like postie , he now have to deliver in office as a Minister . [ hon . member : " oh . " ] thank you . I hope that we will hear when the Green Paper will be publish . I think the aim be by the end of July . I hope that it will cover Link and the access to cash campaign , which be already part of that discussion , and that there will be space to talk about the future of business rate for post office and whether there could be a community interest exemption . I want to flag up a couple of concern about how the London Bridge branch have be handle by the Post Office . it have an incredibly small team of less than 10 full - time equivalent , and they be incredibly busy , but they have meet every target set by the Post Office , include a currency transfer increase last year of more than 20 % — we be talk about million of pound there . the team have take on additional service where possible , but those service they have lose have be the responsibility of the Post Office nationally and not the local branch . sadly , they feel blame for national Post Office failure . rent be also not the local branch ' s responsibility ; it do not determine the rent that it pay for its prime Borough High Street location . it be disappointing that the Post Office do not seek a rent reduction in 2020 . I see how , during the covid crisis , rent for commercial and residential premise fall for the first time in the 20 year I have live in the borough . however , the Post Office fail to negotiate or seek a reduction . that be not the responsibility of the individual staff , who feel they be now be hold culpable for a failure that sit elsewhere . it be hard to imagine an equivalent site locally that would be cheap . if the branch move away from its high street location , it would lose business and commuter footfall , which could reduce turnover . those make decision need to be mindful of that . as be mention by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , there be a lack of respect show to customer and the workforce in the handling of this . specifically on this site , the Post Office website say that an alternative provider be available on Blackfriars Road . well , the Post Office shut that post office two year ago this month . it be suppose to reopen — the Post Office say it have bidder for it last summer — but , since my visit two week ago , the Post Office have now state that it will not reopen the Blackfriars Road site at all , which be a massive disappointment for many in SE1 and the local area . the failure to communicate that — again , not a local responsibility — show a lack of respect . the Post Office be suppose to follow principle of community engagement in how it handle these issue , but that have not be the case in Blackfriars . it must not happen again . for people worried about that specific site , I want to flag up that there be a lot of interest in run it with an alternative provider . however , that must not come at a loss of service or a loss of right for the workforce that the state pick up down the line , and all cost must be take into account . when more be know — we think that will be in April — I will organise a public meeting with local representative of the Post Office , the CWU and other , which I will advertise as soon as I can for everyone worry about this great community asset . I congratulate the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) on secure this Backbench Business debate . I also thank Nik Frost and Emily Pidgeon from my office for do the research for this and other speech that I have make in recent day . we all know that post office be critically important asset to our community . I know that your own post office in Romsey be under threat as a main hub , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I know you do not have the ability to voice that , so I shall do so on your behalf . I be lucky enough to represent seven post office in South West Hertfordshire . in my first term as a Member of Parliament , Chorleywood port office be close , have shut in 2019 — not for reason decide by headquarter ; there be a local issue — and it take several year before that post office be bring back online . I thank the retailer Lord ' s for incorporate the post office into its retail area to ensure that my community could continue to access the excellent service offer by the Post Office . during the global pandemic , we see how critical community asset and community spirit be to the health and wellbeing of our resident . they be the unsung hero of our community . Most post office staff will see their regular on a frequent basis , and will quickly identify it if they have not be see or do not look well ; while not professional like pharmacist , optician or GPs , they be a set of eye and ear on how their customer be do . through various announcement , recently and over the past few year , we have see the demise of high street bank . I be a former furniture retailer , and it still make I sad that our high street be not what they once be . post office be one of the few beacon leave on high street up and down our country ; while there be an absolute draw to online retail , and I be a free marketeer , I know that if we do not continue to support our post office , we will live to regret it . we must protect the asset that we really care about , and I include the post office in that . I know that my community care about this as well . when Croxley Green post office be under threat , I get a lot of correspondence ask I to be proactive . fortunately , the Post Office decide to stop its plan to review that particular post office , but that be just the tip of the iceberg . I know from colleague that their inboxe be fill up with concern from constituent about what they value . it be the silent majority who will be adversely affect if we do not speak up and support our post office . I fully support the move towards banking hub . it make sense to ensure that community be draw to critical asset such as our post office . it be my understanding that the agreement for the Post Office to provide banking hub end at the end of this year . I urge the Minister to reassure the House that if that be the case , he will look into it , and ensure that the Post Office quickly get into negotiation with retail bank to ensure they be viable . with more and more people have less access to cash , the Post Office remain one of the few community hub in area where our constituent can always go and get cash out . it be not all easy for the Post Office : I do not want to get party political , but post office will now have a £ 45 million additional bill because of the national insurance job tax , and there have be a significant increase in business rate within the estate . while the drive for technology be important , the Government , in my view , need to look at how they can support place like our post office to ensure that they remain commercially viable . I can assure the Minister that he will have my support if he be able to do so . I be very grateful to the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) for secure this timely debate . I be glad to have the opportunity to support he in do so . hon . member have describe very powerfully the closure that be happen in their constituency . in my constituency , the last remain post office on the historic King ' s Road be threaten . it be a long time since the King ' s Road heyday of the swinge ' 60 , when " please Mr Postman " be first a hit . unfortunately , since then the number of post office branch , on what be a very long road , have dwindle and there be now only one leave . shockingly , it be one of 108 directly manage branch across the country that the Post Office be plan to shut , 32 of which be in Greater London . the Post Office say that it be do that to save money . I hope it be not do it to pay for the cost of resolve the Horizon scandal . we will perhaps find out over time . meanwhile , we have a King ' s Road post office that offer a buzzing , full service to lot of customer . there be regular queue — every time I go in there I have to wait 10 minute to be serve — and people love the staff . they tell I how worried they be at the possibility of it close and how incredulous they be that it could even be consider . they depend on it . there simply be no other option nearby . all sort of people go there . as my hon . friend the Member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) mention , it be particularly old and disabled people who rely on post office service for bill payment and access to cash , and they be the most worried . around the corner from the post office , there be a number of sheltered accommodation and retirement housing block . the people who live there will be disproportionately affect . on hear what be plan , I immediately launch a petition and be not surprised to get 1 , 000 signature in a very short space of time . many other people have get in touch with I to express their disappointment , dismay and concern . I meet Post Office management in early December and leave they in no doubt about the anger and shock in the community . they say that the King ' s Road post office be lose money . they also say that they might consider franchise it to a retail partner or an independent postmaster , but that no decision have yet be take . naturally , I ask to see a full , detailed analysis of the figure . they very kindly respond that they would let I have that in the new year , which we be now in . I will be see they again next week and press they to provide that analysis . I expect to see not just the financial reason for any decision to close the post office on the King ' s Road , but a detailed impact assessment on how the change would affect the community and what step would be take to mitigate it . the number of customer matter , of course , but so do the type of customer that the post office serve . I have touch on this , but we can not just brush aside the need of old and disabled people : people who do not feel comfortable banking online , people who prefer to use cash . we can not let some people feel that they be see as less important , because they be not less important . we can not let they feel they be leave behind . they must not be leave behind . we need to find a solution that serve the need of everyone . that be why it be so important to I that the Post Office consult genuinely and authentically with the local community about the change . I will be seek clarity on that as well . finally , I will try in the meeting to get clarification on the Post Office ' s think on keep the King ' s Road post office open by franchise it . I have hear the concern that hon . member have express about franchising , but if it prove to be the only option — we be a long way off that — I intend to pitch in and do all I can to make it a success for my constituent . when we lose a major post office on North End Road in the Fulham part of my constituency , I work very closely with the local council to support a new franchisee . I be delighted to open a new post office on North End Road last year . it be a franchise , yes , but it provide a seven - day - a - week service from 9 in the morning to 9 in the evening . it provide a full range of service — even newspaper delivery , which do not happen very much . I be there just last week . it be thrive and very popular . People feel well serve . that be good news for the people of Fulham , but I can not help wonder why the Post Office management have to go down the franchising route . why be directly manage branch so much more expensive to run than locally franchise branch ? perhaps the Minister can shed some light on that ; I will be ask the Post Office . I be delighted by the work that the Government be do , and their determination to revitalise our high street . I welcome the money that have go into the Post Office , and I welcome the propose increase in postmaster ' pay . I look forward to see , later this year , the Green Paper set out option for the future of the Post Office , but it would be helpful at this stage to have clarity about the Government ' s long - term aim . be one of they to maintain a thriving network of post office ? I do hope so . will banking service feature in the Green Paper ? some interesting idea have be raise here today . I can reassure my resident in Chelsea that I will continue to work with they , with the Post Office and with the Government to fight the closure of the King ' s Road branch , and to ensure that no one be leave behind . I join other in thank my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) for secure the debate , and I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for timetable it . as many member have point out , post office form a vital part of our local community and high street — million of people depend on they — but in my Oxfordshire constituency , which contain many village , they be under threat . these post office be community hub which play host to a number of service that be essential to local people and small business , particularly in rural area . they provide vital human contact , and offer information and support for people who might otherwise be isolate , especially give suboptimal rural transport link . just this week Karen Forman , a postmistress in Blewbury , tell I that she have not only be contact about many postal matter , but — this be relevant to what be say by the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) — have be contact about a lost cat and a lost bunch of key , and have help someone to locate a bank card . as other member have note , many post office be face rise operating cost , and the service that they offer do not generate much revenue — an estimate 1 . 7p per transaction — which make it hard to keep the light on . we could do a great deal more to support our community branch . as we hear from the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , post office can provide vital local service , but only if they be properly support and invest in , and be staff appropriately . could we , for example , make more use of post office hub ? could they help people who be digitally exclude to book medical appointment on the internet , or provide service such as printing ? of course , we also need to secure justice for the wrong postmaster — and the flawed Horizon system be still be use — as well as give more support to the people who have be neglect as a result of that scandal . the post office network and the hard - work postmaster and postmistress be in dire need of our support in village such as Blewbury , and many more in my constituency and those of other member . I thank the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) for secure this very timely debate on the future of post office . sadly , few of we have come here today with positive experience ; instead , alongside our constituent , we be concerned about the decline presence of post office in our community . in recent time the Post Office have be in the news for all the wrong reason , with no bad example than the Horizon IT scandal — a shameful , unforgivable wrong do to 900 postmaster , which undermine public faith in the service . however , public faith in the Post Office have be betray in other way too . the recent speculation on the future of directly manage branch have cause genuine panic and concern to my constituent . I appreciate effort by the Post Office to reassure people that no formal decision have yet be make , but I fully understand why so many of my constituent believe that closure or service reduction be inevitable . so many post office have already shut their door across the UK as the directly manage branch model have be replace , and that shift towards franchising have leave many community fear that the post office be no long a permanent fixture in their high street or shopping centre . that be because what be once a simple public service have increasingly have its future decide by profitability , rather than the need and demand of the community , and yet for my constituent , the post office be more than just a place to send parcel and letter ; it represent a trusted and value institution . that be why the Post Office have be around for nearly 400 year . when Post Office official email I to say that directly manage branch be flawed because they have " no retail offering " , it feel as though there be a disconnect between those who use the service and those who manage it . the no . 1 duty of the post office should be to provide a public service . whether retail offering be available in addition should be a secondary consideration , not something motivate the closure or outsourcing of these branch . give the news that WH Smith , which manage around 200 post office , be look to sell all its high street store , the franchising model ought to be review as a matter of urgency . I be already concerned about the future of our post office , but this news only compound my fear . as with the directly manage branch , my thought be with those employ in the WH Smith branch , who will be feel anxious about what this news mean for they . Post Office official have confirm that they be in talk with relevant trade union regard the ongoing consultation , but I sincerely hope that those be genuine discussion and that the concern of the workforce be listen to carefully . in an area such as Springburn , which already have a high unemployment rate , it would be unacceptable for local job to be lose . the Springburn Crown post office be the last directly manage branch in my constituency . it occupy a space in Springburn shopping centre , which be well connected and well use by people across the north - east of Glasgow . I recently meet the community group Spirit of Springburn to discuss the future of the Crown post office . the community be rightly worried about what closure would mean and raise with I their concern about the detrimental impact it would have on not just Springburn but the wide north - east of Glasgow . they remind I that not long ago , the Springburn area have four bank branch . all those branch have now close — a familiar story in constituency across the UK , as the last government preside over 9 , 500 bank branch closure . those closure cause massive damage to our high street and shopping centre and make banking much more difficult for too many . when those closure occur , the post office be always designate as the place for people to continue to access their bank . in fact , when Lloyds bank announce yesterday plan to close its own high street store , it say that people should go to the post office to continue use banking service , but how can people do that if there be no local post office leave ? the reality be that Springburn Crown post office really be the last bank in town , and now even that be at risk . it be profoundly unfair for my constituent to find themselves in this worrying situation , and they deserve urgent reassurance that Springburn post office will not close . that be the appeal I be make to the Government today , and it be also the case be make by the local community . indeed , the vice - chair of Spirit of Springburn , Emma Porter , have write to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade to do just that — order . the hon . Lady will recognise that she be on a time limit , and in order to accommodate all the other member who wish to speak , I be go to reduce it to five minute . I call Matt Vickers . I thank the member who bring this important debate forward . for generation , the local post office have be the beat heart of our town and village . that be certainly the case in Stockton and Thornaby . it have be more than just a place to send and receive mail ; it have be a cornerstone of community life and a trust space where people access essential service , stay connected with love one and support their business . yet today , we stand at a crossroad . the pressure of modern technology , financial constraint and shift consumer habit have place our post office under real threat , and all those challenge have be make so much bad by the Government ' s national insurance tax raid and the slashing of business rate relief . there be threat to the future of the post office in Stockton and Thornaby . in Stockton , our post office have change location over the decade but have be ever present and ever value . it be hope that a franchise in a retailer could protect its future , but the impact of the national insurance tax raid and the slashing of business rate relief be force retailer across the country to close store and axe job . in Stockton and Yarm , the impact be compound by the Labour council ' s introduction of short - stay parking charge . Retail be one of the most important sector in the country . it be the large private sector employer in our economy and often sit at the very heart of our community , and it be the big social mobility driver around . in the last few week , however , we have see fantastic retail giant , include Sainsbury ' s and Tesco , axe job and kill opportunity . in Stockton , we have hear the sad news of WHSmith ' s closure . the store have host the post office , but it look set to close its door as a result of the Government ' s war on high street . I have meet representative of the Post Office to share my concern about the impact that the closure will have on so many of my resident , particularly the elderly . the current post office be not due to close until May , and it have commit to work with I to look at alternative franchisee and location in the town . I be delighted that a number of potential operator have already show an interest . in Thornaby , the situation remain concern but unclear . the local postmaster have a lease , but the community be recently shake when a planning application go forward for a Pizza Hut to take the post office ' s place . the community speak and put forward their objection , and the application be reject . there be fear of an appeal . I have engage with the post office and the town centre as recently as this morning , and hope remain that we can find a way forward . the post office in Stockton and Thornaby be essential . their closure would not simply mean the loss of a building ; it would mean the loss of convenience , social interaction , footfall in the town centre and economic stability for many . give the recent announcement that NatWest be close its Stockton branch , our post office be absolutely vital to our local town . I be determined and hopeful , and will do everything I can to keep our post office ' door open in Stockton and Thornaby . I thank the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) for secure this debate , which , as be show by the number of hon . member wish to participate , be incredibly timely — not least because later today , coincidentally , I will present a petition to the House about the potential closure of Chester - le - Street post office in my constituency of North Durham . Chester - le - Street be one of the 115 Crown post office at risk of closure follow Post Office Ltd ' s announcement that it be review the future of its directly manage branch . this be worry not only for those who be employ in those branch , but for the many people who use post office service , and for the high street — in Chester - le - Street , we would say the " front street " — business that rely on the footfall and pass trade that post office bring . the post office in Chester - le - Street have be at the heart of the community in North Durham since 1936 ; indeed , it be one of only a tiny number of post office that bear the cypher of King Edward VIII . Chester - le - Street have lose most of its high street banking branch in recent year , so it be more important than ever that this vital hub and delivery office remain open and accessible for my constituent . over 650 people have sign the petition that I will present later , which call on the Post Office to ensure that the Chester - le - Street branch remain open . the Post Office ' s corporate website rightly describe the corporation as " an anchor of UK community for century " , and say that it be " drive by a strong social purpose : to be here , in person , for the people who rely on we . " I could not agree more . we must ensure that in Chester - le - Street and the other place that hon . member have mention this afternoon , post office branch remain open " in person " — to use the word on the Post Office ' s corporate website — on our high street and in our town centre , so that they can provide the service that local people rely on . wherever we grow up in the United Kingdom , we all remember the post office and our parent imbue we with the sense that it be one of the thing that we could rely on and trust in a change world . there be many reason for that , one of which be the long - serve and always interested staff . in rural area — Boston and Skegness have many rural area — post office staff be important in help people in village , small town and community , particularly the elderly , the disabled and the vulnerable , to use certain service . when we be grow up , we do not have the digital device we have now . in the many brilliant contribution today , we have hear that post office staff know their customer . they know who be healthy and who might be struggle . if someone do not appear on their regular day , at their usual time , they might say , " where be Mrs Smith ? " . that be massively important in our community . this be not just about money ; it be about the asset value of post office in our community . we and all the post office on the frontline have be let down by decade of mismanagement . in Boston , WHSmith have a post office franchise , and yes , it be close , which have cause great consternation . sadly , WHSmith have not be well manage as a retailer . People be concerned that the replacement will be much small , and they can not understand why service be be withdraw . if we be try to make post office more viable , surely they should have more service , not few . the operator and owner of the post office in Swineshead can not understand why service such as the sale of premium bond and fishing licence , or the payment of tax and national insurance to HMRC , have all be withdraw . that make the post office less viable . all our community , town and tiny village be different , so surely we need to be massively flexible , whether we have a stand - alone post office , or one in a franchise , a library or a village hall . I be delighted when there be a pub in the village hall ; maybe we could have a post office in a pub . I digress , but member can see my point . post office be the most important part of community , and it be the elderly and the vulnerable who need they most . that be why I hope that the Government , give all their challenge , remember that this be not about the money . it be about the asset — the community hub of the post office . I be grateful to the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) for secure this debate . member across the House have speak eloquently about the importance of their local post office , particularly at a time when high street across the country be suffer . shop have close , and bank have leave or be leave the high street . the post office be usually the remain thrive hub of activity on the high street . last year , resident find out from medium report that the future of Westbourne post office be uncertain . there be no prior consultation , and no input from those who use it daily . many of they write to I with their concern about the loss of such an essential community asset , and I share their worry about the possible loss of such a popular and well - use service . at the end of November , we launch a petition to save this much - love post office . to date , more than 2 , 200 people in the area have sign it . as part of the petition , I ask people to share what they love so much about the post office and what it mean to they , and I have be inundate with message from local resident . it be essential to business that use its service , and to the disabled and elderly , who need it for banking , pay bill and access government service . it always have a queue come out of the door . it have be describe as a lifeline and the heart of the community . I will read out a few of the response I receive , to give the House a sense of the importance of our post office . one read : " it be an essential service for so many in the area . I be disabled and I can ' t travel far to deal with the thing the Post Office help with . it ' s nearly always busy , with queue out of the door . to remove it be sheer madness " . another response read : " the Post Office have be open since 1910 and be an essential part of Westbourne village . it serve as a vital resource for elderly resident like I , who may not know how to use the internet and no long have any bank in the area " . another person say : " as a manager of a local charity shop , the post office be integral to our day to day run as provide banking opportunity and enable we to send stock . we use it for stationery and supply . it ' s a vital part of the community " . that be just a snapshot of the response I have receive from different section of the community . they show that the post office be not simply a business ; it be an essential for many people who use it . I have hear from the Post Office that no decision have be make yet about the future of the branch . like my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) , I have hear that the branch be lose money , but I have not see any evidence of that . I know a franchise model be be explore , which may have benefit . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) for raise the issue of WHSmith . we be concern locally about the franchise model because our branch of WHSmith have just close in the town centre , not far from the post office branch . understandably , there be scepticism locally about rely on that model , when we have just see the loss of a post office , with no plan to replace it , despite the high demand for its service . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to the Post Office , the financial support that have be outline , and the forthcoming Green Paper . that show that the Government understand the importance of post office to community . in his closing remark , I hope the Minister can reassure we that there will be no impact on the quality of service that community get , and that he be explore all option — for example , the possibility of provide service , include banking service , through hub , or offer Government service in post office to make they viable and keep they in community . I reassure my constituent in Bournemouth West that I will continue to fight for the post office in Westbourne , and the one in the town centre . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) on secure the debate . have ask for a post office debate at business question only two week ago , I be delighted when he secure this one . in rural area , such as my Thornbury and Yate constituency , post office provide vital service that enable people to live their life . since 2015 , over 6 , 000 bank branch have close across the country , make it hard for people to access their cash and use banking service . many have be reassure that they can still access those core service through their post office , but now even that be at risk . I agree with the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) on the importance of post office to e - commerce . when I make my recent visit to my local sort office , I be tell that the Royal Mail be now a parcel delivery service with a sideline in deliver mail . obviously , post office play an important role in e - commerce and , in do so , support local business . the recent news that the Post Office be look to close 115 Crown post office be a huge blow ; one of those post office be in Yate . resident tell I that it feel like a do deal , not a proposal open for discussion . when I meet the area manager , although she say that no decision have be make , there seem to be a strong lean towards move all post office to the franchising model , with all the risk that hon . member have already mention . Raynes Park have an important high street in my constituency . there be no bank in Raynes Park , so our solitary post office be a vital lifeline , allow resident and business alike to access banking , bill payment and traditional postal service . however , it be one of 115 Crown branch at risk , and my constituent be very concerned about the uncertainty . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should be give assurance now , to provide community with peace of mind , particularly the old and digitally exclude ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , have see the anxiety that the threat of closure be provoke in my constituent . Yate post office be very busy ; there be often significant queue of people wait to access service . it be rather unusual , because it share its space with the local sort office , which operate from the second floor of the building . the quality of service would be negatively impact if it be squeeze into another exist business . Yate and Chipping Sodbury have also lose several bank on the high street , with many people be tell , as I say early , that they could rely on the post office instead . now , even that be at risk , with Yate list by the Post Office as one branch it be seek to close . resident be rightly angry about that , with more than a thousand sign my petition to keep the post office open . sadly , it be not just the Crown post office that be threaten with closure . we recently have confirmation that the post office in Cromhall be set to close , due to the closure of the village shop in which it be base . that mean that the neighbour outreach branch in Tytherington , which be oversee by the same sub - postmaster , be also at risk . the sub - postmaster tell I how the post office at Tytherington be busy than the one in Cromhall , fuel by the fact that nearly all the bank in nearby Thornbury have close . indeed , Lloyds have add itself to the list today . Tytherington post office also have strong support from customer use Royal Mail service for business , as it have a sizeable free car park , make it convenient for they to bring their parcel , letter and banking to the post office counter . despite that , the Post Office refuse to allow the Tytherington branch to become a stand - alone site , and that be cause huge concern for resident . the Tytherington branch be well support and be an essential service for resident , many of whom do not have private car . there be no public transport in the village , mean that the loss of the post office would leave some people utterly cut off . the post office be base in the thriving community shop , which be run by volunteer and also provide a vital service to the local community . in the wake of the news , a grassroots petition support the post office in Tytherington have gain more than 800 signature in just over a week . however , the Post Office say to I that it would not review its decision because , " in the area there be a Main Post Office at Thornbury and a local branch at Alveston — both be within 3 mile of Tytherington . " that be completely tone deaf and ignore the lack of public transport . what be those without car mean to do ? the Post Office have say it be keen to explore a new outreach service and the possibility of a new branch , but all that will take time , especially as it be contingent upon find a new sub - postmaster to do it . it even admit that it be likely the branch will close before an alternative can be find . that mean that in just a few week ' time , no immediate service will be available in the village . I will do all I can to make sure we secure a post office service at Tytherington and in Yate . in closing , I ask the Minister : do he agree that rely solely on the franchising model of post office carry risk and that there be benefit to preserve the stand - alone office ? will he also commit to support community outreach post office base in thrive community shop ? I be grateful to the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) for secure this debate . I think my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) have already summarise a lot of the excellent contribution from the Government side . it be clear from today ' s debate that we all know that post office branch be essential to our local community and the local economy . it sadden I that this Government inherit a Post Office in such a precarious position . have discuss the matter with senior Post Office staff and the Minister , I know that the organisation be face serious financial challenge , and I be grateful for the engagement of the Government and the Minister on the issue . that form the backdrop to the announcement that the Post Office be consider the future of the remain 115 directly manage branch , which have be reference countless time today , with a franchising model be consider for they . I remain especially concerned about the future of the Morley post office on Queen Street . Morley sit in the heart of my constituency . it be a town of around 50 , 000 people and one of the key location that people come to for financial service and shop . the directly manage branch be vital for my constituent and for those who rely on the service that it provide , and I have be look for certainty that it will remain on the high street where it belong . I know the strength of feeling from my constituent , as more than 2 , 500 people have sign my petition to keep the branch open . it be clear that after the closure of many bank branch across Morley , the post office be a lifeline for those who need it . the number back that up — it be not just my testimony . while other directly manage branch have see a 34 % drop in footfall since 2019 because of the pandemic , the Morley post office be only 3 % down . we use our post office . a word on bank branch and banking hub : I have be actively pursue a banking hub for Morley town centre , especially with the recent news that NatWest be due to pull out of the town this year . NatWest even point to the post office on its way out and say , " Don ' t worry — you have that service there , " despite the threat of closure . I have be in touch with Link , one of the organisation that determine which area get banking hub , and it tell I that Morley do not yet meet the criterion for a banking hub because we still have one branch leave . while I have many question about the criterion , we will have to save they for another debate and another time . while Morley do not meet Link ' s criterion , and while I continue to have those discussion with Link , we can not have a situation where my post office close . thankfully , the continued operation of Morley ' s post office will not prevent we from secure a banking hub in future , so there be no reason why we should not do everything in our power to keep the post office open , and that be exactly what I be do . as I state , the branch be very much in demand . it be use by local business that trade on our high street . business owner such as Castlepoint , which own and operate Morley market , have contact I directly about their concern about the branch closing . Post Office research show that three in 10 sme use a post office once a week , whether to post parcel to customer or deposit their cash taking . lose this branch , which be surround by so many business in Morley , would make we all bad off . I know that the direction of travel for the Post Office be to move towards the franchising model that we have hear so much about today , and I remain hopeful that a suitable postmaster will be find to take over the branch , but I be also clear that the branch should remain on the high street . have it in an accessible place in Morley town centre be very important for both resident and business , and I will continue to make that case as strongly as I can . it be why I have request that those interested in take over the franchise in Morley contact I . I be keen to support their bid , assume that they be in the good interest of Morley and the town centre . finally , I ask the Minister whether there be any threat to the number of service that a directly manage branch can offer if it transition to a franchised branch . I reassure all my community in Leeds South West and Morley that I will work tirelessly to ensure that this branch remain open . it be crucial that the service that the post office provide in Morley town centre remain there for many year to come . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) on secure the debate . the contribution throughout have be unify in highlight that post office be a focal point of our community . they be a vital part of our society and our high street , with million of people depend on they every week . they be community hub , provide access to communication , banking and other vital service . that be particularly important for those with restricted access , such as old people or those in more rural population with little email connectivity . there be village that fit that exact description in my constituency of Wokingham , such as Finchampstead , Swallowfield and Hurst . that be why I be deeply concerned about the news that 115 post office branch may be close , with around 1 , 000 job at risk of be lose . it have the potential to increase social isolation for some of the most vulnerable group in the UK . I be especially concerned that the Post Office be review proposal to replace exist branch . specifically , it be look for alternative to its wholly own branch , and consider franchise arrangement where a third party could take they on instead . that open up lot of risk . in my constituency of Wokingham , the post office in Hurst be unexpectedly close a few week ago . it be locate in a shop that many consider a pillar of the community . through no fault of the post office , the tenant run the shop have to close its door . lose a post office can really harm a small village such as Hurst , and the propose solution that people should travel to Wokingham or Twyford to access service be simply not possible for all resident . public transport link be limited , and those who rely on the post office be less likely to drive . if the Post Office estate be reliant on third party , it have no control , and there be the worrying potential that situation like that in Hurst will become increasingly commonplace . a future in which lose a local service once mean that it be go forever — very few be replace once they be go — with little chance of appeal be a failure of government policy . that be especially relevant consider the potential loss of 500 WHSmith shop across the UK , many of which house post office branch , such as the one in Wokingham town centre . the high street be struggle and the Government need to act urgently to turn thing around . what step be the Government take to ensure that the Post Office be on a sustainable footing for the long term ? will the Minister commit to ensure that none of the 115 post office will close until a consultation with each local community have be undertake ? have the Minister meet representative from the Post Office to draw up plan in case it lose hundred of its site due to WHSmith ' s financial issue ? the BBC report today that Ofcom have propose cut the delivery of second - class letter to every other weekday and scrap delivery on Saturdays . that would harm service for million of household and small business . Royal Mail executive should be work night and day to turn the company around and fix the postal service . the new owner agree to the exist delivery target when they take over the company , and they should stick to they . I would appreciate it if the Minister could address my point and offer reassurance that our community will receive the great service they deserve . post office branch provide a place to do banking for million of people across the country , and that be the case in Wokingham , but another area of concern be the lack of resilience in our local financial service . the WHSmith - locate post office in Wokingham be too small and the staff be too busy with all their other task . one constituent have to wait about 45 minute to withdraw £ 15 . that be why I and local campaigner like Lynn Forbes hope that we can get a banking hub . however , our application have be decline . if the WHSmith in Wokingham town centre be to close , our already limit option would be reduce far . link , which provide the banking hub , be encourage within the current legislation to consider the protection of face - to - face banking , but it be not explicitly empower to take that into account when make a final decision on whether to establish a banking hub . instead , it just focus on cash access . will the Minister explain why the protection of face - to - face service be not consider , and will he introduce further legislation to require their protection ? I call the shadow Minister . this have be an excellent debate , and I congratulate the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) on secure it and thank the Backbench Business Committee for award it . a consistent theme throughout the debate have be the important role the post office play in community across our land , provide what the hon . Member beautifully describe as friendly access to key service that connect people , that service community , particularly those without bank , and that help those unable to use the internet to connect to Government service . in West Worcestershire , we be fortunate enough to have 31 post office , include some mobile service , and I put on record my thank to all the friendly sub - postmaster and mistress who provide those service . over the course of the debate we hear about place across the UK : Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard , South West Devon , South East Cornwall , Orkney and Shetland , Bermondsey and Old Southwark , South West Hertfordshire , Chelsea and Fulham , Didcot and Wantage , Glasgow North East , Stockton West , North Durham , Boston and Skegness , Bournemouth West , Thornbury and Yate , Leeds South West and Morley , and Wokingham , and in intervention we hear about Newton Abbot , Dawlish , Teignmouth , Basildon and Billericay , Dulwich , and Tiverton and Minehead . and I dare say , Madam Deputy Speaker , you feel strongly about the post office in Romsey . we can see just how incredibly valuable that network of friendly institution be across the country . I be afraid to say , however — and I break it gently to the Minister — that labour ' s Budget of broken promise be threaten that network . through the national insurance job tax , the hike in business rate and the incoming employment regulation , Labour be hike the cost of do business , as swathe of post office be face ten of million more in tax and red tape . those pressure mean that the Post Office have be force into assess the future of more than 100 Crown post office branch . rumour abound that when the Green Paper be publish , it may include a consultation on the reduction in the number of post office to below 11 , 500 . will the Minister put pay to that speculation by tell the House when the Green Paper will be publish ? as the Post Office and its branch network be major employer , with more than 50 , 000 full - time equivalent worker , another impact be that the Post Office could face an extra £ 45 million bill as a result of the national insurance hike , accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies . post office be often eligible for retail , hospitality and leisure business rate relief , and they face a huge increase in their business rate as the relief fall from 75 % to 40 % . accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , the Employment Rights Bill will cost business across the country £ 4 . 5 billion . proportionately , give that Post Office have 50 , 000 employee , the Bill will cost the Post Office over £ 8 million . the House do not have to take that from I ; I will quote the chairman of the Post Office , Nigel Railton : " it almost go without say : we be a business in need of a fresh start – and urgently … and at the recent Budget , we see … cost rise with National Insurance Contributions , National Living Wage and business rate . " will the shadow Minister give way ? I will . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman do not like hear that news . it have nothing to do with hear the news . I just wonder whether the shadow Minister can remind we how of many Crown post office be lose while she be in government . I be just get to that — the hon . Gentleman be absolutely on point with where I be go . sadly , it be under the previous Labour Government that the network really shrink in a major way , when the number of post office go into sharp decline , before it then stabilise in the 2010 . in fact , during the entire time that we be in coalition with our Liberal Democrat colleague , and then in government ourselves , the network remain above that 11 , 500 figure . it take action , as we have hear clearly this afternoon , to maintain that precious network . will the shadow Minister give way ? I have already give way to the hon . Gentleman , thank you very much . but you do not answer my question . I have give way . the previous Government work to enter into a new partnership with post office and come up with the idea that people could confirm their identity in person . that be a way of use that valuable network across the land . we recognise that vulnerable people sometimes struggle to verify their identity online . we also begin the initiative to help community deal with bank closure by set up a network of banking hub . I be pleased to hear the Minister confirm early today that he will continue back banking hub delivery through the Post Office , but do he consider that the framework negotiation between the Post Office and the bank , which be in their final stage , be go well ? one year on from ITV ' s historic programme " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , I want to put on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) for all he do to address the issue raise in that programme . can the Minister detail the progress his Government be make on the compensation for sub - postmaster ? I want to raise the issue of Fujitsu , which design the Horizon IT system that have destroy so many life and livelihood . under the previous Government , there be discussion with Fujitsu about provide a share of the compensation to the victim of the Horizon scandal , and Fujitsu confirm that it will pause bid for Government contract until the public inquiry be conclude . however , this month it be report that the Government have award new contract to Fujitsu . when Labour be in opposition , many Labour Members criticise award make to Fujitsu , so can the Minister provide an update on the Government ' s current approach ? the hon . Lady mention the Horizon scandal . be she of the opinion that the previous Government ' s failure to address the Horizon scandal over such a long period of time and the billion of pound that have have to be spend sort out the mess since then have nothing to do with the financial problem that the Post Office now find itself in ? I do not want to politicise this too much , because I think that have go on for a long period of time , and the inquiry take a lot of evidence last year . I think my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton play a remarkable role in exonerate so many people , and in set up the public inquiry . my next question to the Minister be : could he provide an update on what he be hear through his channel about when the inquiry may publish its report . it finish take public evidence at the end of last year , and I anticipate it may publish that later this year , but do he have an update on that for the House ? do he have any plan to compensate sub - postmaster and sub - postmistress who be victim of Horizon ' s predecessor system — the Capture and ecco system that predate Horizon — and do he have plan to quash any conviction arise from those two system ? in the spending review , how much public money be the Minister request to put in a replacement for the Horizon system ? can he tell we how many post office currently benefit from small business rate relief , and what be the Government plan about continue that throughout this Parliament ? far to the question from the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) about today ' s worry announcement from Ofcom that second class post may be deliver only every other weekday and not on Saturdays , what discussion be the Minister have with Ofcom to prevent this further attack on the demand for our precious postal service ? to conclude , we have hear how incredibly important this precious network of friendly people across our land be to this country , with those 11 , 500 post office and the distance requirement that be in place . after hear from so many colleague , will the Minister reassure the House that he will sustain that network throughout the life of this Parliament . prevention be so much well than cure . let we all focus on support our much - love post office in any way we can to continue the wonderful work that they do up and down the country . I echo the thank to the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) for secure this important debate . there have be some very clear and consistent message from across the House to the Government in this debate , and I pay tribute to the passion with which hon . member on all side of the House have raise key constituency concern , as the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) say . we have hear from my hon . friend the Members for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) , for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) , for South East Cornwall ( Anna Gelderd ) , for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) , for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) , for Glasgow North East ( Maureen Burke ) , for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) and for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mark Sewards ) . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Withington ( Jeff Smith ) have particular concern about Didsbury post office . we also hear from the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) , the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) and the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) , and I know you , Madam Deputy Speaker , have concern in this space , too . post office provide hugely important everyday service to million of people across our country . community rightly expect to have access to those essential service , just as they would to a gp surgery , a primary school or neighbourhood police . that be because , as many member make clear , post office be the very beat heart of our town and village . as our economy have modernise and evolve , so too have our local post office . today they be so much more than a place to send letter and parcel . they act as high street bank , as many have say , as access point for some Government service , and as community hub for an array of different activity , generate crucial social capital . indeed , after the unearthing of the Horizon scandal , the nation ' s unanimous support for sub - postmaster and their campaign for redress and exoneration show how revere the post office and its worker be by the british public — by all of we . we be work as fast as we can to give sub - postmaster the compensation they deserve , and we be indeed explore what further step we can take . but since the end of June , in just the six month that we have be in office , more than 1 , 000 more sub - postmaster who be victim of the scandal have receive compensation . the amount pay out in redress have increase by over £ 355 million , more than double the amount that have be pay out at the time of the general election . as of 3 January , almost £ 600 million have be pay to over 3 , 800 sub - postmaster across all four main compensation scheme . also as of 3 January , the GLO — group litigation order — scheme have receive 453 claim of which 370 be fully complete and the remain 83 be be assess for their completeness or undergo a request for further information that would unlock a more generous offer of compensation . we expect then to have pay substantial redress , even if the claim be not fully settle , to the majority of GLO claimant by 31 March . but let I be clear : there be still complex case to resolve and there be still much more to do in term of compensation . the hon . member for West Worcestershire , speak for the opposition , ask about Capture . we have identify a number of gap in the compensation process . we publish in particular the Kroll report into what have happen in term of the Post Office use of the Capture software prior to the installation of the Horizon system . we be begin to talk to sub - postmaster who use the Capture software about redress go forward so that we can design an effective redress scheme . the hon . Lady and the House may be aware that there be a number of case where there be conviction that appear to relate to use of the Capture software by the Post Office that be with the Criminal Cases Review Commission at the moment . the hon . Lady also ask about the timing of when we might hear the Sir Wyn Williams conclusion . as she will understand , we as the Government do not want in any way to be see to be rush Sir Wyn Williams . we have hear a similar timescale as she — sometime later this year — and we will all wait with considerable interest for the conclusion . the hon . Lady also ask about the Ofcom consultation . I stress that it be still a consultation . Ofcom will be consult for some 10 week and , as she would expect , we will be fully engage in that process . on the future of the post office , we all know that our high street have face huge challenge in recent year . in some case , the presence of a post office on a high street have be a game changer in drive footfall and attract custom to other business . the public — as many member have allude to , it be often the elderly , those who use cash and those who be digitally exclude — rely on the post office for essential service . it be therefore right that the Government hold the Post Office to account to ensure that there be enough postal service provision across the country , and I recognise my particular responsibility in that regard . we protect the post office network by set minimum access criterion . with a network of this size , we be likely to see fluctuation in the number of branch open at any one time , but crucially , the access criterion ensure that regardless of how the network change , service remain within local reach of people at all time . the Government recognise the key role that post office play in their community and how branch in rural area in particular often act as community hub . we be listen carefully to stakeholder to ensure that the whole network , include those branch , be sustainable . do the Minister agree that the manner in which the Post Office allow the information about the closure of directly manage branch to come into the public domain be unacceptable ? what be he do to ensure that the Post Office treat community with well respect than that in the future ? I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that we be where we be , and it be important that we move forward . I will come to the question of directly manage branch in a second . to ensure that we be plan properly for the future , we will publish a Green Paper before the summer to seek the public ' s view , insight and experience to help shape the future of the Post Office . in the meantime , we be take step to continue to support the network . along with the annual £ 50 million subsidy , we have provide a furth £ 37 . 5 million to support the Post Office network next year . our thinking on the future of the post office will also be influence by Sir Wyn Williams ' s conclusion . we continue to support and encourage the chair of the Post Office , Nigel Railton , to shift the focus of the Post Office away from headquarters and towards postmaster . the Post Office , with our support , be review its cost , as its financial position continue to be challenge . we be work with the senior leadership at the Post Office on future opportunity , begin with banking , so that the company can increase its product offer and commercial revenue go forward . the Post Office have set up a new consultative council that will work with senior management on how these new plan be take forward . it be a first , but none the less important step to change the culture of the Post Office . build a sustainable future for the Post Office be imperative . it have have many false new start . nearly half of its branch be not profitable or make only a small profit from post office business . postmaster pay have not increase materially for a decade . Mr Railton be look to deliver a reduction in the Post Office ' s cost and , as I have allude to , an increase in its commercial revenue . he have also set out an intention to transform the service and the support that postmaster receive from the Post Office , which we have strongly encourage . he have announce ambition for a new deal for postmaster , and I be pleased that the Post Office recently make a £ 20 million immediate one - off payment to postmaster to increase their remuneration . on the future of directly manage branch , I appreciate that it be challenge for community that lose their post office service . I speak from experience , have have Harrow ' s directly manage branch close in 2016 and transfer to a franchise service instead . I be always happy to challenge the Post Office on specific concern that member have at constituency level . however , the Post Office operate as a commercial business , and the company have the freedom to deliver the branch network within the parameter we set . I know there be concern about the future of dmb , and it be important to underline that no definitive decision have be take on the future of any individual directly manage branch . I have make clear to the Post Office that there must be discussion with union and other key stakeholder . I be pleased to hear that the Post Office have see positive engagement from independent postmaster and strategic partner , who have express their interest in take on dmb . it be encouraging that there continue to be such interest in the chance to run a post office . I look forward to work with the Minister on the future of the franchise in my constituency . be he aware that there be 373 Crown post office in 2010 but that by 2024 that number have fall to 115 ? the shadow Minister either do not know that figure or do not want to admit it . funnily enough , I be aware of that statistic ; my hon . friend make his point powerfully . we be clear in our manifesto that that we would seek to strengthen the Post Office network in consultation with postmaster , trade union and customer , and that remain very much our ambition . that be one of the reason why we be work closely with the Post Office in provide funding to support the replacement of the Horizon computer system . the Post Office ' s future lie particularly in cash and banking . with the right support from the financial service industry and engagement with group such as Cash Access UK , there be clearly more that the Post Office could offer on the high street through banking hub and the Post Office network . we be begin to work with the Post Office to improve its banking offer on the high street . the Government be strongly committed to ensure the long - term sustainability of the Post Office . it be a national asset that provide an invaluable public service in all our constituency . there be certainly challenge ahead , but we continue to work with the Post Office to ensure that it be fit for the future . we always welcome view on the network . I thank those hon . member who secure the debate and all other hon . member for their contribution . I call Gideon Amos to wind up . I have learn today from the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) that Postman Pat be the model to follow , and just like Postman Pat himself , post office service may change , but they must not wither . we have also hear how much of a trust institution our post office be . the word " trust " come through several time from the hon . member for Glasgow North East ( Maureen Burke ) and for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) . we should never forget that it be the staff in those post office and , of course , the sub - postmaster and sub - postmistress who be so horrendously treat by the Horizon scandal who make post office what they be and why they be so important to our community . my hon . friend and hon . member across House be clearly great champion of their local post office . my hon . friend the Member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) mention his post office ' s lose cat service , which I be interested to hear about , and my hon . friend the Member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) mention the outreach service . to paraphrase my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , in Wellington in my constituency the postal service be fix so many time it be definitely break , and now we no long have one at all for a town of 15 , 000 people . many other hon . member highlight the importance of post office as hub for their community , include the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) and for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) . I completely agree with the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) that the King ' s Road without a post office seem unimaginable . I wish he well in his campaign . I be somewhat disappointed that the Minister do not comment on the fact that banking hub , which be be create around the country , be not provide post office service despite have " Post Office " write on the outside of the building . I would very much like to follow that up with the Minister on another occasion ; it seem an obvious solution . as the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire say , secure the next agreement for banking hub be incredibly important , and we certainly support the Government in achieve that . finally , I congratulate the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) , for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mark Sewards ) and for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) on their petition . the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark be also continue his excellent house - sit service by sit in the House this afternoon and make sure that the debate go on as need . I will leave the House with a couple of quotation from my petition about the post office in Wellington . one petitioner say : " I feel so sorry for those people without a car — particularly the frail and elderly . they have to trek in all wind and weather " to the next village several mile away . they continue : " you see so many village with their own post office , yet a grow town like Wellington doesn ' t — it ' s bizarre . " Mary say : " why be it not consider at the same time as the banking hub , as it ' s run by the post office ? " the first citizen of Wellington , our mayor , say that " since 2019 when the … Post Office close , at least two business owner " try to operate postal service but find that the funding give do not make it a viable option . that be why we desperately need a main post office for the town of Wellington and its 15 , 000 people . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the future of local Post Office service . Petition - Chester - le - Street Post Office I wish to present a petition relate to the potential closure of the post office in Chester - le - Street , which have be at the heart of the community in North Durham since 1936 . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of North Durham , declare that Chester - le - Street Post Office , which provide vital service to local resident be at risk of closure ; and note that 658 people have sign a similar online petition on this matter . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage the Post Office to ensure that Chester - le - Street Post Office can remain open . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P003039 ] Petition - Free 1 - hour parking in Yarm I rise to present a petition on behalf of the people of Stockton West . Yarm have the most beautiful high street in the country , with an amazing offer of retail and hospitality business . however , it face a huge threat , as the Labour council be set to axe one - hour free parking , which pose a real risk to the high street , its business and job . support by local councillor Andrew Sherris , John Coulson and Dan Fagan , more than 2 , 500 people have sign a similar petition online to protect Yarm ' s one - hour free parking . I welcome the opportunity to present the petition today . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the constituency of Stockton West , declare that Stockton Council must keep Yarm ' s free 1 - hour parking ; far declare that free parking be crucial for support local business , encourage footfall , and help Yarm ' s economy thrive ; and further note that the Council ' s change to eliminate 1 - hour free parking risk harm small business and deter shopper . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure that the high street in Yarm be support with free 1 - hour parking . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003040 ] Doncaster Royal Infirmary Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to make the case in this Chamber for the repair and refurbishment of Doncaster Royal Infirmary . this be not the first time I have raise this issue in this place , such be its importance to my constituent . Doncaster Royal Infirmary be at the heart of our community in Doncaster . for many of we , include myself , it be where we be bear and rely on during some of the most difficult and painful moment of our life . it be with great sadness that I come to this Chamber to say that after consistent underfunding , our hospital be in dire need of repair . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the NHS staff who have dedicate their career to care for the patient at the hospital . when I work as a prison officer , I spend many hour on escort at DRI and see for myself the commitment of its staff . we live in a time where pressure on the NHS be immense , and staff across the country face unbearable condition as they try to support patient in a system that desperately need reform . I be pleased that this Government be commit to enact change within our NHS for the benefit of both patient and the staff who treat they . in Doncaster , our dedicated NHS staff face add pressure . Doncaster Royal Infirmary face one of the high repair backlog in the country . the East Ward tower block , which house some of the most vulnerable patient , face critical infrastructure risk and safety concern , and therefore be at the very top of the Doncaster and Bassetlaw teaching hospital ' list of priority . other area with a backlog of repair include operate theatre , the critical care department and the woman and child ' s hospital . as my hon . friend will know , in April 2021 a leak occur at the woman ' s hospital at Doncaster Royal Infirmary . the water then flood the area and go into the electrical system , and a fire break out . some 60 patient be impact and have to be evacuate , include premature baby . thank to the effort of the amazing hospital staff , as my hon . friend have mention , no one be hurt , but the damage be substantial , and it impact large part of the hospital . do my hon . friend agree that we need to learn from such incident , and that it make absolute sense , both financially and for people ' s safety , to proactively manage repair and do the maintenance that be require ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and that incident showcase how desperate the situation be . it be a testament to the staff and the team at the trust that no one be hurt , and that the repair work that need to be do happen immediately . other area where a backlog remain include the operate theatre . accord to the Doncaster Royal Infirmary refurbishment plan , the operate theatre at the hospital do not meet modern standard for space . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) across the hospital , there remain infrastructure that date back to the 1930 . imagine all the advancement we have make in science , innovation , technology and medicine since then , yet Doncaster patient be treat in a building that have not be update in line with any of that . most worryingly , a recent report conclude that there would be an " increase risk to life " be a fire to occur in Doncaster and Bassetlaw teaching hospital . that be due to the age and infrastructure of the building , and the electrical work , which do not meet the need of a modern - day hospital . in spite of the catalogue of urgently need repair , Doncaster be not successful in its bid to secure a new hospital under the previous Government . despite promise make by a string of Health Ministers , our application for crucial funding from the new hospital programme be deny by the Conservatives . that be a bitter blow to the community . we now know that the funding promise for the programme never exist — it be a work of fiction . that do not just affect the hospital include in the programme ; the implication ripple across all hospital that desperately need investment . in Doncaster , we be do all we can to improve health provision for resident . that include the work that Mayor Ros Jones and the trust be do to set up health on the high street , provide appropriate health provision in the city centre . that will not only improve and quicken the service , but increase footfall on the high street . the trust announce in December that as part of a wide £ 19 . 8 million investment project , some refurbishment work will be complete at Doncaster Royal Infirmary . that be welcome , but it be not the overall solution . as a result of not be include in the new hospital programme , the Doncaster and Bassetlaw hospital trust have come up with a thorough and extensive on - site rebuild and refurbishment plan . the estimate cost in 2023 for the full refurbishment and a new building in front of the east ward tower block be up to £ 356 million , the cost for work on the theatre £ 35 million , and a refurbishment of the woman ' s and child ' s hospital , mention by my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , would cost up to £ 87 million . that would also help to generate some extra capacity , which be much need in the current climate . this week , I visit Doncaster Royal Infirmary with my hon . friend and the Minister to show she the extent of the repair backlog , and to demonstrate the urgency with which we need action . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for Health for meet I and my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) this week to talk through the DRI refurbishment plan , and the support we need to get the rebuild work do . that work be also support by my right hon . friend the Member for Rawmarsh and Conisbrough ( John Healey ) . the plan lay out the detail of propose refurbishment work , not just to clear the repair backlog , but to ensure that core service be protect and a safe site can be ensure for a minimum of 20 year . I now ask the Government for action . I ask they for capital investment to clear the repair backlog , and to support the refurbishment and building programme , so that the people of Doncaster can access good - quality secondary care in a safe hospital . I ask the Government to support the staff at Doncaster Royal Infirmary in do their job safely and effectively . I ask the Government to make sure that our hospital be fit for the future . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) on secure a debate on this really important issue for her constituent . since her election , she have be a committed champion for Doncaster Royal Infirmary , and I thank she for her tireless effort . she be absolutely right that the promise make by the previous Government be hollow and build on sand . even for the hospital that make it into the new hospital programme , the money simply be not there . they let down the people of Doncaster . on Monday , I have the privilege of visit Doncaster Royal Infirmary , along with my hon . friend and our hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , and witness the outstanding care that staff be provide despite significant infrastructure challenge . I entirely agree with my hon . friend ' s comment about the situation , and about the pressure that the staff find themselves under . staff and patient deserve well than a hospital prone to flood , fire and equipment failure , some of which I see for myself on Monday . Doncaster Royal Infirmary now have a backlog - of - maintenance bill of approximately £ 114 million , and the constant need for critical repair leave scarce resource for develop and enhance facility . that be the reality face Doncaster Royal Infirmary and hospital nationwide after year of under - investment by the previous Government . reverse the trend and repair and rebuild our hospital estate be a vital part of our ambition to create an NHS fit for the future . that be why the Chancellor announce that health capital spending be set to increase to £ 13 . 6 billion in 2025 - 26 , represent record level of capital investment in healthcare . I be pleased that work to address some of the most pressing issue at Doncaster Royal Infirmary be under way , with £ 19 . 8 million confirm for the refurbishment and relocation of the critical care unit . that will deliver a safe and more accessible environment for the most vulnerable patient . support project be already in progress , include the relocation of the surgical same - day emergency care department . while I accept that this by no means address all the issue raise today , it be nevertheless a project that will deliver much - need safety improvement . nhs planning guidance publish today set out the NHS ' s operational capital envelope , national capital programme and allocation process for 2025 - 26 . I recognise that the guidance will be of interest to member who wish to understand the impact on their constituency , but as we be here to discuss Doncaster Royal Infirmary , I will focus on the funding opportunity available for that hospital . the Government be back the NHS with over £ 4 billion in operational capital in 2025 - 26 to empower local system and ensure that fund be allocate accord to local priority . NHS England confirm today that South Yorkshire integrate care board , which be responsible for Doncaster Royal Infirmary , have be allocate £ 107 million in operational capital to spend on its capital priority next year . in addition to the annual operational capital allocation , the Government have allocate £ 750 million to an estate safety fund for 2025 - 26 , which will focus on the bad safety risk across the NHS estate . South Yorkshire ICB have be allocate £ 19 million of that funding on the basis of need , critical infrastructure risk , estate incident , and the recent maternity estate survey . system have be ask to prioritise their estate safety allocation to deliver maximum safety benefit locally . their plan will be review by NHS England and the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure that national and regional priority be address effectively and scheme represent value for money . in some case , estate safety funding may also be use to initiate multi - year scheme when that represent the most effective approach . I strongly encourage the trust to discuss option with the ICB for allocate some of its operational capital and estate safety funding to repair at Doncaster Royal Infirmary . let I also draw attention to the £ 1 . 35 billion of capital funding allocate for constitutional standard recovery in 2025 - 2026 . although it be not target directly at repair , Doncaster Royal Infirmary may be able to benefit from some of the £ 24 million that have be allocate to South Yorkshire ICB to support its progress towards achieve constitutional standard for my hon . friend ' s constituent . I encourage the trust to explore possible option with the ICB that could address constitutional standard recovery as well as critical repair , maximise value for money and , crucially , benefit patient who deserve much well . the Government recognise that , like Doncaster Royal Infirmary , many hospital across the country need funding to overhaul their digital infrastructure . that be why we be invest more than £ 2 billion in NHS technology and digital in 2025 - 26 to run essential service , increase productivity , improve cyber - security , enhance patient access , and ensure that all trust have electronic patient record . I thank Doncaster and Bassetlaw trust for its co - operation on the implementation of a system - wide electronic patient record , and I want to reassure the trust that this investment in digital and technology will be available for project beyond electronic patient record . the Government understand that long - term certainty about capital funding will be essential to address the critical infrastructure issue at hospital such as Doncaster Royal Infirmary , and across the NHS estate . capital budget beyond 2025 - 26 will be determine through the current spending review , which conclude in June 2025 . in conclusion , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central for raise this important issue , and for her continued support , and that of her colleague , for Doncaster Royal Infirmary . I extend my thank to the staff of Doncaster Royal Infirmary for host my insightful visit , and for their candour in explain to I how they have get into this situation in recent year . I hope to return when the new critical care unit be open . the Government be commit to repair and rebuild our hospital estate . it will take time — we have inherit a shocking situation — and I look forward to work with colleague on this vital issue across the country in the come year . question put and agree to . House adjourn .