prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] a birthday wish to Phil , our Head Doorkeeper , who be 54 today . oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Natural Flood Management Programme what the location be of successful applicant to the natural flood management programme . forty project have be select to proceed to the development stage of the £ 25 million natural flood management programme . they include a broad range of location , from Alnmouth to St Austell . I be work with resident in the Chase Way and Kendal Drive area of Great Sutton , alongside Environment Agency representative and member of the local authority , to try to find a solution to the flooding problem that we have there . there be lot of different pot of money available at different time , and sometimes it be difficult to understand what the realistic chance be of our succeed in get the funding that we need to bridge the gap that we have at the moment to get the work do . will it be possible for I to meet with either the Secretary of State or some of his team to talk about what realistic funding option we have for the area ? I thank the hon . member for his engagement , and I will arrange a meeting with the relevant member of the team . the information be on gov . uk . two project near his constituency — the Cheshire Wildlife Trust and the Mersey Rivers Trust — be involve in the programme . I welcome his engagement . it be a good scheme , and I will ensure that he get that meeting . I have be work with the Environment Agency to address a small flood problem on the River Gade in my constituency . the Environment Agency have be very helpful , and have meet with I . in another part of my constituency , the River Ver have be flood with sewage yet again . that be unacceptable , and the Environment Agency need to take it seriously and take action against the water company , rather than just say , " we ' ll work with you . " action be what my constituent want . I agree . that be why we be increase fourfold the number of inspection , so that water company be not mark their own homework . it be why we have the plan for water , introduce by the former Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , and significant additional investment . it be why we be take tough enforcement action , with the big ever criminal prosecution of water firm by the Environment Agency . it be also why we be take action on thing such as bonus for company that commit serious wrongdoing . farmer what step he be take to support farmer . what step he be take to support rural farmer . food security be more important than ever , which be why we need to back british farmer to keep put food on our table , while protect the environment . we be support farm with £ 2 . 4 billion of annual spending , an average boost of 10 % for the sustainable farming incentive payment scheme , and new rule to ensure that farmer get a fair price for their product . obviously farmer in low - lie area of Lincolnshire be suffer from flooding , so any update on the support that they can be give would be very helpful . I have a specific question for the Secretary of State : will the Government update we on when they will announce the long - term funding solution that they promise for internal drainage board , to address the pressure on local authority through special levy ? my right hon . friend be right to focus on the importance of drainage board , particularly in Lincolnshire . he know that I have a particular constituency interest in the adjacent area . we have announce £ 65 million of funding , and the Minister for water , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , will make further announcement on that shortly . we be look more widely at the huge pressure on farming from the wet weather , particularly in area such as Lincolnshire . there have be a 60 % increase in rainfall — these have be our second wet six month — and we be look at a series of easement , particularly with regard to SFI , to ensure that farmer get their payment . on behalf of my party , I too wish Phil , the Head Doorkeeper , a very happy birthday . as the government know , we grow the very fine seed potato in the far north of Scotland . they be particularly good because , relatively speak , they be virus free . that be probably because of the northerly latitude where they be grow . I happen to know that farmer in Europe be cry out to get hold of these seed potato . I ask the Government to do everything in their power to ensure that the potato go where they be need and want . the hon . Member make a valid point in term of both the quality and the desirability of the product to which he refer . the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries be engage actively with the EU on that specific point , and I be sure that he will update the hon . member on it . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . one have only to look over the hedge of eastern England to agree with those who be predict the bad harvest in live memory . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the impact that will have on the wide rural economy — in particular , the availability and price of straw , which be vital for the livestock sector , and important commodity such as potato , which be likely to be under great pressure in term of supply and price this autumn ? as ever , my right hon . friend be absolutely on the money in term of the concern regard straw price and low harvest this autumn . we be engage extensively with the sector . we have the Farm to fork summit next week , chair by the Prime Minister . that be an indication of how seriously we be take this , and how much we be engage with farmer and farm leader . it be north - east week in the parliamentary canteen , and I hope all member be take the opportunity to enjoy great north - eastern produce . however , it be always north - east week in Grainger Market in Newcastle , which try to champion local farmer and produce . what be the Secretary of State do to support north - east farmer in the challenge they face to produce sustainable and affordable food for my constituent face a cost of living crisis ? as the MP for North East Cambridgeshire , I feel I should extend north - east a little wide , give that we be a big food - produce area . to the hon . Lady ' s specific point , the Minister for Farming be engage with that issue and be travel up to the north - east this evening as part of that engagement . our colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , be conduct a review of public sector food procurement , so that within our public sector we can well procure domestic produce . we also have a review of label so that we can more clearly label that fantastic produce from the north - east , to ensure that purchaser can buy it more easily . I call the shadow Minister . what be the Government do to support farmer ? quite a few people be ask that . when one look at the evidence of what be go on , the survey this week from the National Farmers Union into farmer confidence reveal that a staggering 65 % of farmer be face decline profit , or their business will not survive at all . their prospect be bad than most Tory mp , it suddenly seem . why be it that farmer do so badly under the Conservatives ? the hon . Gentleman seem to have write that question before listen to the various example that I have just give , but let I give he one . the most successful scheme the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have ever run be the current sustainable farming incentive scheme , with over 20 , 000 application — more than any other scheme the Department have run . we have also be flexible in look at how those scheme be deliver , give the challenge of the wet weather , and I will have more to say on that very shortly . I call the SNP spokesperson . I listen carefully to that answer . while Brexit have be deeply damaging to farmer all across the United Kingdom , the action take by the Scottish Government mean that farmer in Scotland have far great protection than those elsewhere on these island . the SNP Government have guarantee scottish farmer the level of funding that be available pre - Brexit , unlike the Tories here in England or indeed the Labour party in Wales . that be the SNP stand up for farmer in word and deed , unlike the Westminster party . will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to apologise to farmer in England for his Government ' s betrayal of they ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the £ 2 . 4 billion commitment in our manifesto , which have be meet in full . Tree Planting what step his Department be take to help increase tree planting . this Government have put in place the most comprehensive regime ever to increase tree planting . crucially , it be underpin by legislation in the Environment Act 2021 and legally bind target to increase our tree cover to 16 . 5 % , and support and back up by our £ 675 million nature for climate fund . to date , 15 million tree have be plant under this government , more tree than in any other decade . tree must play a crucial role if we be to meet our commitment on nature recovery and net zero , and they be a tremendous source of happiness , well - being and landscape beauty . to meet the ambitious tree - plant goal that the Government have set , can they streamline the permission process ? some of the red tape seem disproportionate and in need of regulatory reform . I thank my right hon . friend for the work she have do in her constituency to encourage tree planting , but she be right that the process need to be fast and simple . we have take that on board , and the Forestry Commission have recently introduce the woodland creation fast track , aim to help to decide eligible woodland creation offer within just 12 week . to inform that scheme , it have develop a low - sensitivity map of the whole country to show people the good place to plant tree , or where they could think about plant tree , that be not on our good available agricultural land , which be important for food . lead by the Woodland Trust , Tree Equity Score UK be a map - base application create to address disparity in urban tree distribution by identify the area in great need of investment in tree . what be the Department do to promote increase tree cover in the part of the country that need it most ? I highlight again the low - sensitivity map , which point out exactly the same thing as the map the hon . Gentleman refer to . we have many fund focus in particular on urban area — some come from the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities — to encourage urban tree planting , because it be so important for our health and wellbeing . we have a whole list of fund available , and I urge people to look at they and plant tree . I call the shadow Minister . I have to say that the Minister ' s response suggest that the Government be completely in denial . the Office for Environmental Protection report expose that the Government be way off target on their legally bind tree - planting target . there have be no trend of improvement on tree planting between 2018 and 2023 . it would be bad enough if the problem be lack of money , but her Department be even fail to spend the money that it have be allocate . the environmental land management scheme be underspent by hundred of million , and the nature for climate fund that she speak about have return £ 77 million to the Treasury unspent . be not it clear that , to get the tree cover that our country need , we do not need a magic money tree ; we need a Labour Government ? I ask the hon . gentleman to look at his own tree - planting record . this Government have plant more tree than Labour do . we now have the plan in place so , if one look at the graph , it be ramp up to hit those target , and the training , skill , the forest apprenticeship and the framework be in place to reach our target . coastal Defences what step his Department be take to strengthen coastal defence . we be invest approximately £ 1 . 3 billion of our £ 5 . 6 billion flood and coastal risk management investment programme in coastal project . they will well protect over 100 , 000 property , as well as critical infrastructure . the Environment Agency be also run the £ 36 million Government - fund coastal transition accelerator programme , which be fund coastal authority so they can explore how to well support their community . the East Anglian coast have take a real battering in recent month , and project such as the Lowestoft flood defence scheme have be delay . our region be the most vulnerable to climate change , and be a lead player in deliver net zero for the UK , so will my hon . friend consider a climate change risk assessment on which a regional coast defence strategy can then be prepared to properly protect home , business , port , farmland and infrastructure , as well as nurture our unique coastal environment ? there be no well champion than my hon . friend on the challenge of coastal erosion . the Environment Agency be develop a new national flood risk assessment and an update coastal erosion risk map to improve how we access flood risk information and communicate it to our community . those new dataset and map will include the potential impact of climate change on flood risk and coastal erosion , and will help to inform how we well protect home , business , farmland and infrastructure along our coastal community . I call the shadow Minister . we learn from the Public Accounts Committee report that 500 flood defence project have be cancel , just like the one in Lowestoft . whether the Minister choose to use the word " cancel , " " defer , " " delay " or " on a long list " make no difference , because he be still refuse to tell we where those project be . why do he insist on hold resident in contempt by not tell they the fate of their local flood defence ? I and my official have be review the application that have be put forward , and announcement will be come very soon . the Government be invest £ 1 . 3 billion in flood defence , which be more than ever before , and we will continue to ensure that we be well protect coastal community . catchment Partnerships : fund how much fund his Department plan to provide for catchment partnership in the 2024 - 25 financial year . one hundred catchment - base approach partnership be set out in the plan for water . the catchment - base approach be exactly the right one — I agree with the decision take by my right hon . friend on that — and be exactly the approach that we be take . in the financial year , £ 15 , 000 be allocate to each catchment for that . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer . the plan for water be start to work in relation to community partnership : next week , the East Suffolk Catchments Partnership will publish the plan for the River Deben . however , could I encourage my right hon . friend to try to accelerate some of those partnership , potentially by increase the funding from £ 15 , 000 per partnership to £ 50 , 000 , so that every single partnership can have a full - time employee to really drive this action forward ? I very much agree with my right hon . friend . what we be do be twofold . first , we be increase funding : she will have see that , yesterday , we announce an uplift of £ 11 . 5 million for local community - lead project to improve river catchment . alongside that , we be look at some major intervention in catchment , such as on the River Wye , where we allocate £ 35 million . we be take a targeted approach to catchment - specific issue ; in that catchment , the issue be chicken litter . the phosphate be go into the River Wye , so we be fund anaerobic digester as a target way of take a catchment approach . Sewage have be discharge into our river for 3 . 6 million hour , include the River Thames in my constituency . funding be only part of clean up this mess : the whole water sector be break and need to be put into special measure , so what be the Secretary of State ' s long - term plan for tackle these issue , or be he content to keep follow labour ' s lead and to take up our policy ? the first thing I would mention be the £ 4 . 5 billion of investment in the Thames tideway tunnel over the past eight year , which be go to significantly improve the water quality of the River Thames . alongside that , we be step up inspection , with a fourfold increase in inspection ; we be tackle bonus in company that be guilty of pollution ; and we be take much tough enforcement action , with the big ever prosecution of water firm by the Environment Agency . a whole range of action , couple with the plan for water , be bring additional investment into the sector and take a catchment by catchment approach . Air Quality what recent progress his Department have make on improve air quality . what step his Department be take to help reduce air pollution . we be drive down emission and concentration of the most harmful air pollutant , reduce their impact on public health and the environment . through the Environment Act 2021 , we introduce further legal target for fine particulate matter . we have allocate £ 883 million to support local authority , and air pollution have fall significantly since 2010 , with emission of nitrogen oxide down by 48 % , PM2 . 5 down by 24 % , and sulphur dioxide down by 74 % . give that incinerator capacity far outweighs waste , I welcome the Government ' s decision to introduce a short - term pause in the determination of application for environmental permit for certain type of waste incineration facility . will the Minister please now extend that pause beyond its current official end date of 24 May and include exist incinerator that have apply to increase their capacity ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s question . our assessment of incineration capacity and need be ongoing — I do not want to prejudge the outcome of that work or any of the next step — but the Government be clear that propose waste incineration facility must not result in overcapacity or compromise our ambition to minimise waste and improve recycling . last month , my local authority of Richmond upon Thames , along with other council , be inform by DEFRA that its local air quality grant of £ 1 million — which have be award just two month early — be be rescind . give the number of area in Twickenham breach air quality standard , include area close to school , and with World Health Organisation target become ever more stringent , how do the Minister think he be meet his commitment to " expand the resource available to council to improve air quality " ? I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s question , which give we the opportunity to highlight the great progress we be make in this area . we want to continue to make progress and support local authority , but we do have concern that the local air quality scheme be not deliver the most positive outcome , and some of the bid that be come forward be not aim at improve air quality : we have bid for a robotic chatbot and for a kinetic art project . we want to focus on improve air quality and make sure we be fund local authority to do just that . Serious Dog Injuries Register : Dog Groomers if he will take step to implement a dog groomer charter mark that include a register of serious injury for dog . under the Animal Welfare Act 2006 , groomer must protect dog under their control from harm and provide for their welfare need . where that Act be breach , offender face imprisonment or an unlimited fine . as the legislation be already clear , we do not have any plan at the moment to implement a charter . a constituent recently bring quite a distressing case to my office . a routine trip to the dog groomer ' s turn into a disaster for her beloved pet . the dog be seriously injure due to the groomer use incorrect equipment , result in painful laceration , multiple veterinary visit and permanent scarring . unfortunately , that be not an isolated case . I be aware that , as the Minister say , the Animal Welfare Act provide some framework in relation to intentional harm , but I be amazed at the lack of regulation in the industry . will the Minister make an assessment of what further legislative step can be take to regulate the dog groom industry and ensure the safety of all dog ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this case , and obviously I sympathise with his constituent whose pet suffer that poor practice . the Government ' s belief in the importance of animal welfare underpin the strong protection include in the Animal Welfare Act , and we will take step to address widespread welfare issue where they arise . Waste Incineration Plant Capacity what assessment he have make of the adequacy of ( a ) operational and ( b ) consent waste incineration plant capacity . official be currently assess plan residual waste treatment capacity , include incineration , against expected future residual waste arise in England , so that we can understand our future capacity need follow the implementation of key commitment in the resource and waste strategy . this capacity assessment will be publish in due course . my North West Norfolk constituent welcome the moratorium on new waste incinerator and the review , but give that the incinerator already operate and those with consent provide enough capacity as we meet legally bind target to halve residual waste , may I urge the Minister to make that temporary pause permanent so that we do not have to have an unnecessary and unwanted incinerator in Wisbech ? defra official be currently scope the need for a review of the role of waste incineration facility , and I do not want to prejudge the conclusion of that exercise . the current pause period will end on 24 May , and the next step will be announce no later than that date . Animal Welfare what step his Department be take to help improve animal welfare . this Government remain absolutely committed to implement our action plan for animal welfare . since the action plan be publish in 2021 , we have make significant progress on a whole raft of animal welfare measure , such as introduce tough sentence on animal cruelty and new law on animal sentience , bring forward legislation to ban live export and keep primate as pet , launch the animal health and welfare pathway , ensure the microchipping of cat , and back critical legislation to crack down on puppy smuggling , pet abduction and livestock worrying . I be grateful for that answer and , indeed , for all the animal welfare measure that this Government have introduce . recently , pupil in Larch class at Three Bridges Primary School write to I very eloquently about their concern for the welfare and protection of endanger specie . can the Minister say a little more about what her Department be do in that respect ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and indeed for his own work on animal welfare in this place , which have be impressive . I also thank the pupil of Larch class at Three Bridges Primary School . he can go back and tell they that this Government be absolutely committed to tackle this and to help endanger specie . we be actually the first Government to legislate to halt specie decline in this country — as far as I know , no other country have do that anywhere in the world — and we have fund to save specie . they might also like to hear about otter return to our river , about save red kite by protect they from persecution , about save the chalk hill blue butterfly and more . fly - tipping what step his Department be take to support local authority to tackle fly - tipping . what step his Department be take to support local authority to tackle fly - tipping . nationally , fly - tipping on public land have fall for the second year in a row , with enforcement action up by 5 % , but we all know the huge detrimental impact that fly - tipping can have on our community . fly - tip fine have more than double , and we be now expect local authority to reinvest that income in enforcement and clean up our street . we be go far with reform on how waste carrier be regulate , with the introduction of digital waste tracking to help local authority continue to crack down on waste crime . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . what landowner and the public want be for this to stop . I realise that we have double the fine — we have massively increase they again — but may I suggest that all case should be prosecute and that prosecution should be publicise widely , both to reassure victim and to deter perpetrator ? I could not agree more ; promote the conviction absolutely reassure victim that the Government and local authority be take tough action . I know that my hon . friend have particular concern about what be happen across the countryside , and DEFRA be fund the national rural crime unit to explore the police ' s role in tackle fly - tipping and how that can be optimise , work with local authority to deal with this crime . fly - tipping be a concern for many local resident across Uxbridge and South Ruislip . I would like to pay tribute to Mary in Yiewsley , Bernie in South Ruislip , Wendy in Cowley and Donna from Ruislip Gardens , who all act as community champion in report regular fly - tipping . I also need to mention the waste service team at Hillingdon Council , who work tirelessly in respond to regular case of fly - tipping . however , all of this great work from resident and the council can only go so far , so what further funding and support be available specifically to target fly - tipping hotspot ? we have provide nearly £ 1 . 2 million to help local authority combat fly - tipping , and our grant be focus on hotspot where they have fund around 200 CCTV camera , plus other infrastructure include fencing , signage and mobile tip . a furth £ 1 million be due to be release shortly , which will help far tackle these hotspot . I pay tribute to Mary , Wendy and all my hon . friend ' s constituent who be get involve in help he . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since last update the House , we have remain focused on deliver our plan to improve food security , on improve our water quality , and on lead the way , both at home and abroad , in protect the environment . that be why we be introduce legislation to ban the supply and sale of wet wipe contain plastic . it be why we have launch , as part of our catchment plan , the £ 35 million scheme on the River Wye , far to our announcement yesterday of £ 11 . 5 million in water company fine and penalty to be reinveste in water restoration scheme . we be work on Dartmoor to implement the very good recommendation set out in David Fursdon ' s report , and we have see over 20 , 000 farmer now sign up to the sustainable farming incentive , make it the most popular scheme ever . alongside that , we be work at the G7 , on bluetongue virus and in many other respect , but I can see , Mr Speaker , that you want I to speed up my reply . I want to get your colleague in . I call Th é r è se Coffey . the Environment Act 2021 be landmark legislation , and we of course need to think not only locally but globally . one element of that legislation be the introduction of forest risk commodity regulation . I would be grateful if my right hon . Friend say what more we can do through our global supply chain measure . my right hon . friend be right to focus on forest risk commodity : our flagship announcement at COP28 be that we be take lead action on that . many who have watch nature documentary , for example on the orangutan , can see how important that be to particular specie . I hope to table legislation on that later this month , but my right hon . friend be right to focus on its importance . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the environmental regulator have today condemn the disgusting state of our waterway cause by the Conservatives let water company pump they full of raw sewage . this have to stop , so will the Government now back Labour ' s plan and make water boss personally criminally liable , so that if they keep illegally dump sewage , they end up in the dock ? we already have the big ever prosecution by the Environment Agency , which be already live . we have also already ban bonus for those company guilty of serious pollution . we be quadruple the number of inspection as part of that tough enforcement scheme . we be also bring record investment into the water industry . the hon . Gentleman never comment on the quality of water in Wales , but perhaps he will want to address that in his follow - up question . we will try Lincolnshire : I call Sir Edward Leigh . in response to my early question , the Secretary of State say that food security be of urgent national concern . have any Agriculture Minister ever meet a farmer who have deny that 3b land be just as good for grow arable crop as 3a land ? my right hon . friend the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries be extremely well place to speak about the quality of land and how it pay , give that he himself farm . we recognise that this be part of a wide debate about the clustering of solar site on farm - land . we also recognise the importance of food security . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) can see the shift in focus to our environmental scheme that align with food security , because I believe that food security be instrumental to our national security , and that also affect our land use . an Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee report publish last year recommend that we support the request of the United Nations special rapporteur on the right to food to undertake a country visit to the UK before the end of 2023 . the Government initially indicate that they would facilitate that , but the Minister ' s late correspondence to I state that it will not be feasible to invite the special rapporteur this year . why be that not feasible before the general election ? the UN be ready and wait . I be happy to look at the specific issue that the hon . Gentleman raise in relation to the UN , but we be clear about the importance of food production , food security and back our farmer . it be leave - wing council around the country that be ban meat and act contrary to the interest of many of our farmer . what can be do to improve compensation payment for cattle farmer follow a TB outbreak ? we be constantly work with those farmer face the misery of a TB outbreak . I be aware of an outbreak in my hon . friend ' s constituency in Leicestershire , which be very painful for the individual farmer concern . that be why we must throw everything we can at this terrible disease — every tool in the toolbox — to try to stop TB spread across England . I be so old that I grow up in a land without plastic ; a well Britain wrap in brown paper and string . last year , our household on this small island handle 90 , 000 million tonne of plastic . it be indestructible — it can not be burn and we can not get rid of it . will the Minister support the global plastic treaty campaign for by Greenpeace and other ? this Government be take action on plastic . let I give the hon . Gentleman a specific example : there have be a 93 % reduction in the use of plastic bag as a result of measure that this Government have introduce . if he look at the communiqu é from the G7 in Turin , he will see that the Government be support action on plastic , build on the work announce from Ottawa last week . many community in my constituency face the double whammy of coastal tidal flooding and fluvial river flooding . we have see significant investment in place such as Par and St Blazey through the StARR project — St Austell Bay Resilient Regeneration — which the Minister have be to see . we have recently complete flood defence at Pentewan , but the village of Mawgan Porth remain vulnerable to both river and coastal flooding , and I can not get any real progress in develop a scheme to reduce flood risk there . will the Minister meet I to look at what we can do to protect Mawgan Porth ? have be to Cornwall to meet my hon . friend and see the StARR project for myself , I be more than happy to meet to discuss what more we can do , because I know that he and his colleague on the local council be champion this scheme as much as they can , and I be more than happy to help . the sun may be shine today , but it have be a long , cold , wet spring for our farmer . give the prediction that 17 % of crop will be lose , what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the number of farming business that will reluctantly stop produce food ? how will he ensure that the farmer flood fund reach all the farmer who desperately need it ? the hon . Lady raise an extremely valid point , and it be a share concern across the House . everyone can see the impact of the wet weather . that be why we be continually engage with the sector . we have the farm to fork summit as part of that engagement , and we be look at what easement can be grant in scheme such as the sustainable farming incentive , but also more widely . I will have more to say on that shortly . Southport have see million of pound of investment into drainage capacity for water , but unfortunately the village of Tarleton , Hesketh Bank and Banks have not . these farming community have be devastate by flood . the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries meet I and my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) last year , which be appreciate by farmer , but more need to be do . a report have be submit to the Department . we want to set up an internal drainage board . what more can be do to make sure that be do at pace to help these community ? as I touch on early , I be a huge supporter of the work of our internal drainage board . they do a superb job , which be why the Minister for Water and Rural Growth , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , decide to allocate an additional £ 75 million . we will look constructively at what more can be do in more area through the focus of drainage board . my hon . friend will have see that we have already flex our regulation in response to Storm Henk , for example , and we be look at what further thing we can do . Brexit have be a disaster for farmer across the United Kingdom , but at least in Scotland they have the certainty of funding go out beyond 2027 , unlike in labour - run Wales and Tory - run England . what step will the Government take to provide the same level of surety for english farmer that the SNP have deliver for Scotland ' s farmer ? as a former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , I think the suggestion that the way the SNP allocate its Barnett consequential give farmer fund certainty be a somewhat bold claim . the point with Brexit be that we can tailor our response to the need of our farmer , whether through specific legislation such as that on gene edit to develop disease and drought - resistant crop , our procurement legislation so that we well leverage our public sector procurement and our labelling legislation so that we can support british producer , as well as through scheme such as the SFI , which be the most popular ever run by DEFRA , with more than 20 , 000 farmer now sign up . in the past , flood from the Lady brook and Micker brook , which run through Bramhall , Cheadle Hulme and Cheadle to join the River Mersey , have cause devastation to home and family . do my hon . friend agree that joint work across the region be part of the solution ? will he continue his support for the upper Mersey catchment partnership work ? my hon . friend have raise that specific case with I before . I be more than happy to meet she to have those conversation at speed , because I know just how valuable project such as flood alleviation scheme be to her constituent in well protect more home . North West Leicestershire have benefit enormously from be the heart of the national forest , with million of tree plant over the past 40 year , much of which be on degraded former colliery land . as desirable as tree planting be , that must be balance against food security . do the Minister agree that good agricultural land must be protect to produce good food ? I must first commend the national forest for all that it have achieve . many farmer be involve in that forest , too . that be why the Forestry Commission ' s map show the good place for tree planting be so important , and that be not on what we call well available land , for which we have specify that the main priority be food production . Attorney General the Attorney General be ask — violence against Women and girl : prosecution rate what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . tackle violence against woman and girl be a priority for the Government . I recently visit CPS Thames and Chiltern to hear specifically about the work it be do to combat stalk . I also hear how the domestic abuse joint justice plan will transform how we investigate this all - too - frequent crime . datum from the Crown Prosecution Service show that despite an increase in the number of referral from the police for domestic abuse , both charge rate and prosecution have decrease in the last quarter . in Bath , the Southside project , Voices , and Somerset and Avon Rape and Sexual Abuse Support all support those affect by domestic abuse and sexual violence , but we can not rely on charity to do the heavy lifting . do the Attorney General agree that if we want the public to have confidence in the system , increase reporting should lead to increase number of prosecution ? yes . it be always difficult to talk with pleasure about increase number of prosecution , because all the survivor of those act have go through a horrible event for a prosecution to take place , but I agree with the hon . Lady that it be generally a good sign that prosecution number be go up . I be pleased to say that they be go up in her area for adult rape case . there be more to do on domestic abuse case , which be why we be focus specifically on the domestic abuse joint justice plan . the work of the charity in her region , which I should say be fund by but independent of Government — that be what survivor prefer — will really help we to ensure that those survivor get justice . the Attorney General will know that the Online Safety Act 2023 be give Royal Assent at the end of last year and that , in that Act , there be various bit of legislation to protect woman and girl in relation to cyber - flashing , deepfake and revenge porn . will she set out for the House how many prosecution have take place under that new , important piece of legislation that be try to protect more woman and girl from those other form of violence ? I be afraid that I do not have to hand specific figure for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency under that Act , but I be happy to get they for he . we be confident that it will be possible to bring prosecution under the Act . these be important and distressing but relatively new crime , and it be important that we continue to work with the police and the CPS to prosecute novel area of criminal activity . it be really difficult for survivor of these crime to deal with they . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the Attorney General rightly refer to the work do in relation to domestic violence . the most serious offence of violence against woman and girl be rape and serious sexual offence . as she will know , there be concern that once victim have come forward , there be delay in their case be hear , largely because of the difficulty in get suitably experience barrister to prosecute they . do she accept that one of the main driver of that be the fact that legal aid fee be increase for defence barrister , but prosecution fee have lag behind ? there be a gap of around £ 500 in the brief fee between prosecute and defend . do she agree that we must plug that gap urgently , to get suitable counsel prosecute as well as defend those case ? the Chair of the Select Committee be tempt I to step on the firm territory of the Lord Chancellor , as he well know . he also know , because he and I have discuss this many time , that the Lord Chancellor and I speak several time a week about our concern about the shortage of counsel in the criminal sphere in particular . however , I would say gently to my hon . and learn Friend that I do not think money be the only reason why it be not always attractive to prosecute RASSO case after RASSO case . they be drain case to be involve in , and they be list very tightly at the moment because of the pandemic backlog , as he mention . that lead to tension with listing and with the judiciary , which can make it very difficult to do this area of work relentlessly . I have nothing but praise for the barrister who be engage in it . Crown Prosecution Service and Police Services : Joint Working what recent step she have take to increase joint working between the Crown Prosecution Service and police service . close and collaborative work across the criminal justice system be key to secure justice for victim , hold offender to account and keep the public safe . the police and the CPS have invest heavily in new way of working , include through the national operating model for rape prosecution , with the result that the police and the CPS work more closely together at an early stage in prosecution . during a recent visit to Greater Manchester police ' s divisional headquarters in Stockport I hear that there can be significant delay between send a case to the CPS and receive a charge decision back . to solve that , it be suggest that have CPS staff base inside the station would speed up the process and improve communication . what consideration have my hon . and learn Friend give to a CPS presence in police station , and will he work with I and Stockport division to facilitate a trial ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this extremely pertinent point . she be right to emphasise the importance of early co - operation between the police and the CPS . at a visit last month to Charing Cross police station I consider precisely that point . there be a buddy system there , with CPS lawyer work with police officer , which be improve case file quality . we be actively explore how to ensure close early work with the CPS and the police , and I will look at Stockport with she . the United Kingdom Government be go above and beyond to ensure that british arm be readily available in Israel ' s arsenal to bomb Gaza . the Attorney General be refuse to give out the legal advice , base on the long - stand Law officer ’ convention , yet the circumstance for up to 1 . 6 million people be now between life and death . what step be she take to ensure that Britain be not complicit in the destruction of a nation and its people ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the Attorney General keep all these matter under close review , and will ensure that any legal advice be properly obtain and act upon . Royal Albert Hall : Governance if she will refer the governance of the Royal Albert Hall to the first - tier tribunal ( charity ) . the Royal Albert Hall be one of our most important cultural institution . there be long - stand difference between the trustee of the Hall and the charity commissioner over governance matter . I really hope that the party will work together to resolve their difference without expensive litigation and I stand absolutely ready to facilitate those discussion . the Attorney General , in she — I must say excellent — recent letter on the matter , express her " disappointment " that the Royal Albert Hall Bill " be not more ambitious " and " that the constitution of the Corporation of the Hall of Arts and Sciences give rise to a potential conflict between the private interest of seat - hold trustee and the Corporation ' s charitable object . " I totally agree . she have say that she will look at this issue but , unlike her predecessor , will she please also consider , if she need to , refer the matter to the charity tribunal , so it can be settle once and for all ? ticket to attend one of our country ' s most famous and treasured venue should not be turn up on notorious ticket website like Viagogo , and those who be receive ill - get gain should not be run the charity . the hon . Lady take a very close interest in these matter and be , I believe , the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse . I really commend she for her work in this important area . many of we who be great supporter of the Albert Hall be concern by ticket cost . I be hopeful , as I say , that the two party can continue to work together . I want to avoid expensive litigation if that can be do . a previous Attorney General be ask permission to refer the matter to the first - tier tribunal . I have not be ask by the Charity Commission to do so . I be very hopeful that this matter can be resolve amicably and I be very happy to remain involved if that be helpful . woman and Children ' s Safety Online what recent step the Crown Prosecution Service have take to help keep woman and child safe online . the CPS take the issue of keep woman and child safe online extremely seriously . I be pleased to report that the CPS have deliver the first conviction for cyber - flashing within week of the new offence become law . this be an important milestone for protect woman and girl online , and demonstrate how the Government have work to put perpetrator behind bar . I thank my hon . and learn Friend for that answer . in addition to the good work he be do to help prevent online bullying , trolling and abuse , keep safe online include help to prevent fraud . will he detail how the Government , through the online fraud charter , be ensure that tech company help woman and child ? my hon . friend be quite right to draw attention to the online fraud charter — a world first — which sit under the Online Safety Act 2023 . twelve of the big tech company be work together to reduce fraud on their platform . the signatory be agree to undertake certain measure within six month , such as block , report and take - down , to ensure that the vulnerable — such as child be exploit as money mule — be protect online . crime while protest : prosecution what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Crown Prosecution Service in prosecute people that have commit crime while protest . non - threaten peaceful protest be fundamental , but those right be not absolute and they must be balance with the right and freedom of other . the CPS work closely with the police to ensure that those who commit offence during protest be bring to justice and our street be keep safe . indeed , just last month the CPS successfully prosecute a protester under the Terrorism Act 2000 after he wear a Hamas headband to a pro - palestine rally . the Minister rightly point out that there be a clear balance between democratic peaceful protest and the tactic use by the like of just stop Oil to disrupt society . we have see mass protest , mostly peaceful , on the London street , but we do see damage , such as that to the Ministry of Defence , which be completely unacceptable . how do the new law that we have pass in Parliament aid the prosecution of those who be not interested in peaceful protest ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this extremely pertinent and concern point . the police already have a full suite of power under section 4A of the Public Order Act 1986 — as well as some relate to criminal damage , the offence to which he refer . to ensure that they act , the Government have , however , reinforce those power under the Public Order Act 2023 . the Crown Prosecution Service be work closely with the police in , for instance , provide round - the - clock charging advice nationally . my hon . friend be right : it be unacceptable that those who be take part in legitimate democratic process commit criminal damage , and it be also utterly unacceptable that , for example , jewish people feel threatened . the Government expect the full power available to the police to be use so that offender can be prosecute . International Humanitarian Law : Israel - Palestine conflict what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on compliance with international humanitarian law in relation to the Israel - Palestine conflict . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on compliance with international humanitarian law in relation to the Israel - Palestine conflict . as all member know , the Law officer ’ convention mean that I can not disclose outside Government whether or not I have provide advice , or the specific of such advice , but it be no secret that we continue to call for international humanitarian law to be respect and for civilian to be protect . it be more than three month since the International Court of Justice issue its interim ruling on the Gaza conflict and set out step that Israel must take in order to protect civilian life . the Netanyahu Government have , as yet , fail to comply with that ruling , but our Government have still not come out publicly and urge they to do so . will the Attorney General take the opportunity today to call on Israel to take the step order by the Court ? this government firmly respect the role and the independence of the ICJ . its ruling , or order , call for the immediate release of the hostage and refer to the need to get more aid into Gaza , and that be exactly what the Government be also call for . the ICJ ruling also declare that there be a " plausible right " to be protect from genocide , and follow the urgent question to the Deputy Foreign Secretary on Tuesday I cite United Nations international law relate to that . when there be concern about a potential genocide take place , those be the circumstance in which the sale of arm should be withdraw . can the Attorney General tell I , and my constituent — as this be a massive issue for thousand of people across the country — exactly when the Government will come out and recognise both international law and the risk that we take in breach it ? this Government believe very firmly in international law . on 9 April , the Foreign Secretary announce that our position on export licence be unchanged . we publish datum on our export licensing decision transparently and on a quarterly basis . I call the shadow Attorney General . we have hear question about the International Court of Justice , but I want ask some question about the International Criminal Court . its chief prosecutor say last week that " all attempt to impede , intimidate , or improperly influence " the Court over its investigation of war crime in Gaza must " cease immediately " . he be force to issue that demand after a letter sign by 12 United States senator warn the ICC : " target Israel and we will target you . " that letter threaten sanction not just against the ICC ' s official , but against its employee , associate and family . will the Attorney General join I in condemn those republican senator for their outrageous action ? will she also join the chief prosecutor in agree that anyone who threaten the ICC simply for do its job be undermine the very impartiality and independence on which its international mandate depend ? I think that the ICC ' s statement be worthy of note , and I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for bring it to the House ' s attention . in his statement , the independent prosecutor be also keen to point out that he welcome active engagement by government and other party on the work in which he be clearly engage around the world to ensure that international humanitarian law be respect and war crime be not committed . he be a british prosecutor , and we in this Government be proud to work with he ; we have be very proud to support he in his work in Ukraine , for example . there be ongoing investigation of what be go on in Israel and Gaza by more than one international court at present , and I think it be difficult to speculate on specific outcome . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Attorney General will be aware of the Government ' s ground of defence in the ongoing case of Al - Haq v . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , in which the fcdo lawyer admit that the " inability to come to a clear assessment on Israel ' s record of compliance " with international humanitarian law " pose significant policy risk " . what be the Attorney General ' s assessment of that submission ? give the fcdo ' s concern about Israel ' s compliance with IHL , what have she say to her Cabinet colleague who be worried that the issuing of arm export licence could make the UK Government complicit in breach of international humanitarian law and the arm trade treaty ? as the hon . Gentleman know , I can not give my specific legal advice . I can not share that with the House — it be for the Government alone — but I can say that the Foreign Secretary have review the most recent advice from the IHL cell . that have inform his decision that there be not a clear risk that the item export from the UK might be use to commit or facilitate a serious violation of IHL . it leave our position on export licence unchanged , but that position be keep under review . Fraud and Economic Crime what step she be take to prosecute perpetrator of fraud and economic crime . last year , the Government publish a new fraud strategy to combat fraud and economic crime , and the Corporate Transparency Act 2023 receive Royal Assent . last month , the Serious Fraud Office publish its strategy for the next five year , which be focus on tech , intelligence gathering and enforcement . in fact , I be pleased to report to the House that on Friday the SFO secure the conviction of former investment manager David Kennedy for his part in a £ 100 million investment fraud , in which hundred of people lose their saving . fraud be prevalent . in fact , it account for a third of all crime commit in this country , and increasingly we be see online scam . vulnerable people often get catch up in phishe scheme . will the Government consider set up an online crime agency to clamp down specifically on online crime , which will become more prevalent with the use of artificial intelligence ? the hon . member be absolutely right . this be a particularly pernicious crime . it often target the vulnerable and , sadly , in an interconnected and digital world , it be likely to increase . we will look very closely at all such matter . a number of joint strategy be share between agency in any event , but I be certainly very happy to look at her suggestion . I call the shadow Minister . there be 36 fail personal protective equipment contract during the pandemic , cost over £ 1 billion , but only one company , PPE Medpro , have be name . if the Government be serious about tackle fraud , why be they refuse to disclose the detail of the other company ? how exactly be those contract award , and can the Solicitor General update the House on how many prosecution be pende ? the hon . Member quite rightly raise a matter of particular concern to he , and indeed to the whole House . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs remain committed to covid - 19 scheme compliance , and will continue to prioritise the most serious case of abuse . specifically on prevention and recovery , up to 30 September 2023 , HMRC have prevent the payment , or recover the overpayment , of over £ 1 . 6 billion - worth of grant , make up of £ 430 million that be prevent from be pay out and over £ 1 . 2 billion that be recover from overpayment . by 30 September 2023 , HMRC have open 51 criminal investigation into suspect fraud within the scheme , and make a total of 80 arrest . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for next week will include : Monday 13 May — motion to approve the draft Procurement Regulations 2024 , follow by motion to approve the draft Agriculture ( Delinked Payments ) ( reduction ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , follow by debate on a motion on the risk - base exclusion of member of Parliament . Tuesday 14 May — motion to approve the draft Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( Amendment of Schedule A2 ) Order 2024 , follow by motion to approve the draft code of practice on fair and transparent distribution of tip , follow by general debate on War Graves Week . Wednesday 15 May — remain stage of the Criminal Justice Bill ( day one ) . Thursday 16 May — debate on a motion on the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman report on woman ' s state pension age . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 17 May — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 20 May include : Monday 20 May — general debate . subject to be confirm . Tuesday 21 May — if necessary , consideration of Lords message to the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill , follow by consideration in Committee and remain stage of the Holocaust Memorial Bill , follow by motion relate to the High Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill . I be pleased to join the Leader of the House this week to launch a guide for member and candidate , co - ordinated by the Antisemitism Policy Trust , on tackle conspiracy theory . although the existence of conspiracy theory be nothing new , their reach , risk and repercussion be ever increase . I encourage colleague to read this important guide . I welcome my new hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) . he be the first person from Blackpool to represent Blackpool in over 60 year . have campaign with he for year , I be now proud to call he my hon . friend . I know that his former boss , and our good friend , Tony Lloyd would be thrill and proud , too . I also welcome two more member to Labour , my hon . friend the Members for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) and for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) . our reach into previously undiscovered support be much broad and deep than I ever imagine . talk of which , we understand that Conservative Members be all troop over to no . 10 yesterday for a presentation and briefing on how they do not really lose the local election after all . perhaps we could have a debate on what the local election result tell we . it might help to inject a little bit of reality into their thinking , because they can not cure something if they be in complete denial about it . which part of the message that voter express do their tin ear not hear this time ? the third big swing since the second world war in a parliamentary by - election ? lose the York and North Yorkshire mayoral election in the Prime Minister ' s own backyard ? labour take Rushmoor , the home of the british Army ? or lose one of their more successful elect representative , Andy Street , in the west midland ? if they can not hear the message now , they will have a stark awakening at the general election . we might have all have a small laugh when the former Prime Minister forget his voter ID , yet another of his own rule that he think do not apply to he , but there be a more serious point . we also see veteran turn away from the poll because they could not use their veteran ID card . the Government have promise to add the card to the list of acceptable id . when will they do so ? I notice that there be nothing in the upcoming business on the Sentencing Bill , which be quite a surprise give that we learn this week , from a leak email to probation and prison staff , that some prisoner will be free up to 70 day early . why be the government consistently fail to bring back the Sentencing Bill so that these issue can be properly debate ? and why be they fail to publish the figure on the number and nature of prisoner who will be release early ? it be another part of their plan that be not work , be it not ? despite serious and fast - move development in Israel and Gaza , the Government , again , do not come to the House to make a statement this week . it be only through your grant an urgent question , Mr Speaker , that member could raise issue . we want an urgent ceasefire and the assault on Rafah stop . after much delay , the Government reject the Procedure Committee report on hold Lords Secretaries of State accountable , yet there be clearly widespread support across the House for its recommendation . rather than the Government simply reject they , should the Leader of the House not seek the view of this House and table a motion on the accountability of the Foreign Secretary to this House as soon as possible ? whether on the middle east , China or Ukraine , there be hugely important matter to be raise . I be pleased that the Leader of the House have finally bring forward the House of Commons Commission ' s proposal on risk - base exclusion next week . staff and those work in this place will be look carefully at what we say on Monday in the interest of their safeguarding . as we hear last night , member want proper time to debate these proposal and amendment . have she consider those call to extend the debate on the motion beyond two hour ? despite the Prime Minister ' s late set of disastrous election result , he continue to insist that his plan be work . he have his finger in his ear and be plough on as if everything be fine . it be as if there be no cost of live crisis or waiting list be not sky high , and that voter just need to see more of the " real Rishi " and listen to he well . the reality be very different : people be cry out for change . but the only thing that do not seem ever to change be that every time he face the electorate , he lose . that be not go to change , be it ? first , let I mark the fact that yesterday be VE day ; I know there will be many event go on across our constituency during the week , give we a chance to remember the debt we owe our forebear and also to think of those face conflict today . may I , too , welcome the hon . Lady ' s new colleague , the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) , to his place and pay tribute to all candidate who take part in the important election last week ? I also thank she for help I to launch the publication to which she refer . we commission it and I thank all the organisation that work on it . it be important that we combat the rise of conspiracy theory , as that be part of restore trust in what we do here and keep trust in democracy . this publication will be a useful product , not just for member , but for those who wish to come here too . I shall certainly make sure that the Lord Chancellor have hear what she say about the Sentencing Bill , although he will find her concern odd , give Labour ' s voting record on our measure to introduce tough sentence . the hon . Lady mention her new colleague , and I do hope the hon . member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) be be make to feel very welcome in her new party . I be buoy at the news that our odd of retain Dover have slightly improve since yesterday lunch time — [ Laughter . ] it be true . but I think this be a personal tragedy for the hon . member for Dover , as be what happen last week for the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) . it have expose a pattern of behaviour from the Leader of the Opposition , and it be a shame that we be not due an update to Peter Brookes ' " Nature Notes " , for the decorator crab be a specie that cover its surface area with material to disguise its true form , usually select sedentary creature and seaweed . the Leader of the Opposition be the decorator crab of these Benches , desperate to show that he be not really lead the Labour party at all . he have channel Margaret Thatcher ; his deputy have praise Boris ; he have expel the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) with great fanfare , a man he be campaign for to be Prime Minister only moment before ; and his exterior shell be stick over with St George ' s flag , his Gunners season ticket and several programme from the " last night of the Proms " . what next ? will it be a photo op with a bulldog ? will it be a lecture on how misunderstood Enoch Powell be ? should I ask the Whip on duty on the Front Bench if he have check in recently with my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) ? this be operation radish : the concerted effort to convince the british public that while the Labour party might look red on the outside , at its heart it really be not at all . even the defection from the Government Benches of one of Labour ' s stern critic can not disguise the fact that Operation Radish be not go well . not everyone have get the memo . the shadow Leader of the House talk about the important election result last week . have she notice that the first act of the new Mayor of the West Midlands be to turn his attention not to investment or infrastructure , but to Israel and Gaza ? ditto for the Mayors of West Yorkshire and London , with the latter also state " equivalence " between the Head of State of Israel and a terrorist organisation . the anti - nuke shadow Foreign Secretary be currently try to walk back from call a candidate for the presidency of the United States a neo - nazi - sympathise KKK sociopath . the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) seek to smear a decent candidate for Mayor of London as a white supremacist . object to ULEZ and you be a child killer . if you be a woman advocate for your right and dignity , you be a bigot . want to strengthen our border ? you be a racist . if you have make money through hard work , you can ' t possibly get Britain . that is today ' s Labour party — just as it have always be . the politic of the PLP be more the politic of the PLO and the JCR : more comfortable in university tent encampment and on picket line than on the international stage ; more interested in thought police than actual policing . labour have not change — not its behaviour or its record . it be still high crime rate , high waiting list , high taxis , high level of poverty , less pay , less opportunity , less money for the NHS and less freedom . the british people can see what be go on . they like their radish in salad , not in no . 10 . I call the Father of the House . my right hon . Friend indicate in provisional business for the week after next the remain stage of the Holocaust Memorial Bill . she be familiar with early - day motion 711 . [ that this House note the First Special Report of the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee , hc121 , on the problem with the current proposal and the restriction face by the Committee consider the hybrid Bill ; respect the conclusion and recommendation on page 20 ; agree with the list of matter relate to the current proposal for a Holocaust Memorial and believe these need update attention on deliverability from the Infrastructure Commission , from the National Audit Office on likely capital cost and recurrent annual cost , from the Chancellor on future funding control , and from the police and security service on maintain unfettered public access for use of Victoria Tower Gardens while protect the Memorial ; ask his Majesty ' s Government and the Holocaust Memorial Foundation agency to commission the view of the property consultant on a comparison of the current proposal by Sir David Adjaye in Victoria Tower Gardens with viable alternative , to commission the full appraisal and to hold a public consultation on the selection of site ; and far ask his Majesty ' s Government to commit to have this or an amend proposal consider first by the local planning authority before consider whether to call in the application , note that an open - minded observer could doubt another minister in the Levelling up department should be ask to make an independent decision on an application by the Secretary of State . ] will she arrange , at least seven day before the House return to the Holocaust Memorial Bill , for there to be answer to the question on recurrent cost , the total capital cost , the amount of money go to education and how much the cost of the project have rise in the last year ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . as I always do , I shall ensure that the Ministers in charge of the Bill have hear his specific request and that the business manager take his ask into account . I call the SNP spokesperson . first , may I say on behalf of my party and in the spirit of congenial politic , lead by our new First Minister and all our independence - minded Ministers , how delighted I be to see the Leader of the House still in her place after her party ' s catastrophic result in England ? they be not catastrophic enough to mobilise her pm for pm rebel , apparently . with her weekly ill - inform comment about Scotland , she be an extraordinary recruiting sergeant for independence and I be sure she will not disappoint today . may I warmly welcome the launch by the Leader of the House this week of the guide to recognise conspiracy theory , such as those around 5 g mast and 15 - minute city ? it will be useful reading for some of the member on her own Benches , and perhaps those on Labour ' s increasingly busy right wing . give the Leader of the House ' s personal interest , and what be suppose to be a central role of this House in protect democracy and protect we , will she be press for a wide debate on disinformation and the malign influence of secretive social medium group that perpetuate these damaging myth ? I be think , for example , of the 36 so - call grassroots Facebook group that I raise with the Prime Minister last week . they be forum full of vile racism , conspiracy theory and Islamophobic abuse of Sadiq Khan , all with link to Conservative party HQ staff , activist and even politician . there be reason to suspect similar group be quietly spread their poison across the UK , include in Scotland . do the Leader of the House agree that this need to be investigate and bring to light , not laugh off as the Prime Minister do ? last week , I ask the Leader of the House about the chaos of the Tory trade tax — the border check that Brexit now require — or , as former Tory Ministers have call it , " that act of self - harm on the UK " . she swerve that with a boast about Brexit boost UK financial service . Brexit be do its damage to Edinburgh ' s trade and talent in that sector , too , but service be a sector not affect by the serious issue that I raise of rot food , cripple import charge , biosecurity risk , and delay and chaos at the port . the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House might be content to ignore the exporter and importer , the farmer and the fisher , whose business have suffer while she pretend that all be well on the Brexit front , but my party and I be not . so I ask again : when can we put the record straight — after last week ' s twaddle — and have a debate in Government time on the ruinous impact of Brexit all across the economy ? first , may I rejoice at the news that the Scottish Government no long have a Minister for Independence ? I be wait this morning , Mr Speaker , to discover why that would be my fault , but the hon . Lady do not raise it . I wish to place on record my thank to the former First Minister for his service . I know that there be many who would kick a man when he be down , but I be not one of they ; he have do his good . some say that he have be the bad SNP leader of all time . I say , no . not only have he manage not to be arrest , but other SNP leader make his record look pretty stellar — the new First Minister , for example . I also welcome he to his post . in all seriousness , I welcome the hon . Lady ' s support for the education pamphlet on conspiracy theory . that be very important , as such theory be a real threat not just to democracy , but to the wellbeing of our constituent . they be a form of radicalisation , they be spread and we must do everything we can to combat they . the hon . Lady return to the issue of the border operating model . as she would expect , I have pay great attention to what be actually go on . there remain little sign of disruption to border flow as a result of the change , and volume of trade appear to be at the level expect . the IT system be work as they should , and although , as I say last week , there have be some minor issue to resolve , there be nothing fundamental . I would be very happy to facilitate a deep briefing for she or any of her colleague on that matter if it would be of interest . our export be now at record level . we have become , as I have say , the fourth large exporter overall , and we be the large net exporter of financial and insurance service in the world . I be sorry that the hon . Lady still do not seem to recognise the importance of that to her own constituency . I think that be something to celebrate , so I ask she to focus on the reality of what be go on and the opportunity that sit there for her constituent . today , we have have the excellent news that Harrow have be allocate Government funding for a new special educational need school — something that have be campaign for by the Conservative - run council , the official and the teacher and parent of Harrow for a considerable length of time . I be sure that my right hon . friend will join I in congratulate all those responsible on obtain this . can we have a debate in Government time on the brilliant work that our teacher and support staff do in special educational need environment , in very challenging circumstance , with a lot of very challenging child ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all the work that he be do to ensure that his constituent have the provision that they need . we have have a huge uplift in the general teaching staff ; there be now 30 , 000 more teacher than when we come to office . obviously , we have also be expand special educational need provision , but the need be grow and we be determined to keep pace with that . I think that a debate on the subject would be welcome by many in the House , and I encourage he to apply for it in the usual way . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for the business statement and for announce the Backbench Business debate for Thursday 16 May . if award time on 23 May , we would propose debate on UK arm export to Israel and on pothole and highway maintenance . those would be the two debate immediately before the Whitsun recess . although all chamber slot until the Whitsun recess be now pre - allocate , we would still welcome application for Thursday debate in Westminster Hall , where the new time seem to be work quite well . can we have a debate in Government time on the vexed question of leasehold reform ? in my constituency , developer be sell , or propose to sell , package of property freehold to third - party company and deny leaseholder themselves the chance to buy the freehold of the property that they live in . this be a really complex legal question , but an awful lot of leaseholder do not have the wherewithal to fight the property development company and third - party company buy such investment portfolio . Taylor Wimpey be a company with an interest in development in my constituency that be currently do this . can we have a debate in Government time to try to sort out this vex question ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his helpful advert for the Backbench Business Committee . he raise the very important matter of a particular aspect of leasehold . he will know that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be very focused on these issue . if the hon . Gentleman want to give I specific example , I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear the detail of his case . the Leader of the House may be aware that Hastings , St Leonards and some surround village suffer the consequence of a burst water main over the bank holiday weekend , deprive ten of thousand of resident and business of run water , and impact Hastings ' famous and amazing Jack in the Green weekend and May day celebration . while Southern Water act promptly in find and fix the leak — and I thank the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) for their huge support — can we have a debate about invest in water infrastructure , include build new reservoir and maintain exist infrastructure , and the impact of age infrastructure on water supply reliability ? I be very sorry to hear about the situation that affect my hon . friend ' s constituent so adversely . she will know that the infrastructure plan that be under way to modernise our waste water system and other water system be the large infrastructure project of its type in the world . she can follow the progress of that infrastructure plan on Water UK ' s website . in particular , the plan on combat storm overflow be there for the general public to see . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have hear the particular case that she raise . she will know how to apply for a debate in the usual way . yesterday be the 79th anniversary of VE Day , but the RAF ' s photographic reconnaissance unit have never be recognise for its contribution to ally success . the spitfire aa810 project be seek a commemoration of the unit ' s covert operation , and I be work with Southwark News to try to trace the four Southwark crew : Frederick James , William Fisher , Frederick Legon and Lesley Baker . can we please have time to debate the ongoing need for formal recognition of the PRU and its courageous crew , especially give that half of they pay the ultimate sacrifice for our victory in world war two ? hear , hear ! I thank the hon . Gentleman — I be sure I do so on behalf of the whole House , give the response to his question . it be a very important thing that he be do , and I will certainly use all the communication channel available to I to get the name of the people from the particular crew that he be try to trace . it be right that we set the record straight on that . I be at the RAF Club early this week and get to meet some veteran from Bomber Command , particularly Colin Bell , the Mosquito pilot . we have to ensure that their legacy be understand for generation to come . I be sure that I speak for everyone in the House when I say that anything that we can do to assist the hon . gentleman in this important campaign shall be do . I be aware that the Leader of the House have be celebrate Portsmouth ' s elevation to the championship this season . last year in Ipswich we celebrate our promotion to the championship , and right now we be celebrate our back - to - back promotion to the premier league . for the first time in over 20 year , the Tractor Boys will be in the premier league , in the big time — arguably the single big boost to the town for over 20 year . will she join I in congratulate Kieran McKenna , our exceptional manager , Mark Ashton , the chief executive of the club , and the whole team at Ipswich Town , who be passionate about not just the club but the town ? I wish they all the good for the premier league next season . who know ? maybe Portsmouth will be there the year after . on behalf of we all , I congratulate Ipswich Town on this huge achievement . it be great for the fan , but it will also be great for the whole of Ipswich , because these achievement bring economic and social progress , and many other thing . I think that both our club be promote be an excuse for a pint — I will stand he one . seriously , congratulation to everyone there . I hope that what he say about Portsmouth come to pass . require voter ID be an additional burden that prevent people from voting and an unnecessary barrier to our democratic process , especially for those in poor community , ethnic minority and young people . in last year ' s local election , 14 , 000 people be prevent from vote because they do not have the right id at the time . can we please have a ministerial statement on the impact of the requirement for voter ID in this year ' s local and regional election ? the hon . Lady raise an important question . she know that this issue be review on a regular basis , and I will make sure the Cabinet Office have hear what she have have . even people who be against bring in this particular check to protect people ' s vote recognise that , because progress have be make in crack down on area where fraud have be particularly prevalent , such as postal voting , it be anticipate that there would be more fraud in other area . that be one reason why the check be introduce , but I will make sure the Cabinet Office have hear what she have ask . the Leader of the House will know that I have raise with she before the discrimination against people who be visually impaired , who have to pay vat on audiobook when all book be zero rate . that discrimination can not continue . we have have debate in Westminster Hall , but can we have a debate on the Floor of the House in Government time on stop this discrimination against visually impair people ? my right hon . friend raise an important point and one that I have a great deal of sympathy for . I will make sure that the Chancellor have hear what he say , as the next question to the Treasury team be not until much later on , and I think that he be do a great deal of service by continue his campaign . can we have a debate on ministerial transparency ? as the Leader of the House know , ordinary mp have to register with the House any hospitality that they receive from other party within 28 day and in considerable detail . however , under the scheme that she still favour , Ministers have an exemption and they do not have to publish anything for several month or provide detail at all . she say repeatedly in this House that she would , by last summer , ensure that there be a parallel system for Ministers so that they be not be treat differently from mps . that still have not happen , so when will it happen ? can the Leader of the House also explain the retrograde step we seem to have take now ? for instance , in the past we learn that the then Home Secretary register through the Department that she have go to a Bond premiere because bond exercise " executive function " — I note the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) laugh , because he be the one who make that point — despite the fact that bond be obviously a fictional character . now , ministerial Departments be publish the bare detail . they do not even say what the ticket be for . could the Leader of the House , for instance , explain to we what her lunch with Saints and Sinners be all about ? I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman , who be normally a stickler for detail , have not notice that I have be report my return monthly since the start of this year . they be not very exciting , but they be report monthly , and I think other Departments be also able to do that . I do a speech at the Saints and Sinners Club for charity . two charity benefit from it , and they be in my entry in the parliamentary Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I know he be keen on this issue and have campaign on it for a long time . of course , people do make mistake — he himself be adrift two year in register an overseas visit — but I be in favour of parity between ministerial reporting and Parliament — why aren ' t you do it ? I be , and I have be do that since the start of this year — [ interruption . ] I have . may we have a debate on pothole ? [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] in my Chipping Barnet constituency , they seem to be bad than ever . after representation from I and my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , London have be include in the Government ' s major boost for pothole fund , so we need a debate to ensure that Barnet Council use the £ 736 , 000 that it be receive over two year effectively to tackle pothole and get they fill in . if there be consensus in this House on any issue , it be that we can not talk enough about pothole . an additional £ 8 . 3 billion have be allocate to council for road improvement , which be of importance to our constituent . critically , local authority must account for what they be spend that money on , and since 15 March , they have have to report against the last tranche of funding . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear my right hon . friend ' s keenness to have a debate on the matter , and she will know how to apply for one . Godiva Calling , a battle of the band competition , be take place at venue across Coventry in May and June . the competition will give some of Coventry and Warwickshire ' s rise musical talent the opportunity to perform at the city ' s now flagship music event , the Godiva Festival . successful artist win the opportunity to perform their own music on the main stage over the festival weekend in July . will the Leader of the House join I in encourage local musician to get involve in the competition , and will she arrange a debate on support for grassroots artist and on the importance of music and its ability to connect people and bring they together ? the hon . Lady make a number of point that be support by many member in the Chamber . I join she in wish everyone take part in the battle of the band a very good time , and congratulate they on make a success of what now seem a landmark event in the Coventry calendar . she will know how to apply for a debate , and I encourage she to raise the matter with the Secretary of State on 23 May . while the Prime Minister be today rightly meet university vice - chancellor to warn they of their duty of care towards jewish student , the National Union of Students have pass a so - call non - bind motion seek to expel the Union of jewish student . to ban Jews because they be jewish be pure Nazi ideology , and it give the lie , frankly , to those who claim that their anti - Zionism be not antisemitism . this issue be a national crisis and it go to the future of the rule of law in this country , and it be one of the myriad example of the grotesque antisemitism that we be see in national life . will my right hon . friend join I in call for cross - party consensus in support the Prime Minister in the work that he be rightly do with university and other to stop antisemitism on campus ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for raise this very important matter . I be pleased that the meeting between the Prime Minister , the Education Secretary and university vice - chancellor be go on today . we know from recent research that there be university that do this really well — that treasure all their student and want an environment on campus in which people can learn and live their good life . sadly , that be not happen on all campus . the conduct by the NUS , and by particular student in it , be nothing short of grotesque , and I be sure that member in all part of the House would agree on that point . it be absolutely vital that we push back against the grow trend of increase antisemitism . I think that I speak for most , if not all , hon . member when I say that we be supportive of any measure that will do that . I have always say that the Conservatives make a mistake in overlook the right hon . Lady , and she have show that again today . in that regard , can she help I with what I think be a narrow but important problem ? both Front - Bench team support the continuation of arm sale to Israel , but the great majority of Back Benchers , even on the conservative side , would like the opportunity to vote otherwise . that have be stop — stymie — in the past . I hope that she can find a way for the House to freely express its attitude to this question . the Government , and the Labour Front Benchers , might get a rude awakening and a big surprise . I thank the hon . gentleman for his concern , but I have not be overlook — I be Leader of the House of Commons . the hon . Gentleman have find the answer to his own question : he have just be able to freely express his view on this matter . as he know , there be strict rule regard our arm export , which be also scrutinise by a Select Committee of this House . that be the Government ' s policy , and if those line be breach and there be evidence of that , that policy will kick in . Wessex Fields be a large chunk of council - own land in north Bournemouth . Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council be rush through the sale of that nine acre of real estate for £ 4 million less than its independent evaluation , claim it be storage rather than employment land . this be the same council that be cut our famous annual air festival and sell off car park , public paddle pool and plant nursery , all because — it claim — there be no money , yet here it be throw away £ 4 million of local taxpayer ' money . I have write to the Secretary of State for Levelling up and to the council ' s scrutiny committee call for that decision to be investigate , but Bournemouth deserve well , so can we please have a debate on poor council decision making ? I be extremely sorry to hear about those decision in my right hon . friend ' s constituency , and I be sure many member of the House who have visit the air show previously and be very fond of Bournemouth as a consequence will also be disappoint to hear about the choice his council be make . he have do the right thing in ask the Secretary of State and the council ' s scrutiny committee to look at this issue ; I will also make sure that the Secretary of State understand its urgency , and I hope we can get some common sense . in February , after much waiting , the Secretary of State for Levelling up announce that regulation would be put in place to curb the growth of short - term holiday let . the summer season be already here ; the Secretary of State say that those regulation would be in place before the summer , so when be we go to see the necessary regulation to stop the growth in short - term holiday let , and to stop landlord come in and purchase property that should be use for family housing in place such as York ? the hon . Lady have raise this issue before . as she will know , a careful balance be need between enable economic regeneration and ensure that people can have a good , secure home and get on the property ladder . I will make sure again that the Secretary of State have hear the her request , and will ask he to update she . can we have a debate about flood resilience and sport ? I be fortunate to have in my constituency one of the most beautiful and iconic cricket ground in England : New Road , the home of Worcestershire county cricket club . previously , when that ground have be flood , I have be able to reassure colleague that it will reopen through the fantastic work of the ground staff . this year , however , it have be flood eight time , and with the increase risk of flooding as a result of climate change , the board of Worcestershire county cricket club have say that it be go to have to explore other location and opportunity . can the Leader of the House therefore support I in urge Ministers from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and from the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to work together , in order to look at all option to support the future of Worcestershire county cricket club and protect New Road ? my hon . friend be fight for a very good cause indeed . I will , of course , do as he ask and write to secretary of State at both DCMS and DEFRA , ask they to co - operate and assist my hon . friend in this very important campaign . this afternoon , I will be attend the Art Fund 2019 museum of the year , St Fagans in my constituency , to celebrate the opening of the new building in its outdoor offer , the recreation of the vulcan pub from Cardiff city centre . while I be uneasy about attend a pub in a museum when I use to drink in it many year ago — it make I feel rather old — it be a fantastic addition to that wonderful museum ' s offer . it will be set up like a pub from 1913 , although unfortunately not with 1913 price over the bar . can we have a debate on the wonderful contribution that our museum make to our life in this country , and also to celebrate free entry to such museum — which be , of course , bring in by the Labour Government ? I be very jealous of the hon . Gentleman ' s plan visit and congratulate the museum on win museum of the year . I would encourage he to celebrate this with the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport on 23 May . I must say that I have some good news from Mid Devon District Council . my right hon . friend will no doubt fall off her chair — so long as she do not defect . the main thing be that it have be force to release the information on 3 Rivers Development — I have mention it in this place a couple of time — because it have be act irresponsibly . if he have a shred of decency , the leader of the council would now resign . this be a scandal worth million . the chairman of the scrutiny committee have do a runner — literally do a runner — and refuse to take part . as my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) say , local government be not get it right . we need time in this place to debate incompetence , obfuscation and , in some case , downright dishonesty by councillor use their position to bamboozle the people who put they there , who be the voter who vote for we and they . first , I reassure my hon . friend that I be not about to defect to the Opposition . they would not be interested in I — I be too left - wing . however , as I do every week , I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Levelling up have hear about the ongoing saga in my hon . friend ' s constituency and his concern about the performance of the council . I be sure the Leader of the House , as a former Minister for disabled people , be as concerned as I be that it be now two year since the Equality and Human Rights Commission issue a section 23 notice against the Government with regard to their discrimination against disabled people . that be follow by the report from the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with disability investigate a second set of breach of the convention by this Government , which be publish a couple of week ago . can we have a debate in Government time about why there have be this discrimination by the Government against disabled people and what the Government be go to do about it ? I will certainly make sure that both the Minister for Women and Equalities and the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work at the Department for Work and Pensions have hear that the hon . Lady be keen for an update on this matter . I have to say that , in my experience , the criticism of this country by many organisation , particularly international one include people from nation that provide very little support for disabled people , be quite wrong . I could point to many aspect of the work that have be do in many Departments to support disabled people in every walk of life . this be a matter that should concern everyone because most disability be acquire , whether from the build environment or in relation to work . we have enable 1 million people with a disability to get into work and have the dignity of a pay packet because of our change of approach on welfare and support . there be many other example and I think we have a good record over many year . however , there be always more to do and I will make sure that both minister have hear the hon . Lady . twelve month ago , the then Housing Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , tell the House that the Secretary of State be consider the recommendation of the final report of the regulation of property agent working group , publish in July 2019 . can we have a Minister come to the Dispatch Box to advise what progress have be make on create an independent body to regulate manage agent , so that leaseholder and indeed manage agent might have confidence in a single , fair and transparent system that will protect not only leaseholder , but manage agent alike ? I will make sure that my hon . friend have an update from the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . he will know that we be committed to raise professionalism among property agent . they must already belong to a redress scheme , and both the Government ' s Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill and Renters ( Reform ) Bill will help to drive up overall standard , but I shall make sure that the Department have hear what he say . yesterday , only week after admit to the serious side effect from its product , AstraZeneca withdraw its covid - 19 vaccine worldwide . like million in the UK and over 700 million people worldwide , I take the AstraZeneca jab , base on the Government ' s assurance that it be " safe and effective " , and I suffer side effect . I know there be very little appetite in this Chamber to discuss these matter , but I assure the House that there be huge and grow concern among the public about a medical intervention that this House encourage , coerce and , in some case , mandate people to inject into their body . so can we have a statement from the Health Minister on the withdrawal of the AstraZeneca vaccine and why the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency fail to act to protect the public interest , or be it that AstraZeneca withdraw its own product because it be far too safe and effective ? I be sorry to see the hon . Gentleman speak like that in this Chamber , especially as three speaker on the Front Bench have raise the issue of conspiracy theory and our combine effort to push back on they . the vaccine he refer to save , accord to many independent estimate , over 6 . 5 million life in the first year of use alone and over 3 billion dose of it be supply globally . he will know that , as with many other medical product , we do not keep particular vaccine in use permanently . disease and therapie change and vaccine need to be update , and he know it be very clear that this have be withdraw for commercial reason . it be no long need and there be two particular vaccine that be use now in our NHS with regard to covid . the hon . Gentleman have have several debate on this matter and on excess death . of course people suffer ill effect from take vaccine be a serious issue that need to be address and their need must be serve , but that be quite another thing from promote false information about the effectiveness and safety of vaccine . that vaccine and the people behind it save million of life . there be a chapter in the publication we have speak about that cover this precise point . I encourage the hon . gentleman to get a copy and read it , to think seriously when he come to the House , as he do every week , and promote conspiracy theory and to really think about the consequence of what he be do . I be delighted that Darlington have secure funding for a new 48 - place special educational need school but there be more to do , with excessively long wait for child and adolescent mental health service assessment put stress on family . do my right hon . friend agree that we need to see those wait reduce , and can we have a debate on the issue ? I thank my hon . friend for all he be do to campaign on this very important issue . he know that we have make increase special educational need provision a priority . we have open 108 special free school and 51 new alternative provision free school , but this be a grow need and we want to ensure that every child and young person can have access to the support they need to thrive . he know how to apply for a debate , and I shall make sure the Secretary of State for Education have hear about his continue campaign and his interest in do more for his constituent . today , we be host an event call the National Women in Agriculture Awards , celebrate woman in farming . it be an absolutely fantastic opportunity for woman across Northern Ireland , Wales , Scotland and England to be celebrate . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate the hard work and the backbone of british farming — the woman ? on behalf of the whole House , I congratulate the hon . Lady on her involvement in that event , and of course send our thank and good wish to everyone attend , but also to everyone across the four nation of the UK who be provide this fundamental service — food production — to our population , and care for the land and the environment . she be absolutely right : in this sector , as in most , it be woman who deserve the great praise . the UK share prosperity fund be an important part of this Government ' s levelling - up agenda . it have be very important to we in Cornwall , where it have support over 100 business and community project , include around £ 1 million to improve flood resilience at Mevagissey harbour and £ 350 , 000 to promote all - year - round tourism in Newquay . the current round of funding expire next year and people in Cornwall be eager to know what the future hold . I know the precise detail and the amount will be part of the spending review , but could we have a statement from the Government on how they see the future of the share prosperity fund ? the UK share prosperity fund , which be worth £ 2 . 6 billion , have play a major part in restore pride in place and help people to access opportunity , particularly in place of need such as ex - industrial area , deprive town and rural coastal community . I thank my hon . friend for all the work he have be do in his local area . I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear that he be keen to have an update on this matter , and my hon . friend will know how to apply for a debate . Derriford Hospital in Plymouth have declare five critical incident already this year . despite the heroic work of dedicated NHS staff , it have some of the bad performance on accident and emergency and ambulance handover delay in the country . with social care , primary care and NHS dentistry in a dire state in Plymouth , too , can we have a debate on health in Plymouth and what can be do to support those brilliant NHS staff in rescue service at Derriford Hospital ? I be sorry to hear about the particular performance of the hon . Gentleman ' s local trust . he will know that we be put a huge amount of resource into ensure that we can catch up , particularly since the pandemic . we have 2 million more operation , more than 160 diagnostic centre have be set up and we have the dental recovery plan . the funding be provide by the UK Government , but it will be up to local commissioner how they use those service . the next question to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be on 4 June , and I encourage the hon . gentleman to raise any specific concern he have with she then . I very much welcome and support the Government ensure that the UK be in the vanguard of global decarbonisation of aviation . I also welcome and support the sustainable aviation fuel mandate come in early next year . however , the revenue support mechanism be not plan to be introduce until later in 2026 . can we have consideration of a statement on bring that forward to ensure that there be certainty in the UK sustainable aviation market , so that domestic manufacture of the fuel ensure that we decarbonise our aviation and be at the forefront of green technology ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . we can be proud that the UK be world - lead in this regard — not just our incredible science and business community , but the RAF . that be its second mention in this business question session . it have be a pioneer on sustainable aviation fuel . the next question to the Secretary of State for Transport be on 16 May . I encourage my hon . friend to raise this matter with he there . this week mark World Asthma Day , and new analysis from Asthma + Lung UK show that 12 , 000 people have die from the condition since the national review of asthma death be publish in 2014 . in fact , asthma death have increase by almost 25 % in the past 10 year , despite there be major preventable factor in two third of those case . please can we have a statement from a Health Minister outline how the Government plan to tackle this crisis and finally act on the recommendation of the national review of asthma death ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important issue , which will be of direct concern to many across the country . as I have say , the next question to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be on 4 June . the hon . Lady may wish to raise the issue directly with she then . in the meantime , I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear her concern . the Leader of the House will no doubt be aware of the ongoing speculation that Royal Mail and its parent company International Distributions Services be subject to a takeover by EP Group . I know she will agree that the Royal Mail play an important economic , social and cultural role in this country . as well as deliver a universal service obligation to all part of the UK , Royal Mail be an iconic british brand . it carry his Majesty ' s insignia and play a vital role in all UK election . I know how much my constituent value regular and timely postal service . may we have a debate in Government time on what legal safeguard be available to ensure that the important function of Royal Mail be deliver for all our constituent , and that they continue beyond the obligation in the National Security and Investment Act 2021 in the event that the company be take over and headquarter outside the UK ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . those service be fundamental , not least because many healthcare service in particular rely on they — other hon . member have raise concern about that . give that the next question to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade be not until 13 June , I will ensure that she have hear his concern . on behalf of my constituent Glen Coleman , and the many other victim who be discriminate against and dishonourably discharge from the armed service for be gay , can the Leader of the House give any reassurance that the LGBT veteran independent review carry out by Lord Etherton will be bring forward for debate in the near future , or at least before the general election ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that . the review and the apology give by the Prime Minister on behalf of the nation be an incredibly important landmark . there be still outstanding issue with regard to those in service that be not public facing — intelligence agency and so forth . I will ensure that the relevant Minister have hear what he have say . I encourage he to apply for a debate in the usual way . Leigh Lionesses be a newly found football club aim at provide a nurture environment for girl to thrive in football , but accord to lead member Gary Jacobs , whose daughter be a brilliant Leigh Lioness , their journey have be mar by a real struggle to find consistent playing venue and suitable facility because so often they be already book up by boy ' football club . may we have a debate in Government time on the number of pitch , all - weather pitch and facility available for woman ' s football up and down the country ? I can feel a bid to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport come up . my hon . friend , who be a formidable campaigner , will know that the next question to the Secretary of State be on 23 May , when I encourage she to raise that directly . the Secretary of State have take a particular interest in community sport and have give considerable grant funding to local authority to increase the number of pitch , and in particular those that can be use all year round . my office stand ready to assist my hon . friend in ensure that everyone in her constituency — especially the girl ' team — have somewhere they can play this sport . yesterday , TSB announce 36 bank closure , include the closure of the branch on Bedlington high street in my constituency . that will be the last bank close its door , make Bedlington basically a banking desert . I understand that lot of people now prefer telephone banking or internet banking , but many people — mainly vulnerable people — depend on high street bank . this closure will have a huge impact on Bedlington . will the Leader of the House join I in demand that TSB review its decision at Bedlington ? can we have a debate in the House to discuss the impact of these action on town such as Bedlington ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . it be in everyone ' s interest , include bank ' interest , that constituent can access those service . even if a particular brick and mortar building have to close down , there be way of retain those vital service , include cash banking for business . as he rightly say , access to banking service , particularly for vulnerable and old people , need to be continue in our community . I will ensure that the relevant Department give he advice about what he can do to help facilitate that . of course , the bank have an obligation to ensure that its customer can continue to use its service . I have stop the large number of so - call asylum seeker from attend my surgery , and I have instruct my office not to deal with asylum case , for two reason : as mp we have zero authority , mandate or influence over Home Office decision ; and I want to dedicate my very limited resource to put Dudley people first . can we have a debate on the pressure that asylum seeker be put on our nation ' s resource and local service ? the hon . Gentleman raise a specific point , which I could generalise on . our approach to this issue have be to recognise that we have finite resource , and we want to direct they in the most efficient and effective way possible . that be why we must control our border , which be what the british people want . they want the Government to control access for foreign national to the UK . as well as border control , we have be reform process at the Home Office . he will know that we have speed up look at case by close to 300 % , and we be crack through that backlog . we will get on top of it . the public can see that progress be be make , include on get people out of hotel . we be make good progress and we need to continue , to ensure that the system we have in place be not pile pressure on local service , whether education , healthcare or the service that the hon . Gentleman offer in his office . that be very well understand , and I hope he understand that the Government be do that . up and down the country , hundred of thousand of young people be about to take their summer exam . unfortunately , there will not be a level playing field , because thousand of pupil — include hundred in my constituency — have be impact significantly by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete and asbestos , have lose several month of face - to - face teaching . the Department for Education and the exam board do not seem interested in provide an uplift to those young people to ensure that they get fair examination . may we have a debate in Government time on the impact of RAAC and asbestos on the learning and opportunity of young people , and on the need for fair and equal examination this summer ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . he will know that the Secretary of State for Education , in legendary fashion , have be do something about this matter . if he will furnish I with the detail of the school that he be particularly concerned about , I will ensure that the Department get that message and respond to his office , so that his constituent do not face disruption this summer when do their exam . on behalf of Hinckley and Bosworth , I congratulate the return conservative police and crime commissioner for Leicestershire , Rupert Matthews . his re - election be in no small part thank to his introduction of a rural crime team , which have recover £ 1 . 3 million worth of steal good since its introduction and reduce rural crime by 24 % , accord to the late newsletter . will my right hon . friend thank the return pcc , the Leicestershire police force and , most importantly , the office of the rural crime team for all they do to reduce crime in the like of Market Bosworth and the surround village ? I happily join my hon . friend in congratulate Rupert Matthews on his return to office , and I thank he for the leadership he have show in reduce crime in his local area , as well as the police force on the frontline . in certain part of the country the police often get a hard time from we in this place , but they do tremendous work . on the same resource since 2010 , crime have be halve in this country , leave aside online fraud and particular hotspot in the west midland and London . that be a tremendous achievement , and it be thank to the accountability and direct democracy of police and crime commissioner but also , most of all , the hard work , effort and effectiveness of our police officer . I remind member that it be important to ask the Leader of the House about business connect with the House , as well as congratulate various people . my constituent Janice lose her brother in 2020 in a tragic incident cause by a dangerous driver . she have since campaign tirelessly for those convict of cause death by dangerous driving to receive lifetime driving ban . as thing stand , I understand that the Government be look at the issue , but they have be do so for some time . may we have a statement from the relevant Minister set out the Government ' s intention , and whether they will seek to ensure that those convict of cause death by dangerous driving can not again get behind the wheel ? I thank the hon . gentleman for bring Janice ' s work on this important issue to the attention of the House , and I thank she for what she be do in the wake of an appalling tragedy to ensure that no one else have to endure what she have be through . I will ensure that both the Lord Chancellor and the Secretary of State for Transport have hear the request for an update on this important matter . SME Finance Treasury Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement . the Chair of the Treasury Committee , the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , will speak for up to 10 minute , during which time no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . I emphasise that we want brief question , not speech , and that those question should be direct to the Committee Chair , not the relevant Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant this wonderful opportunity to present the report that the Treasury Committee publish yesterday on access to finance for small and medium - sized business . as every Member will know , small and medium - sized enterprise form the backbone of the UK economy . all of we in our constituency will be aware of amazing small and medium - sized business . in fact , 99 % of the business in this country be small and medium - sized , which give we an idea of how important they be . well over half of our constituent who be employ work for sme . access to finance for small and medium - sized business , which the Committee have be look at , be therefore a really important issue . I want to highlight some of the point raise in our report . this be an opportunity not only for member to hear those point but , I hope , for the Minister to take they on board . no one can deny that , with the pandemic and the energy price crisis , the past five year have be an absolutely torrid time for everyone . sme have often be at the forefront and have experience the brunt of those crisis , but without the huge resource that large business have to be able to cope . through those crisis , the Government take extraordinary step to provide support in term of access to finance for small and medium - sized business , but we be now in a different environment . in fact , all the evidence and datum publish this week show that small and medium - sized business be begin to feel much great confidence — we be see some real improvement there . nevertheless , issue remain from that difficult time and also more structurally follow financial regulation measure set up since the banking crash in 2008 . I want to flag up a few of the point that we make in our report . the first concern the Business Banking Resolution Service , which be set up after the banking crisis and be design to provide access to resolution , mediation and outcome for business that be too large to access the Financial Ombudsman Service but have nevertheless be treat pretty badly during the financial crisis . I think it fair to say that the Committee form the view that the Business Banking Resolution Service have not be a success . it be own and run by the bank , which raise question about conflict of interest in the first place , or certainly the perception of a conflict of interest . moreover , it have spend about £ 40 million during its lifetime and have award only £ 2 million worth of compensation , because it draw the access criterion so tightly that very few business be able to qualify . as a result , there be very unsatisfactory outcome for business that use the resolution service because they could not access the Financial Ombudsman Service , and the Committee agree that it should close as plan . we look to the Government to come up with a consultation on a new mechanism by the end of this calendar year . secondly , there be a Government initiative call the British Business Bank . the Committee think highly of what it hear in evidence from BBB , and welcome the announcement in the Budget that the covid recovery loan scheme have be rebrande as the growth guarantee scheme . we expect that to be an important source of credit to help small business to grow when they would otherwise have struggle . however , we note that very few small business even know about this organisation , and we have try to publicise it through the report . we urge the Government to assess the effectiveness of BBB every year , because we think it have an important role to play and it be pretty successful where it be know about , but it be not widely know about . thirdly , we be greatly concern by what we hear in the evidence about something that sound very niche but be actually very important . it be know in the trade as Basel 3 . 1 . after the financial crisis a committee set up in Basel , the swiss city where the central bank of central bank be locate , come up with some proposal which be then know as Basel III . the Prudential Regulation Authority — part of the alphabet soup of financial regulation that be set up after the crash — be currently consult on a tightening of the criterion for lend to small and medium - sized business . at present there be a discount factor relate to the risk to bank ' balance sheet from lend to such business , but the PRA want to tighten that arrangement considerably . the Committee be concerned because , accord to the evidence that we hear , such a move could withdraw about £ 44 billion of lend to business from the UK economy . we therefore urge the PRA not to proceed , particularly because we also hear evidence that the proposal would not be implement in the United States or in the European Union . in fact , for many year when we be member of the EU we do not implement what the Basel Committee be recommend . the committee then issue a statement express concern and say that we be in violation of its recommendation . that show that it be perfectly possible not to implement they : all you will get be a reprimand . we have therefore conclude that the support factor for small and medium - sized business should not be change at this stage in the economic cycle . a fourth issue that come up in the evidence we receive , and which have really shock the Committee , be the extent to which bank be simply close the bank account of business across the country . I expect that every Member of this House will have have a piece of casework that involve one of the business in their constituency be tell that its bank account be close , with absolutely no reason or notice give by the bank . we ask the bank about this issue , and they confess that they have close over 140 , 000 business bank account during the course of 2023 . obviously , there can be perfectly good reason for do that : there will be business that do not reply to any question from their bank , and there will be business that be suspect of money laundering or that have actually be find to have do so . however , we also find that bank can use phrase such as " risk appetite " or " reputational risk " to close the bank account of organisation and business that we would think be a perfectly fair part of the fabric of this country . for example , amusement arcade and pawnbroker can struggle to get access to a bank account . perhaps most alarmingly , we hear in one of our evidence session with bank that even someone in the defence sector can have their bank account closed or struggle to open one . this be often to do with the share - holder of bank want to observe the environmental , social and governance rule . we all think that such rule be good , but they can lead to some unintended and inadvertent consequence , whereby defence company be effectively debanke and can not get access to a bank account in this country . I be sure that all member present will recognise that the defence of this country be a foundation for ESG compliance , and should not , therefore , lead to people struggle to get a bank account . we urgently request that the Treasury introduce the legislation on debanke that it have promise , and we look forward to that happen before the end of July . it be something that we be keen to see . I see that my 10 minute be up . I thank everyone for their attention , and I hope my statement have provide food for thought for member across the House . I be on the Treasury Committee , and I commend my hon . friend for her great chairmanship . she have already mention the need for transparency , and I be delighted that the Treasury will bring that forward , but I be particularly strike by how difficult it be to open account . even for farmer , it can take multiple month . most importantly of all , the PRA ' s approach be go to choke the growth of many small business , and we need our small business to become much big for the prosperity of our country . do my hon . friend agree that the PRA really need to understand the importance of this issue to ensure that the entire country prosper , which will only happen if small business prosper ? I agree with my right hon . friend . inflation be the bad tax on our economy and important step be be take by the independent Bank of England to raise interest rate , to make sure that inflation get back to its target zone . that all seem to be on track . monetary policy have be tighten already , and we see that in the environment in which our small and medium - sized business be work . they have be squeeze by high interest rate , and the evidence we receive show that the acceptance rate for credit have fall from 80 % to 50 % , so it do not feel like the right time to be tighten access to finance for small and medium - sized business through a change in regulation . it particularly do not feel like the right time to be do so unilaterally , when the EU and the US be not follow the Basel 3 . 1 rule . I be also a member of the Treasury Committee , and I thank the Chair for all her hard work on this report . on the overall question of the confidence of sme in their ability to access finance , the report raise some interesting figure . there be a £ 95 billion finance gap in large high street bank lending to sme between 2015 and 2022 , alongside the soft pressure of sme fear rejection in lending and the lack of trust in the lender themselves . will the Chair please provide an assessment of how she feel that appetite look across the rest of this year and beyond ? what tool be at our disposal to deal with the inherent caution in the SME lending market ? I thank my excellent colleague for his question . he be absolutely right that the inquiry receive evidence on what I would describe as financial apathy . small business sometimes choose not to borrow , choose not to grow , in fact , only 5 % of small business that seek lending would even consider shop around to find another provider if they be reject by their main bank . there be work to do to encourage and guide sme , and the British Business Bank have a very important role . it be not well enough know , which be probably hold back the growth of many excellent small business . I be so proud that our Committee have be able to champion this . I be grateful to the Chair of the Treasury Committee for make this statement today . she will be aware that one of the main reason why a lot of small business have to rely on bank funding be because big business do not pay their bill on time , and all too often do not pay their bill at all . a lot of small business in my constituency , particularly in construction - relate work , tell I that they sometimes have to wait six month or more to get pay . that increase the risk factor for a bank , because it be much more likely that the small business will fail . have the Committee look at the problem , or do it intend to do so , where small business , particularly in the construction sector , be not pay for their work ? the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point that everyone in this House will recognise as a challenge . get pay by big business be a bane of the life of many small business owner . I know there have be a lot of work in the Department for Business and Trade , and the Government need to lead by example by promptly pay for service . the Committee hear evidence that small business continue to be frustrate by this . I thank the Chair of the Treasury Committee for her statement and for answer question . Backbench Business Miners and Mining Communities I beg to move , that this House have consider miner and mining community . I thank my good hon . friend the Member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , who chair the Backbench Business Committee , and the member of that Committee for grant this debate . thirty - one member from across the House support the application for this debate , include the late Sir Tony Lloyd . he be a good friend , sadly miss , and a steadfast supporter of miner and mining community . yesterday I march with Bert Moncur , a former Murton miner and a constituent of mine who work underground alongside my late father and my mentor and predecessor in this place , John Cummings . hundred of pensioner from across our coalfield community march on Westminster with a clear message , " we want our money back . " we know the Government ' s position . they claim to protect pension while balance the need of the scheme and the taxpayer but , in reality , there be no fairness or balance . the Government have take nearly £ 5 billion from the pension fund without contribute a single penny since 1984 . despite challenge such as the covid - 19 pandemic , the global banking crisis and the Government ' s financial meltdown , the mineworker ' pension scheme have endure , without any Government financial support . the miner I march with yesterday be taxpayer , who be once part of thrive mining community that have full employment and decent wage . they contribute to their pension assume that they would have security in retirement , yet their job , wage and now pension have be take by this Conservative Government . I be bear into a mining family , in the coalfield community of Murton , in 1961 . it be hard to explain to someone who be not bear in a mining community how life be organise around the pit . I remember Murton pit pond , our swimming pool , which be heat by surplus hot water from the mine . I have my first shower at Shotton colliery pit bath . every village have a network of colliery club , park , sport team and welfare facility vital to community life , fund by contribution from work miner . our culture and heritage remain , and it be celebrate in our miner ' banner and brass band that be showcase every year at the Durham miner ' gala . on the platform , we have hear the great of the Labour and trade union movement , the like of Nye Bevan , Tony Benn and my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) . the illustrious list will surely grow this year when my good and hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) address the gala . there be no feeling quite like marching to the racecourse , follow your village banner and brass band — it be a unique privilege . when I grow up , in the 1960 and 1970 , life be never easy in mining town and village , but in the main we be happy , and life have purpose and meaning . the pit provide full employment for all age and ability . our street be not pave with gold , but our community be rich with pride and honour , and we have a sense of self - worth . the man in the mine during my childhood be from the wartime generation . they be those who have risk their life to defend our country , democracy and way of life . they be man such as Bill McNally , a Murton miner who be award the Victoria Cross for bravery in world war one . his family still reside in the village . his grandson , Kevin McNally , be a diamond and one of my close friend . the coal industry be crucial in create our nation ' s wealth . it fuel the fire of the industrial revolution , sustain we through two world war , and enable the growth of new sector in finance and the City . there be no doubt about it : this country , this nation , owe the mining community a debt of honour and gratitude , one that be yet to be repay . I be pleased to make a brief intervention in this debate . the hon . Gentleman may not know that I be vice - chair of the all - party group on coalfield community for some time , and I , too , wish to pay tribute to the miner , for whom I fight during the miner ' strike . I do so for the UDM — Union of Democratic Mineworkers — side of thing . those of we who be bring up in the 1950 know well the condition of the miner at that time , and I have always have enormous , deep affection for they , which I carry through to this day . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . characteristically , he be generous in his remark and we appreciate it . the last pit in my constituency , Easington colliery , close in 1993 , at a time when coal provide 50 % of the UK ' s electricity production . the decision at the time to close the british coal industry make our country dependent on import coal , which until 2014 still account for 35 % of energy generation . Coalfield community have never fully recover from de - industrialisation , as be prove in the new " State of the Coalfields 2024 " report publish by Sheffield Hallam University and the Coalfields Regeneration Trust . in response to the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , the all - party group continue to take up cause and issue , ably chair by my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) . the Government continue to undermine the local economy , as evidence in the excellent report , despite the regular trumpeting of level - up policy . in reality , the conservative party choose to invest levelling - up funding in place like Richmond and Cheltenham , rather than in place like Horden , in my constituency , which be in the top 1 % of the most deprived area in the country . level up offer hope , but the ready - to - go Horden masterplan for regeneration be sideline by a Conservative - lead coalition from Durham County Council that favour a single bid from Bishop Auckland , a constituency represent by a Conservative MP and a former Minister in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . the Government have ignore and neglect our most deprived mining community . far from level up , Conservative Ministers have widen economic inequality . do my hon . friend agree that the problem with the levelling - up agenda the Government be pursue be that it be mainly about capital investment ? although that investment be desperately need in coalfield area , Durham County Council have also lose £ 240 million from its grant , so the service that our constituent rely on have be devastate over the past 14 year . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his intervention . I be go to talk about the levelling - up bidding round . he and other hon . member be well aware of the cost that be incur by the county council — £ 1 . 2 million — in prepare bid that be not approve by the Government . we should have a means - base system ; it should not be a beauty contest . those community , include the mining community that be among the most deprived and urgently need regeneration , should be prioritise . unfortunately , that be not happen . the evidence be quite clear and be lay out in the " State of the Coalfields " report . I know other hon . member will mention that , so I will not dwell on that point . Coalfield community undoubtedly face numerous challenge : a lack of job opportunity , limited public investment , and high council taxis . we could have a separate debate about the flawed council tax that penalise area with relatively low property value , like mine and those of my right hon . and hon . friend . demand on social service be increase in coalfield community because of an age population , many of whom have health legacy associate with work in pit and heavy industry , and generally have low disposable income . under these condition , local economy struggle to thrive , lack sufficient income to support vital small business and employment opportunity . low wealth coincide with low wage , make my region , the north - east , the low pay in the country . the Government could alleviate this , in part , by address past injustice and ensure retirement security for mine - worker and their widow by reform the mineworker ' pension scheme , in line with the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee recommendation publish April 2021 . a legacy of mining be industrial disease , cut life short , include those of my own father and grandfather , who be both coalminer who pass away in their 50 , before reach retirement age . my father die in the belief that his pit pension would provide security for my age mother , who happen to be celebrate her 88th birthday on Sunday . [ hon . member : " Hooray ! " ] we know that some pensioner receive as little as £ 10 a week from the mineworker ' pension scheme . our miner create the wealth that make this country great , with the mineworker ' pension scheme be among the UK ' s large pension fund . however , money that should be use to provide security in retirement be be siphon off by the Treasury , take half of all the pension fund ' s surplus . in a parliamentary response to I in December , Ministers confirm that they have take £ 4 . 8 billion — billion not million , as be report on the tv last night — out of the pension scheme . I note also that this figure have not be adjust for inflation , so can the Minister tell I what the figure would be if it be adjust for inflation ? this money should be use to enhance pension , not only provide extra security in retirement , but support our local economy , coalfield community , employment and small business . the vast majority of retire miner and their widow continue to live in our coalfield community . the moral case for reform be strengthen by an unfulfilled promise of a disgrace former Prime Minister . I must remind member — particularly those on the conservative Benches — of the promise make by Boris Johnson when address miner in Mansfield and Ashfield during the 2019 general election campaign . once again , he deceive voter , fail to fulfil his promise on the surplus sharing arrangement , which remain grossly unjust . the Government and the Minister have the opportunity to put that right today . I commend my colleague in the shadow Cabinet , especially my hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , who chair the then Business , Enterprise and Industrial Strategy Committee , which provide a blueprint for reform . the Select Committee report on the mine - worker ' pension scheme offer a road map for retain the Crown guarantee , release the £ 1 . 2 billion in the investment reserve fund , return the surplus , and protect the taxpayer . with key member such as my hon . friend the Members for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , for Bristol North West , for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North likely to hold crucial position in a future Labour Government , I be confident that we can achieve pension justice for retire miner and their widow in our coalfield community . I urge those on my own Front Bench to provide a clear commitment on this issue at the early opportunity . finally , I want to mention my constituent , Ray Patterson , who sadly pass away last year , age just 62 . he be one of the 11 , 291 people arrest and one of 9 , 000 sack during the miner ' strike . his life be change forever by his imprisonment on the ancient charge of unlawful assembly — a law that can trace its origin back to 1328 . after the strike , the Government abolish unlawful assembly and introduce the Public Order Act 1986 . Ray be innocent and at any other time he would not have be arrest , charge , or convict . I be 24 during the miner ' strike and see how the Conservative Government try to starve worker and their family into submission . I see a police state on the street of east Durham , intent on crush miner fight to protect their job and community . the Government , court , police and national medium be part of a criminal conspiracy against work people in coalfield community . Ray , who be imprison and lose his job and pension , spend the rest of his life rebuild . he leave we too early , but his legacy will live on through his family . Ray maintain his innocence and fight to exonerate himself — I be sorry , Ray , that we could not deliver justice in your lifetime . we need the truth . while Scotland have take step with the Miners ' Strike ( Pardons ) ( Scotland ) Act 2022 , England and Wales lag behind . the policing of the strike be notorious , mark by perjury and fabricated evidence , which be willingly accept in the Government ' s war on the miner . four decade later , it be imperative that Ministers commit to uncover the truth about the strike , particularly event in relation to Orgreave . many conviction from the strike be unsafe , warrant the erasure of criminal record , with only a few exception . from Orgreave to Hillsborough , a pattern of criminal misconduct in public office emerge , with South Yorkshire police at its centre . Coalfield community face numerous challenge in achieve justice and economic growth . we require a Government commit to level up , fair taxation , and justice . despite slogan such as " big society " , " northern powerhouse " , and " level up " , the conservative party have fail to deliver tangible intervention , particularly in the area of great need , such as Horden , Easington , Peterlee , Murton , Blackhall , South Hetton , Haswell , Shotton , and Seaham . resident in these community have little hope of opportunity and change under the Conservative Government , so those on the Labour Front Bench must address this challenge by bring investment , growth , and opportunity to these former mining community , which be in need of a real alternative . I thank all member who have take the time to attend this debate today . I particularly thank the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) — my hon . friend — who co - sponsor this very important debate with I . I represent my hometown of Leigh in Parliament , and 2024 be the 125th anniversary of Leigh be grant its town charter in 1899 by Queen Victoria . there be so many mine in Leigh and the surround community that the area be know in the 19th century as Coalopolis . gradually , from the 1960 onwards , the mine begin to close , with the last one close in the early 1990 . I live very close to Bickershaw colliery , just over the boundary from my own village of Lowton in Leigh — over Plank Lane bridge . my great - grandfather work down that mine with his brother , who be the fire safety officer . there be some very frightening story of mining disaster back in the day , and I be sure all those from similar mining community could tell similar tale . there be many legacy issue in mining community such as ours . they include contaminate land and the recovery of land that be cover by slag heap , as well as the economic problem that we see as de - industrialisation take place . Leigh be home not only to a large number of mine , but to cotton mill , which disappear a generation early . I be proud to say that , today , unemployment in Leigh be pretty close to the national average . as Leigh be situate halfway between Liverpool and Manchester , we be gradually transition from a former mining community to a commuter community . I hope that one day Leigh can be as wealthy as Stockport or Trafford . certainly , that be an ambition to which everyone in my home community can aspire . I wish to talk about some of the thing that we have be do since I be elect as the Member of Parliament . first , Leigh have have £ 20 million for a new community diagnostic centre and operating theatre at Leigh Infirmary . historically , people from Leigh have have to go to Wigan , which might not seem far away , but it can take 45 minute to get there through heavy traffic , so it be important that our town have full facility at the infirmary . we receive £ 11 . 5 million from the levelling - up fund to refurbish Leigh market , the town square and shop front on Bradshawgate . hopefully that work will begin soon . we have a furth £ 1 . 5 million to regenerate Railway Road , where my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( David Morris ) use to have his hairdresser shop back in the day , although , as member can tell , it be a while since I have need his service . we have also receive £ 20 million over 10 year from the future town fund for further regeneration project in Leigh . that be £ 53 million that the Government be put into the regeneration of Leigh , and I be very proud to have play my part in help to secure that funding . however , that be not the only funding that the constituency be get ; that be just some of the funding for the main town of Leigh itself , which be only about half the constituency . the surround former mining community also make up about 50 % of the constituency . it may surprise member — to some degree it surprise I — that the Mayor of Greater Manchester , Andy Burnham , and I be wait on final approval for Golborne station ' s reopen , for which the Government have already provide £ 14 million from the transform city fund . if we be successful , and I truly hope that we be , this will be the first time since the 1960 that the constituency have have a railway station . I hope that it will prove to be the template for a future station serve the town of Leigh itself . Andy Burnham and I have not always see eye to eye , but I be proud that we have be able to put party politic aside and work together on that project . I really hope that the Department for Transport will approve it ; I have my finger cross . there be also a successful bid for £ 1 million for the Tyldesley heritage action zone — the first community - lead regeneration project of its kind in the country . I thank Ian Tomlinson and the For Tyldesley community interest company for the great work that they be do to regenerate Elliott Street , the high street in Tyldesley . finally , I be work on a bid with Transport for Greater Manchester to secure £ 53 million of transport funding from the cancel hs2 project to complete the Atherleigh Way bypass , to deal with the congestion that have be blight Leigh , Atherton and my home village of Lowton for over 60 year . that be £ 54 million secure for the former mining community in my constituency , and £ 67 million more that we be fight for , under this Conservative Government . I be proud that we have finally see some money come to our town . as many people will say , include former member for my seat , we have often feel like a forget part of the north - west of England and a forget corner of the borough of Wigan . I be proud to say that that be start to change . I be very proud to have serve my constituency for nearly five year as the local MP , but I have a couple of request of the Minister . first , Leigh could have secure another £ 8 . 5 million from the levelling - up fund , but Wigan Council refuse to bid for the full £ 20 million available . the hon . member for Easington say that he face similar problem with the levelling - up fund bid . we have to find a well model for future round of level - up funding , because council can not be the arbiter of the funding we get . every constituency have the right to the same amount of money , and it be important that everyone get the £ 20 million they be eligible for . a well model need to be find for allocate future funding and put in bid . some colleague have say that they have £ 20 million in the pot wait , but their local authority have simply refuse to bid for it . that be not good , especially when the mining community that we represent be so in need of that money , give the historical issue and problem that they face . I feel a bit disturbed by the line that the hon . Member be go down . my local authority have try to make bid in each of the different round . one time , we be tell that we be not allow to do so because we have receive 5p in a previous round . then we be tell that we should apply in the next round , which do not even come into existence . we have be lead a merry dance in my local authority . as my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) say , local authority staff have waste hour , and thousand of pound , complete a completely nugatory exercise . the Government should be ashamed of this process . I have some sympathy with the hon . Gentleman . we be look down opposite end of the kaleidoscope . his council have want to put forward bid and not get they . my council first come up with a bid to spend £ 20 million on a multi - storey car park , which be completely unacceptable . then it bid for half the money . I think the one thing that we can both agree on be that the initial model for the levelling - up fund bore considerable room for improvement . that need to be address , which be why I be raise it with the Minister . it be a cross - party concern , and I be happy to say that in this Chamber . finally , the hon . member for Easington raise the miner ' pension fund . I urge the Minister to take back to colleague in Cabinet the issue that will doubtless be raise by voice across the Chamber . it be a matter of justice that miner get back the surplus from their pension fund . it be their money . they pay it into the system . we promise they that we would resolve this , and we should — it be only just . with that , I shall sit down , for I have say my piece . I welcome contribution from other member . I know that you can not take part in today ' s debate , Madam Deputy Speaker , but you have a strong connection with miner and coalfield community , and your presence in the Chair should be recognise . I be pleased to speak in this debate , as a former chair of the all - party parliamentary group on coalfield community , as a patron of the Workers Memorial charity in St Helens , and as the MP for a very proud Lancashire mining community . I be bear in the summer of 1984 . I know that there will be disbelief at that , give my youthful visage and disposition . I be positively Jurassic compare with our new kid on the block , my hon . friend the Member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) . as I approach my own landmark this year , like many other I have be watch and listen to the excellent documentary , podcast and reflection on the 40th anniversary of the miner ' strike . as someone relatively au fait with the history of that period , which some of my esteemed colleague live through — I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for secure today ' s debate and the work that he do — I be frankly surprise by how surprised I be by the revelation contain in much of the testimony provide by those involve . I be not naive about the excess of the state and its abuse of power — it have life and death consequence every day where I grow up — but I have not quite understand how it have manifest with such brutal consequence in England , Scotland and Wales . there be a moral vacuum at the heart of the then Government ' s economic policy , which be design to cast not just one but maybe two or three generation of man and their family out into the wilderness of worklessness . those man and their family and community be treat as subversive , when in fact all they be do be assert their right as worker and trade unionist to withdraw their labour as a last resort . it be not just the policy that be immoral , but the strategy and the tactic to divide community and to set worker against worker . well , we do not forget . the solidarity today and the desire for justice and truth about what happen be still as strong . I do not say these thing to settle score or to make any of my friend on the Government Benches , some of whom come from these community and know much more about they than I do , feel uncomfortable , but the people I represent would want and expect I to say they , and it be my duty and privilege to do so . however , the positive legacy of mining and miner be still a shine light in St Helens . the work do by the North West Miners Heritage Association be testament to that . it preserve the story and memory , it have recreate the beautiful banner , and it provide support to old friend and comrade . as many of the physical sign of our industrial past fade from view , the association , the brass band and the rugby league club keep the flame alive , and ensure that this and subsequent generation know the history of their forebear . we need to look after some of their forebear now . my hon . friend the Member for Easington and my neighbour the hon . member for Leigh ( James Grundy ) talk about miner ' pension . I pay tribute to Colin Rooney from Haydock in my constituency , who be one of the lead campaigner on that issue . I hope that those on both front Benches — that of the outgoing Government and that of , hopefully , the incoming government — have hear what have be say on that . it be important to say that mining community such as the one I represent be as much about the future as the past . in St Helens , one of our flagship regeneration project be the development of Parkside . it be the last Lancashire colliery to close in 1993 . it lie idle for over 20 year . when I be elect nine year ago , I say that it be one of my priority to get the project move . that be why I be so proud that , work with the Labour council , we have secure ten of million of pound in funding to redevelop and renew the site , attract public and private investment , build new infrastructure and create employment . work with the labour - run Liverpool city region , we secure designate free port status , which be attract advanced manufacturing and the job of the future , put St Helens at the heart of industry and innovation again . we be also undertake one of the most ambitious brownfield development project in old mining community in Parr and Bold , create new housing and community facility to help those place thrive . that take a lot of work , not least to clean up contaminate land with limited funding . I hope that in government my party will look at restore central Government funding to do that , as part of the very welcome plan to unblock planning and build more good , appropriate and affordable housing . we know too that we need more job , more skill and more business and economic growth . the " State of the Coalfields " report , which have already be reference , give we an enviable evidential base to put our case about where we need investment and what type of investment we need . the Coalfields Regeneration Trust continue to be a fundamental part of drive policy and progress in our area right across the country , and it deserve ongoing and indeed enhance support from Government to keep our community move ahead and to identify the help they can be give on that journey . the partnership between politician , business and local , regional and national government be critical to that . the work do by organisation such as the Industrial Communities Alliance to drive economic , environmental and social renewal be a vital part of plan and implement levelling up , in whatever guise and under whatever Government . I be proud of the contribution make to those discussion and effort by St Helens and the work we be do there . Martin Bond , one of our councillor , be the vice - chair of the ICA for the north - west region . his grandfather , Luke Maloney , from Sutton by way of County Galway , go underground in 1930 aged 14 , after his own father have be kill in the same pit , and stay there for 40 year . that be just one example of how the past , present and future coalesce in mining community . I want to finish by give a sense of that . my friend Eric Foster and his comrade from the Golborne Ex Miners Association have faithfully organise an annual commemoration for the 10 man who die in the disaster at Golborne colliery in 1979 . on 18 March that year , one of Britain ' s last major mining accident take place there , after a build - up of methane explode and send a fireball sear through the mine tunnel . we gather from across Wigan and St Helens some week ago to mark the 45th anniversary . we remember those who lose their life , John Berry , Colin Dallimore , Desmond Edwards , Patrick Grainey , Peter Grainey , Raymond Hill , John McKenna , Walter McPherson , Brian Sherman and Bernard Trumble , and we stand with Brian Rawsthorne , then a 20 - year - old apprentice electrician from Garswood in my constituency , who be seriously injure but survive . he and the family of the man who perish have bear their grief with great dignity , and they and their sacrifice be not forget . they can rest assure that whatever we do , in everything we do in mining community in future , they will always be part of it , and part of we . I thank the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and my hon . friend the Member for Leigh ( James Grundy ) for secure the debate . I be also grateful for the rescheduling of this debate from the very compressed timescale that would have be offer previously , because it be so important that we take time on this debate . mining have be a topic of personal relevance to I since long before I become an MP . I be a proud boy from Ferryhill , a mining village in the north of my constituency , and I be familiar with the unique sense of common bond create by the challenging circumstance emanate from the town and village of the Durham coalfield , which be typical of the coal community right across Britain . fishburn be the last mine in Sedgefield to close , in 1973 , with those at Wheatley Hill , Mainsforth and Trimdon Grange all have close in 1968 . it have be over 50 year since those community have a mine — so long ago that the Prime Minister at the time be Harold Wilson — but the heritage remain strong , as we see from this debate . despite it be over half a century since the mine be there , they still identify as mining village . the tradition most celebrated , as we have hear , include the annual miner gala in Durham , where the banner of the mine be parade . I have have the privilege of attend some of the Friday celebration , where the banner be prepare for the Saturday with the associate brass band play . brass band be a strong cultural asset of our mining community — a culture that be at least as important to the UK as any other . as a child I remember vividly the carnival that take place , with jazz band and float that bring people out to enjoy themselves . mining be so foundational to these community that they often have half a pit wheel prominently display at the entrance to the village . we laud the heroism of the coalminer for good reason . their work be frequently dangerous , with many thousand kill by disease and in accident , include the 73 kill at the Trimdon Grange colliery in my constituency in 1882 . the Black Bull pub in Ferryhill be rename the Dean & Chapter to respect the 73 man who lose their life in the colliery . the local community paper be similarly call " the chapter " as a link to the colliery . the Dean and chapter pit , which be locate next to Ferryhill , close in 1966 , and be where my grandfather mine . while the coalminer and the community be remember with respect and fondness , the mine themselves be not good place to work . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for Blyth Valley ( Ian Levy ) , who can not speak in this debate as he be assist the Minister , tell I his grandfather , Ralph Mitcheson , go down Crofton pit in Blyth , have leave school at 12 , and make my hon . friend ' s mam promise , " never let any of my grandkid go down that pit . " the hon . member for Easington and other have refer to the mineworker pension scheme . my own position on that be very clear and be on record already . he mention the then Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee ' s report on the subject . that be one of the first Committees I serve on in this place , and I be a signatory to that report ; I be pleased to contribute to and be part of that inquiry and I stand behind the report here and now . there be no more important reflection of the importance of mining in my area than Redhills , which be know — and still be — as the pitman ' s Parliament . in that space , each pit have a representative chair , and now miner ' family be able to have brass disc attach to the chair name specific miner who go down that particular colliery . I be proud to say that my grandfather , Thomas Ellis , be reference on the Dean and chapter chair . we must also ensure that member of all party remember our root and that we work together to celebrate mining community ' history and encourage their future . I attend the installation of a blue plaque in Durham to celebrate John Forman , who play a central role in form the Durham Miners Association and be its president from 1872 to 1900 . strangely , the only other politician present be the Liberal Democrat cabinet member for economy and partnership . we need cross - party engagement , because people such as John , who work so hard on mine safety — even write a paper on how coal dust ignite and cause explosion — and be see as the head of an organisation and a social movement that transform the life of the people of County Durham , be the root of our community , and their value need to be build upon , not forget . no one would dispute that the past couple of generation of resident have have more than their share of difficulty , yet the resilience they have show have be remarkable . it be their community identity that be the foundation for everything . that be particularly evident in the community support centre that have be establish , such as Ferryhill Ladder , Cornforth Partnership , Deaf Hill community centre , Trimdon Grange community centre , Trimdon village hall and many other across my Sedgefield constituency . for the past few year , I have be co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for " leave behind " neighbourhood , which look at the problem of deprive area and propose practical solution to they . that be not just the mining village , but they be certainly part of that cohort that could be describe as leave behind . we have see our request for a community wealth fund deliver , which should be valuable to many of those community . one problem the APPG have consistently raise , however , be low connectivity . how can resident aspire to social mobility if they do not even have the physical mobility that would enable they to reach well job ? in Newton Aycliffe and NETPark we have many employment opportunity , yet the bus service connect the mining village to they be appal . the single most crucial factor in enable the mining community to thrive again be well transport connection , because they invariably have very low level of car ownership and be too isolated for walk or cycling . therefore , the effort be make to improve transport link be more critical for those community than most . I hope that the change in the Treasury Green Book to reflect social impact can be turbocharge to deliver for those community . I wait with interest to see whether our new North East Mayor take an interest in these rural connection . I fervently hope she do and that she do not just spend all her time in the urban centre of the region . it be essential that rail connectivity be also improve ; I be delighted that the reopening of Ferryhill station , which will link my community to Tyneside and Teesside , have be confirm . I look forward to the new Mayor also commit to the Leamside line ; there be rumour that she be not go to , but I hope they be false , because it would be transformational for thousand of people who currently have limit transport option and would gladly use the new station and line to go to work and college . I will continue to work cross - party to push for delivery of that line , in particular with the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) . I be wait for the hon . gentleman to get to the key moment when he would mention the Leamside line , and I be not disappointed . as he know , there be a connection between our constituency , and they could be make even more connected if we get the Leamside line reopen . he mention that the newly elect Mayor may get cold foot on it . if she do , I have a bucket of hot water ready and wait for her foot . I have every faith that it will still be high on her agenda , and I look forward to be able to get on a train from my constituency to the hon . Gentleman ' s very soon . I look forward to that opportunity . I have write to the North East Mayor ask for engagement on that , and I would be delighted if the hon . Lady join I for such a meeting , should it arise . ferryhill station be not just about travel ; it be also about economic regeneration . the station close as part of the Beeching cut in 1967 , the same year that the Ferryhill mine close — and the same year , as it happen , that I move out of Ferryhill to Newton Aycliffe , about six mile away . it mean that resident lose not just a source of local job , but a mean of travel to new job . it be therefore an imperative that the project , which be recently confirm again by the Prime Minister , now make urgent progress . like any investment , it will show the community at or near the station — Ferryhill , Chilton , Mainsforth , Dean Bank , Cornforth and Bishop Middleham — that they be value , while also present increase opportunity for those that be slightly far away , such as Spennymoor and Tudhoe . one of the tenet of my election in 2019 be the desire to improve access to opportunity for all , and no one be more needing or deserving of opportunity than the resident of what be , and still be , describe as mining village . one cause of mine have be to encourage aspiration , particularly for the young people of Sedgefield , and that flow from session with the ambassador of Ferryhill primary school , lead by Glenys Newby , as well as visit to school in Hurworth , Wheatley Hill and everywhere in between . to enable and encourage aspiration , it be critical that we create opportunity . opportunity come from job and career , which be why I be so pleased about the growth of NETPark , a science community within two mile of Fishburn , a former mining village . close to my mining community be the new town of Newton Aycliffe , which offer 10 , 000 job , include at Hitachi . it be fundamental for the recovery of the mining community that industry of the future can be sustain , include at Hitachi . I be work with everyone from union to the Secretary of State , to find a way for those industry to continue admirably inspire their workforce in the future . however , they will help the community most in need only if my mining village can reach they via the bus connection that I mention . if we wish to secure future growth , we must develop new skill . I be enormously encourage by the growth in apprenticeship in the area , where 13 , 490 have start since 2010 , and by the increase quality of our school , which be help to deliver well educational outcome . over the past 14 year , we have go from 67 % of our school be rate good or outstanding to 91 % today . opportunity be support by education , and I have be delighted to engage not only with school but with the amazing university that support my constituency — most notably Durham University . I commend the work be do to reach out to community . I be delighted that Fiona Hill , the recently appoint chancellor of Durham University , hail from Bishop Auckland , a place with challenge similar to those in my community , so she get it . Fiona Hill hail from a disadvantaged background but manage to rise to work on the international stage , and have now return to become chancellor of Durham University . I support the university ' s " Shy bairn get nowt " project , which be an attempt to instil more confidence in our young people so that they speak up and be not only hear but listen to . I have such hope for the former mining community in my area . we need to continue effort to support education and aspiration , and to deliver well transport for those community . despite their challenge , I can see the potential they have to reinvent themselves . however , I can not stress enough just how crucial bus and train service be to that process . I look forward to see the service improve and those amazing community become the place that they deserve to be . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for all his important work on this issue , and I thank he and the hon . member for Leigh ( James Grundy ) for lead this important debate . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) . I will mention Channel 4 , so I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the miner ' strike of 1984 rip the life of miner and their family apart . it rip town such as Barnsley apart . the miner be shamefully brand " the enemy within " by the then Prime Minister . man be imprison because they be fight for their job . woman run soup kitchen because they be fight for their community . over 30 , 000 man work down the pit in Barnsley to keep the light on and the country move . the work be dirty and dangerous , but it be respect . however , the Ridley report of 1977 plan the destruction of Britain ' s coalmine industry , and its tactic be deploy under Margaret Thatcher in 1984 . they be illustrate in the excellent Channel 4 documentary on the miner ' strike early this year , which highlight the experience , impact and legacy of the strike 40 year on , and show in particular new footage of the event at Orgreave on 18 June . Orgreave change how we be police as a society , but it also change many life that day , as the documentary so powerfully highlight . trust in the police be still impact in area such as mine , even today . constituent of mine in Barnsley be still wait for justice for what happen to they at Orgreave , and they deserve to know the truth . many man who go down the pit have suffer from long - term health issue . the previous Labour Government give £ 2 billion - worth of compensation to coalminer who have contract lung disease as a result of their work for British Coal , and around £ 500 million for those who be injure by their use of vibrate tool down the pit . however , although former miner can seek compensation through the industrial injury disablement benefit claim process , many often report that the system be difficult to navigate . sadly , former miner and their family often tell the National Union of Mineworkers that they have not be assess correctly and be therefore deem ineligible for the compensation they deserve . it be often leave to spouse to fight for miner ' compensation after their death , wait for a post mortem to prove that they do indeed have lung full of coal dust and that it be the cause of their severe ill health and subsequent early death . we must do well in our approach to this issue , so that the man struggle with poor health be give the support they need . the NUM do an important job to this day in support miner in their struggle with industrial disease , and it have work with my office on a number of case in recent year . another issue that affect thousand of my constituent be the mineworker ' pension scheme . yesterday , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) and I meet miner who have travel from Barnsley to Westminster to meet we and campaign for change to the scheme . the average miner have a pension of just £ 84 per week , and widow be on a lot less . through the 50 - 50 surplus - share arrangement , the Government have take £ 4 . 8 billion pound out of the scheme , and that figure be set to rise to £ 6 billion . in response to a parliamentary write question , Ministers have admit to I that the " take it or leave it " deal when the pit be privatised be do without any actuarial advice . I be pleased to secure the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee inquiry into that injustice . I be grateful to the Committee ' s then Chair , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) — he be now shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury — for all his work on the issue . his report clearly conclude that the Government should not be in the business of profit from miner ' pension . have campaign to secure that enquiry , I have raise this issue dozen of time in this place , I have meet Ministers and shadow Ministers and , early this year , I visit the Treasury to make the case once again . I will continue to campaign for action and justice on the mineworker ' pension scheme . almost 90 % of the mining workforce become unemployed in the first 10 year after the 1984 strike . for community in the north , Scotland , south Wales and , of course , Yorkshire , where coalmining be a vital industry , the effect be devastating . in 1994 , a year after the pit close , Grimethorpe in Barnsley East be name the poor village in Britain . that be portray so powerfully in the film " brasse off " , which show the impact on our community . last year we mark the 30th anniversary since the pit cease production . hundred attend the miner ' memorial in Grimethorpe on the Thursday before Christmas , as they do every year , to remember the man who go to work and do not return home , as be sadly too often the case at colliery across the country . indeed , I know that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as the Member for Doncaster Central , regularly attend the Armthorpe memorial and have be a strong champion for miner . economically , area such as Barnsley have never recover . in its report , " next step in Levelling up the former Coalfields " , the Coalfields Regeneration Trust have make a number of recommendation for former coalfield area . these include strong policy to grow local economy and tackle economic inactivity , improvement to the transport infrastructure , and increase provision of apprenticeship . follow my question in this place , I be pleased that the Secretary of State agree to visit Barnsley East to see at first hand the work of the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , base in Wombwell in my constituency . however , despite be deserve by every measure , Barnsley East have miss out on levelling - up funding . levelling up be mean to support leave - behind area , but it have fail to do so . Barnsley be build on coal . mining power community and our community power a nation . when I hold an Adjournment debate on the mineworker ' pension scheme in 2019 , there be 160 , 000 man in that scheme , but today that number have sadly fall to just under 125 , 000 . time be run out . we can and should do well for our miner , whether that be on miner ' health , on miner ' pension or for mining area , as they face the economic legacy of pit closure to this day . the National Union of Mineworkers have a banner in Barnsley that state : " the past we inherit , the future we build . " that be just what we need to do : build a well future for our coalfield community . I be delighted to be able to speak in this debate . I be the furth south , by a long way , among the member who will participate , but the fact be that Cornwall have an incredibly proud heritage and history of mining . it be not just about our history ; we still have a thrive mining sector in my constituency , and some amazing opportunity to come . when most people think about my constituency , they be aware of the beach , the coast and all that we have to offer tourist , but the middle part of my community — what we often call the clay village , because of the history of china clay mining there — have far more in common with former mining village in the north of England than it do with the rest of the south of England . represent such a diverse constituency that contain so many different element present I with some interesting question and challenge . our mining history in Cornwall go back literally 4 , 000 year — it go back to the bronze age , when tin be discover and mine to create the bronze that be need in that era . by roman time , tin be already a much trade and seek - after commodity that be be extract in Cornwall . at that time , Cornwall be actually describe as one of the wealthy strip of land anywhere on earth , because of the incredible wealth bring by tin mining . by medieval time , Cornwall ' s status as the tin mining capital of the world have become so important , and the wealth it generate for the Crown have become so significant , that a set of special body and law be establish through the stannary court and parliament to protect that mining wealth . in the 18th and 19th century , Cornish tin and copper mining reach its zenith : the metal mine from Cornwall help to provide the raw material for the industrial revolution and be a major contributor to the economic growth of our nation , and indeed of the empire . Cornwall have also be at the forefront of pioneer in mining . the high - pressure steam engine be invent in Cornwall by Richard Trevithick , which lead to the creation of the iconic engine house . at one point there be over 200 engine house in Cornwall , and when cornish miner go around the world they take that technology with they — in many part of the world where mining take place , the same engine house can be see . we in Cornwall also invent the safety lamp : Humphry Davy ' s invention be another major bit of pioneer safety equipment for miner of the time . more recently , the extraction of china clay in my constituency have be at the heart of the cornish economy . Cornwall have the large and high - grade deposit of kaolin — also know as china clay — anywhere in the world , and for 250 year now have be extract , produce and export high - quality china clay . I be proud that several of my ancestor , and my grandfather and my uncle , work in the china clay industry . by 1910 , Cornwall be produce 50 % of the world ' s china clay , which revolutionise mid - Cornwall , the part of Cornwall that I be proud to represent . for example , the tiny village of West Polmear have only nine resident , but then Charles Rashleigh invest huge sum of money to create factory and home for the china clay worker , and very quickly it become a village of several hundred people . he rename the village Charlestown — not after the King , as many think , but after himself . many people will be familiar with Charlestown today as a thriving visitor centre , and will probably also recognise it as one of the place that be regularly feature in the BBC ' s " Poldark " series . that period also see the Cornish mining diaspora , where about 250 , 000 cornish miner and their family leave Cornwall to spread literally around the world . at that time , it be say that if you find a hole in the ground anywhere in the world , you would find a Cornishman at the bottom of it . today , statue commemorate cornish miner can be find in the state of Victoria in Australia ; and there be a Cornish waterwheel in British Columbia in Canada , a cornish cultural society in Mexico and , most importantly , a Cousin Jack ' s pasty shop in California . all be clear sign of how cornish miner spread around the world . however , like many of the story we have hear this afternoon , the clay village in my constituency , as with any mining sector , have face huge challenge as the number of people employ have fall . the china clay industry use to employ around 10 , 000 people in my constituency , but today that figure be just over 1 , 000 . that have present a number of challenge for those community , economically , socially , and in term of health . they be some of the most disadvantaged community in Cornwall , and indeed in the country . they face challenge in find job : many of the job we now have in Cornwall that be link to tourism or food production be lower pay and often seasonal . as other member have mention , the lack of good transport link also present a huge challenge . however , great work have be go on in recent year . we be see the regeneration of old china clay pit through the creation of a garden village , with the construction of about 1 , 300 new house , a new school and new workplace building , and real investment in that area . a new link road be be build through the china clay area , with £ 80 million of Government investment , which will improve connectivity . that be the single big investment in mid - Cornwall by any Government . the Government have also provide £ 50 million through the levelling - up fund to upgrade the branch line between Newquay and Par and connect it through to Truro and Falmouth — what we call the mid - cornwall metro — which will also greatly improve transport connectivity for many of those china clay village . we be also see significant investment in St Austell Hospital , which serve many of those community — a £ 15 million surgical hub be be build right now and will be open in the come month — and the redevelopment of Cornwall College in St Austell will serve many of those community , with a brand - new campus about to be build in the come month . the Government have recognise the need of those community . More than any previous Government , they have provide those village with investment to help to address some of the disadvantage they face . however , this be not just about the mining of the past . Cornwall have a great opportunity that I believe will breathe new life into and revive our mining sector : lithium extraction . we have know for 200 year that there be lithium in Cornwall — I have see old mining map from the 1800 show significant deposit of lithium in Cornwall — but it be only recently , because of the need for lithium for produce battery , particularly for electric vehicle , that there have be a market for the mineral . two company , Cornish Lithium and Imerys British Lithium , be look to develop the extraction of lithium , which will provide the UK with a secure domestic supply of what will be one of the most seek - after element in the decade to come . it be estimate that they could produce 50 % of the lithium that british car manufacturing will need for the battery we will have to produce . that be very good news not only for Cornwall , but for the UK . in one of his previous job , the Minister come to visit we , and he be aware of the opportunity present . it be not only a great economic opportunity , but I believe it provide we with an opportunity to ensure that the extraction of element go into the manufacturing of battery in the UK have the high environmental and ethical standard . one concern that local people sometimes raise with I be that lithium extraction do not have a particularly good reputation around the world either in the ethic apply to it or in its environmental impact . however , we can produce lithium in Cornwall to the high possible environmental standard and to the high ethical standard , which I think put we in a very strong competitive position in the global market . there be a great opportunity to revive the mining sector and give mid - Cornwall a great future for decade to come . be good at take thing out of the ground have be part of Cornwall ' s history , but a lot of the value and the higher - pay job have end up elsewhere . this time , we want to ensure that we capture as much as possible of the value of lithium extraction and that we keep it in Cornwall . we must create the well - pay job in Cornwall and keep the value there as much as we can , so that there be a lasting and positive impact on our economy . we be incredibly proud of Cornwall ' s heritage and history of mining — it be in our dna ; it be what our people have do for thousand of year — but there be also a huge opportunity for it to be part of Cornwall ' s future , and for Cornwall to play a significant part in our national prosperity once again . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for secure this important debate to mark the 40th anniversary of the 1984 miner ' strike . as we hear in his speech , he have fight for miner and their family since he be elect in 2010 . it be also a privilege to speak in this debate alongside my hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) . along with his entire community , he be out on strike for the whole year to save the british coal industry , and what he and other miner experience be a disgrace . it be brutal , it be callous and it be completely unjust , and I support my hon . friend in his repeat call for a public inquiry . if Margaret Thatcher be at the Dispatch Box today , I would ask she : " how could you have do this ? how could you have leave what be once real community , full of life and solidarity , in such a state of despair and disrepair ? how could you do this without any plan , without any reparation and without any transition — nothing for the miner and their family ? " those question apply to all those who enable she : her mp , her peer and her ally in the medium , who spin lie after lie about the miner and the mining industry . to all those who do not speak out , I ask : " how could you sit on the fence when this cultural and economic vandalism be take place ? " we must be clear about something else . miner have no choice but to strike because they know exactly what be at stake not just for themselves , but for their family , their village and the entire country even . at the very least , the Government owe an apology to the miner and their family . there be so much to cover in this debate , such as the aftermath of the strike , the numerous injustice , the wrongful conviction , the health inequality and the economic wrong that go on to this day . I know I will not be able to cover everything , but time permit , I will try to cover the role of my constituency , the role of woman in the north - east and the policy we need to see in coalfield area today . I be privileged — genuinely so — to represent the City of Durham , which host the Durham miner ' gala every year . it be the great demonstration of working - class solidarity in the world , and it would not be possible without the Durham Miners Association , which be headquarter at Redhills , also in my constituency . can I put on record my thank to the DMA , particularly Alan Mardghum and Stephen Guy , for its work in host the gala , its support to ex - miner , and its support to I and my office ? since 1871 , there have be only a few occasion when the gala have be cancel — during the world war , the general strike and , most recently , the pandemic . it be also cancel in 1984 , month after the strike begin . instead , a strike rally be hold in its place . one right - wing paper say that Durham look like " a city under siege " on that day , but the footage present another picture . it show banner and brass band with community and family march together — no different to any other gala . it be a small insight into the way the medium distort the reality of the miner and their community that even an event as joyous as a rally in Durham could be turn into something sinister by the press . that occur throughout the strike , and no more so than at Orgreave . we can not forget what happen on that day . to put it simply , we need a public inquiry . on a clear day , people at the gala can see the top of Durham cathedral from the racecourse where they assemble with their banner . hon . member will know that the cathedral and its community play an important role in the gala . the miner festival service , during which banner be bless by the Bishop of Durham , have be go on for as long as the gala itself . the banner be beautiful , and I be proud to have contribute to one and to have assist other in get theirs make . they represent people and place , and they can be as theological as they be political . in the south aisle of the cathedral be the miner ' memorial , which be dedicate to Durham miner who lose their life in the county ' s pit . next to it be a book of remembrance list all the man and boy who lose their life , and above it hang a miner ' s lamp . the cathedral play an important role in the strike , and no more so than through David Jenkins , the former Bishop of Durham . let we recall some of his word from his enthronement service in September 1984 . he say that " the miner must not be defeat . they be desperate for their community and this desperation force they to action . " Jenkins go on to speak about what happen when a mine close and the impact of that on the community . he put it bluntly when he say : " it be death , depression and desolation . " when I speak to my friend Dave Anderson , the former Member of Parliament for Blaydon and a former miner himself , he tell I that the effect of the pit closure could be see within month . in fact , in his speech follow the death of Margaret Thatcher , he say : " the village where I live have see coal mining for almost two century . in a matter of month after closure , we be grip by a wave of petty crime — burglary and car crime — mostly relate to drug . we have never recover from it . " — [ Official Report , 10 April 2013 ; Vol . 560 , c . 1672 . ] what Jenkins say be prophetic . although the mine be now close — the last mine in the City of Durham close in 1984 — we can still secure justice for those affect . for instance , the Minister could say at the Dispatch Box that he will introduce legislation to pardon the miner who be wrongly convict during the strike , because some of the story I have hear be as absurd as they be unjust . they include that of a Durham miner who be accuse of a breach of the peace for pour a cup of tea at the picket line . I repeat what I say at the start : we need a public inquiry . we also need economic justice for our community . the DMA tell I that a miner ' s job create many other job in the community and beyond , include at least five in the supply chain . if we reflect on this point , the destruction and recklessness of Thatcher ' s Government become unambiguous . I ask at the beginning how her government could do this to their own people . the mine be at the heart of the community . it be the primary source of employment and everyone know what the consequence be for child . it be an injustice that no transitional plan be make , as there be and still be in other country . Germany , for instance , take a long - term view about manufacturing ; why didn ' t we ? we have the potential to lead the world in alternative source of energy . we could have reskille and restructure our industry , but instead the Government choose destruction . and I say to the Labour Front Bench that we can still do this , and we should do this when we form the next government . thankfully , not all woman be like Margaret Thatcher during the strike . the contribution of working - class woman during that strike can not be underestimate . Heather Wood , an activist during the strike and a great friend to I , tell I that the strike might not have last so long have woman not be involve . in the north - east , woman ' s group like the one Heather be involve in be feed up to 1 , 000 people a day five day a week . they organise holiday for the child of the miner , provide childcare and food during the school holiday and present and toy for the child on the Christmas of 1984 , and help parent find school uniform when the autumn term begin , assist people with their household bill , and provide emotional support when thing get tough , as they so often do . it be truly heroic work , all do on a shoestring , all do in the spirit of working - class solidarity . and when the miner return to work in March 1985 the woman ' s support group in the north - east continue , and , importantly , their involvement in the strike politicise they and many go into public service , become councillor and community activist , and they be still do that today with the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign . I be one of those woman who be politicise by Margaret Thatcher . I always say Margaret Thatcher be the reason I join the Labour party and the reason I be stand here today . the young generation might be curious as to why we be all talk about Margaret Thatcher so much ; those who do not grow up in the north - east in one of those mining community might not quite understand how it feel , but she smite our community . that be how it feel to grow up under her reign . do my hon . friend agree that if all our mining community be cluster together into one region , even today that region would statistically be the poor region in the country , and that be what we be talk about today ? I could not agree more ; Margaret Thatcher politicise I too — to do exactly the opposite of what she do . since the destruction and closure of the pit we have see continuous health and economic inequality , and my hon . friend be right that we be one of the poor region , and we desperately need to do something because , as have be point out , the miner create the wealth of this country in the first place . the miner ' strike might not have be win , but the work class definitely be not defeat ; they be bruise but not defeat . People be still come to the gala — more than ever in fact — and former mining community be still have their banner bless at Durham Cathedral , and that mean something . those of we who represent the mining community will keep fight for justice for our community , and I repeat that there must be no less than a pardon for miner wrongly convict in the strike , a full public inquiry into the event of the strike , include those at Orgreave , and economic justice for miner and their family . the miner be not the enemy within . they come from family who fight in two world war . they represent the good of this country , and I be proud to represent they in Parliament . what we need now be a Labour Government to revitalise these coalfield area , deliver the justice that miner and their community deserve , and fulfil the word of our community — the past we inherit , the future we build . I want to declare an interest on a whole number of front for today ' s contribution , but first I thank my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for bring this topic to the House ' s attention . we have hear some fantastic speech here from everyone across the House . I want to declare an interest because I be probably the only miner out of 650 mp currently sit in the House . I be probably the only member who leave school at the age of 16 and go to the pit together with my father . my father be not one of those miner who say , " I ' m sorry , you canna gin doon the pit because it ' s a dangerous job . " my father , like lot of other , want and get their kid employment in the pit . that be the way it be , and I be absolutely proud : I be proud to be a miner ; I be proud to have spend my young day on the coalface six mile under the North sea , only 80 foot below the seabed ; and I have get some tremendous memory . I be really proud of what we have achieve : what we achieve collectively , as community , as the National Union of Mineworkers ; how we support each other and would not turn our back on friend and colleague and those in most need . we be a real fighting force in the community , not just in the north - east , not just in Durham and Northumberland , but right across the country . it have be mention that Margaret Thatcher state clearly that the miner be the enemy within . despite people be offend by that , I see it as a badge of honour . I see that as a badge of honour because I oppose everything that the Tories be do right up to the miner ' strike and I oppose everything , or nearly everything , they have do since then . I be one of the enemy within . I remember be on the picket line with my father — who be no long with we — my brother , my cousin and my friend . the only crime we be commit be to fight for job and the future . it be never about wage , term and condition ; it be about the right to work and the right to ensure that our community would be secure in the future . and we get absolutely blitz for do so . our pride turn to great anger when we think about how the Government at the time — the Thatcher Government — turn the whole state against hard - work individual , their family and their community and against their only mean of survive and the way in which their community be economically stimulate , and when I think about the way in which the police , and some say the armed force , be use against miner during the miner ' s strike . I do not just witness it ; I be part of it . I see the brutality , and I could give a number of personal tale that I would prefer not to at this moment in time . but I be proud , and I be still proud , to represent the mining community of south - east Northumberland . I live in and represent Ashington , know as " coal town " because it be perhaps the big coal - produce town in Europe if not the world , and there be lot of pit in place include Bedlington , Newbiggin , Morpeth , Stakeford and Guide Post . we can look at how the miner be tret during the strike and at the fact that 40 year on , we still have 11 , 000 who be arrest by the police . there be a thousand sack miner , and many of they never get employment again anywhere . many be acquit because of dishonest police practice and police evidence . again , I personally witness the horror of the Government policy against my own community , my own family and I personally . the call for a pardon for the mining industry be accept in Scotland , which be a fantastic move forward , and we need to look to do that here . I personally do not want a pardon , because I do what I want to do because I want to support my community , and for many year . I do not want anybody tell I they be sorry I be arrest , because I would not believe they . the life of many miner and lot of other people be absolutely shatter as a result of the miner ' strike . I know people who be arrest , who have never be in trouble with the police before , and who end up in police cell . the plea bargaining mean either they go to prison or they accept a charge for something they have not be involve with at all . it be so corrupt . it be absolutely disgraceful . that be why we need a public inquiry . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that one of the thing that the documentary and today ' s debate will achieve , I hope , be for the young generation to learn more about this period in time , and that it be as close as we will ever get to become a police state ? if man be travel across the country in a car , they could be pull over and question about where they be go and even arrest . we need people to understand that that be what happen , when all our community be do be fight for their job . I have to say that I can not watch those documentary ; it be too emotional . I agree with every sentiment that my hon . friend express . we should never forget what happen . a number of my hon . friend have mention the Durham miner , the Durham miner ' gala and specifically Alan , Stephen and the whole team there , and I have huge admiration for they . what a wonderful day the Durham miner ' gala be , with hundred of thousand of individual fly their banner , brass band , music , celebration and speech remember the mining industry . I have get a lot of time for the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign , which have fight valiantly to seek justice for individual involve in Orgreave . I have lot of admiration and support for the woman against Pit Closures . in particular , somebody who go unnoticed a lot be a lady from my patch in south - east Northumberland , Ann Lilburn . she be know as the housewife from Hadston , and she be absolutely fantastic lead the woman of south - east Northumberland and later the woman against Pit Closures . I have to say , if it have not be for the woman during the miner ' strike , I be not sure how long it would have last . their support be absolutely fabulous . I pay tribute to a man who have sadly pass on , Rick Sumner , who for year support the National Justice for Mineworkers campaign , which be to remember sack miner . a whole number of issue need to and will be raise , but I want to discuss the mineworker ' pension scheme . the Labour party manifesto of 2017 and 2019 agree to redress the huge anomaly that everybody will mention . again , I declare an interest , as I be the only current member of the mineworker ' pension scheme in this place . I be still a member , so I declare that interest . the mineworker ' pension scheme be defer wage , like any pension , and that should be recognise . the 50 : 50 split come in 1994 , and that be a crime . we have have £ 4 . 4 billion siphon off and trousere by the Tory Government . let we be honest , the BEIS Committee recommendation be not too hard to accept . the money be already in the fund , and the BEIS Committee say that that money should be redistribute to member , many of whom be on less than £ 85 a week . some 50 % be on less than £ 65 a week , 25 % be on less than £ 35 a week , and 10 % be on less than £ 10 a week . let we get they pay and make sure we do the right business . one thing that need to be focus on be compensation , as be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) . mining be a tough , hard and severe job , and people have have severe personal problem and consequence as result . the Government impose wholesale vindictive industrial austerity on the mining community . I give a big thank you to the NUM and the advice centre up and down the country for the fantastic work they continue to do . we have to look at the miner ' pneumoconiosis scheme , which be awful . it be so difficult for member to attract compensation , even though it be one of the most dreadful disease that we can ever imagine . can we not get the Department for Work and Pensions , the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , the coal industry liability team , Nabarro and the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council together in a room to see how we can get these payment make ? People be now suffer greatly as a result of work underground , and we must make sure that they can gain compensation without the default position be to deny any claim . we have issue with CISWO , level up , the destruction of the mining community and much more . to conclude , I understand that the Minister ' s two grandfather be miner . I think that be right ; I have read that somewhere , although I be not sure how true it be , but he will understand the situation . we need to look at level up . we need to look at a pardon for miner . we need justice for the MPS . we need a public inquiry into police of the strike . we need a wholesale review of compensation scheme in the main and , in particular , of the pneumoconiosis scheme . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and the hon . member for Leigh ( James Grundy ) , who be no long in his place , for secure today ' s debate . it be always a real pleasure to follow our miner , my hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) . Coalmining be a mainstay of the economy for almost a century . in South Shields , we have St Hilda ' s , Whitburn , Harton and Westoe collierie . it be therefore no surprise that people in my constituency would be hard - press not to know or be relate to a miner . generation of family work down our pit . our former pitman will testify that it be not a glamorous job ; it be dirty , hard and dangerous graft , but those negative be well worth it for the steady income , the camaraderie , the friendship and the community that they build around our pit . that way of life and the social bond be the thing that all former pitman and their family say they miss the most . Thatcherism have many ugly legacy , but the miner ' strike of 1984 to 1985 be one of the most visceral , personal and define moment of the 20th century . it be the moment of the strong resistance against her industrial vandalism and the hollowing out of our mining community . not content with close our dock and shipyard , the pit suddenly become uneconomical , she say . those who try to resist this blatant destruction of our community be arrest and convict . this weaponisation of the state against ordinary man and woman fight for their livelihood during the strike draw worry parallel with today ' s anti - strike legislation . it be why we need a public inquiry into Orgreave , and it be why this Government should introduce similar legislation to that introduce in the Scottish Parliament pardon those convict of matter relate to the strike . all they be try to do be save their job . I know all too well what unemployment — or the constant threat of it — can do both mentally and physically : it be utterly soul - destroy . there be one heartbreaking story that all of we in South Shields be sadly familiar with : that of a lovely family man and colliery engineer make redundant who , after drop his child off at school , put a chain across the front door , write a goodbye letter to his family , climb up the stair , go into his bathroom , pour petrol over his clothe and , with a match , set himself alight . in 1993 , his pit — Westoe pit — close , signal the end of not just coalmine in South Tyneside but a tradition and a way of life . our memory of the solidarity of the trade union movement and the rejection of the trickle - down economic that have prove such a driver of inequality in our region have endure , because the challenge face former coalfield community be not consign to the history book ; they have deepen alongside regional inequality . the economic gap between coalfield area and the rest of the UK have be widen considerably over the last decade . average earning for worker in former coalfield area be 7 % below the national average . that be the legacy of de - industrialisation . south Shields , as a post - industrial and coastal constituency , have face and continue to face several challenge . those be challenge that we have prove time and again that we will always overcome . in South Shields , we do not wait for Government help that never come — we get on with stuff . our port of Tyne be now the base of the big offshore wind farm in the world . we be home to hundred of small business , and we have be instrumental in the fight against poverty , pave the way for holiday club and set up a mobile community supermarket . the Government ' s levelling - up rhetoric ring hollow in my constituency , which have be reject for town fund and freeport bid and two round of level - up funding . the level of child poverty in South Shields remain stubbornly high at 40 % and unemployment across South Tyneside be 6 . 7 % , which be high than the north - east average , yet in the Chancellor ' s recent Budget he allocate London ' s Canary Wharf double the amount of funding that our entire region will get . the privatisation of once - nationalise industry that follow our pit closure have do nothing but deepen inequality , deliver profit for shareholder and decimate service that we all rely on . that be happen at the same time that the Government be pocket the miner ' pension surplus . More than £ 4 billion have be give to the Government , with £ 420 million of that in the last three year alone . the Government keep say that we need to strike a fair balance , but there be nothing fair about it when miner and their widow be leave destitute on as little as £ 18 a week . we should not be surprised , because as the WASPI woman know all too well , this Government have form when it come to pension grabbing . our miner be prosecute and make redundant , and see the heart rip out of their community , and now they be be rob of their pension , their retirement and the dignity that they all deserve . we know all too well in South Shields that if you close a pit , you kill a community . our proud mining heritage will always remain because of people like Gary Wilkinson , a local film maker , Bob Olley , our local artist , and Alan Mardghum and Stephen Guy from the Durham Miners ' Association , and place like South Shields Museum . thank to they , the generation who follow will know that underneath the South Shields street , housing estate and field they walk on , there be once thousand of pitman gather coal to power our country . we be proud of the past that we have inherit in South Shields , and it be one that we will continue to use to build our future — one that we will build with the next Labour Government . may I congratulate the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) on secure this important debate ? I be proud to have be bear and bring up in Dailly , which be a coalmine village in South Ayrshire , alongside the former mining town and village of Cumnock , New Cumnock , Dalmellington and Patna that be also in my constituency . in the 1960 and early 1970 , my late father Peter Dorans DCM be employ as a coalminer at one of the three mine surround the village . he work at the coalface . as a coalminer , my father suffer , as many do , from common industrial disease include vibration white finger and carpal tunnel syndrome from the frequent use of heavy drilling equipment , and partial deafness . up to the day of his death , every time he cough , he bring up coal dust from his lung . many thousand of coalminer suffer other medical condition include emphysema and breathing - relate illness . many lose limb and suffer from other life - limit condition and injury and early death as a result of the work condition in the mine at those time . many miner also lose their life in mining disaster . I will highlight just two from my constituency . in September 1950 , the Knockshinnoch mining disaster occur near New Cumnock when a glaciated lake fill with liquid peat and moss flood the pit , trap more than 100 miner underground for a number of day . thirteen man die . in November 1962 , at the Barony colliery near Cumnock , a mine shaft collapse trap two contract worker , Thomas Fyvie and George Wade , together with two colliery employee , Henry Green and John McNeil . despite valiant and sustain effort to rescue they , they remain entomb deep underground to this day . I pay tribute to those man and all who have lose their life and suffer appal life - shorten health condition and injury as a result of work in the coalmine . the debt owe by this country to the man who risk their life to power the country and economy for generation be immense . not only do coalminer and their family make that possible ; they pay a terrible price over the century in loss of life and limb , and in shortened life cause by the brutal working condition and inadequate housing and health service , just to enable other to become wealthy — some obscenely so . without doubt , in the last two century , robust , hard - work , proud man work in incredibly difficult circumstance for what be a paltry wage — they often rely on meeting unattainable , backbreake daily or weekly target to earn a barely liveable wage . despite those difficulty , the miner and their family create and sustain strong , supportive community in the face of adversity and come together to look after each other in difficult time . [ interruption . ] excuse I . large - scale coal production end in my constituency when the two large coalmine in the area — the Killoch and the Barony — cease production in 1987 and 1989 respectively , with the loss of thousand of mining job and the knock - on effect of the loss of countless job in the supply chain and the local economy . the hon . Gentleman be make really important point about the loss of life in mining disaster , a number of which occur in my constituency too . however , there be the ongoing legacy of industrial disease . yesterday , I speak to some miner from the midland , who be lobby Parliament and point out the injustice of the current scheme . one of they be suffer from chest disease — chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . to qualify for compensation , the requirement be 20 year of underground work , but he have work only 19 year , so he be exclude . there be a number of other example like that . order . if the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) find that he be have difficulty speak and want to take some time , I could move to the next speaker and come back to he . I think that I will be okay , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have have a drink , so I will continue . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I totally agree that the system be terribly unjust and that those miner should be properly compensate . with great difficulty , I resist the temptation to mention the part play in the demise of the coal industry by the action of the late former Prime Minister , Margaret Thatcher . [ interruption . ] the closure of the coalmine and the subsequent — [ interruption . ] I be sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I will take a minute . I call Alex Davies - Jones . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) . as the proud chair of the all - party parliamentary group on coalfield community , it be a privilege to speak in this debate . I put on record my thank to the vice - chair , my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and the hon . member for Leigh ( James Grundy ) , who sadly be no long in his place , for secure today ' s important debate . I also thank the other vice - chair , the right hon . member for Midlothian ( Owen Thompson ) , who be in his place , and the former vice - chair , the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) , who have to resign follow his elevation to the Government Whips Office . before I begin , it be important to emphasise that former coalfield area make up a significant part of the country , span Wales , Scotland and England , with a combined population large than Scotland , at around 5 . 7 million people . these area be far too big to be ignore . as the daughter and granddaughter of former miner , this topic be of great significance to I , and to many of my constituent in Pontypridd and Taff Ely . this year be the 40th anniversary of the start of the miner ' strike . my father , who be at Orgreave , be one of those who go out on strike . the value he stand for — community , dignity and fairness — be the same value I seek to uphold . even a generation on , the pain for those affect be still raw , yet the legacy of coalmining be about so much more than the miner ' strike . Coal be no long dig in our area , but that rich seam that power Britain ' s industrial revolution still run deep in the vein of our community . the closure of the mine may be in the past , but the people live with the consequence be not . they be live , breathe community . for the generation , which include I , that have grow up since the strike , the challenge be different . Coalfield community no long suffer the mass unemployment of the ' 80 and ' 90 , but be we to believe that this change be progress ? truth be tell , many former coalfield area still lag behind much of the rest of the country . in some place , the number of job lose may have be replace , but in far too many case the respected skilled mining and engineering job have be replace with low quality , poorly pay employment . that be starkly highlight by the all - party group ' s recent report , " next step in Levelling up the former Coalfields " . I be immensely grateful to my colleague on both side of the House who help shape that report , and I pay tribute to the Industrial Communities Alliance , without which the inquiry and subsequent report would not have be possible . the report represent a pivotal moment in the coalfield regeneration agenda , and set out key step for improve former mining community . for the sake of time , I will focus on just a few . strong policy be need to grow local economy in our former coalfield . that mean an end to the city - centric model of growth . let we be clear : the idea that growth in the city will inevitably trickle down to our town and mining village be utter nonsense . Coalfield community have a strong identity . in many case , if people have to move away for work or commute to nearby city , it be because they have no choice . the Government ' s levelling - up initiative be , sadly , just a slogan . we need to be honest about what small , short - term pot of money be expect to achieve . there need to be a new model of local and regional development that place the emphasis on grow local economy , and that provide long - term financial certainty to local authority and other partner and stakeholder . one way in which we can develop coalfield economy be by invest in suitable premise for small and medium - sized business . the Coalfields Regeneration Trust have a successful model of investing in unit for small firm , and recycle the profit to support the local community . the wind up of the coalfield enterprise fund and the coalfield growth fund have result in an unexpected windfall for the Treasury of some £ 15 million . that may be small change to the Treasury , but for our community it could be transformational . it be therefore disappointing that the Government have so far refuse to return that money to the coalfield to support a try and test investment programme . while I be on the topic of money come back to our community , I briefly want to mention CISWO — the Coal Industry Social Welfare Organisation — which be set up to support asset follow the closure of our mine . the asset — our miner ' welfare hall , play field , facility and village hall — be pay for by the miner and bestow in trust to that organisation . sadly , so many member in this place have share frustration about the woeful and appalling operation , management and engagement of the charity . I urge the Minister to look into this as a matter of urgency and to talk to the charity Minister about what can be do . enough be enough . we need direct action about exactly what be happen in our community as a result of this charity ' s action . let I express further disappointment , as other have , in the government once again reject the recommendation of the Business and Trade Committee about renegotiate the mineworker ' pension scheme . the Treasury have already surpass £ 5 billion of surplus . surely , at a time when many family not just in my constituency but across the country face hardship in the cost of living crisis , it be only fair that the miner who contribute to the scheme be entitle to a fair share of the surplus . in addition to the Committee ' s recommendation , the APPG recently celebrate the publication of the " State of the Coalfields " report , commission by the Coalfields Regeneration Trust . the CRT do fantastic work to breathe life back into our former coalfield , and I be proud to join the organisation to celebrate the launch . however , its finding only reiterate the necessity of the ICA ' s recommendation . for example , the city - centric factor that I mention be back up by the report ' s finding that more old people live in our former coal - field than young people , with young people graduate and move away to city to seek job opportunity and , sadly , not return . these factor be push our former coalfield even far behind , as the employment gap cause an increase in benefit claimant and people have no choice but to commute to city for work . the report find that , among the four focus area analyse , south Wales perform the bad for employment shortfall and for the number of out - of - work benefit claimant , which be of deep concern to I as a south Wales MP . upon individual inspection we can see progress for our former coalfield , but they lag behind the rest of the UK . the report find that the average hourly earning for former coalfield area be 6 % to 7 % low than the national average , which be shocking . we truly have a lot of work to do , but thank to this fantastic report we have a way to do it , and a way to navigate it have be pave . I understand more than most the importance of devolution and the power of give local community the autonomy to make change . however , in the case of coal tip safety , it be anomalous that the Welsh Government should be financially responsible for address a pre - devolution issue when other legacy of the coal industry , such as water pollution , gas leak and pit shaft safety , be the responsibility of the UK Government - fund Coal Authority . because of the landscape of the Welsh valley , our community be more at risk than those in any other part of the UK . the prospect of any repeat of the terrible tragedy of Aberfan be truly unthinkable . as a result , the burden of make coal tip safe have fall disproportionately on the Welsh Government and local authority in Wales . that can not be fair . when I speak of value such as community , dignity and fairness , it be not in the vague , philosophical sense ; these recommendation be the practical application of those value . just as my father stand up for his community 40 year ago , it be incumbent upon we to stand up for our coalfield community . we must take the next step need to ensure that they be fair and more prosperous for the next 40 year . would the hon . gentleman like to finish his speech ? I would , Madam Deputy Speaker ; thank you . I will take it slowly and try not to speak with too much passion . the consequence of coalmine closure and deprivation in former coalmining community be well document . accord to the 2020 Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation , coalfield area be still over - represent among Scotland ' s most disadvantaged community . of the 610 coalfield area where datum be gather , 31 % be among Scotland ' s most deprived . however , in east Ayrshire , in my constituency , that figure be a shocking 40 % in 2016 , and it remain the same in 2020 . within the overall measure of deprivation , coalfield community have low income , bad health and low education and employment outcome than those in 80 % of scottish community . Coalfield community across the UK need and deserve far great funding from the central Treasury to significantly increase access to health promotion and care , to provide the good school and college and access to university , and to stimulate economic activity , with an emphasis on high skill and high pay . the Coalfields Regeneration Trust be launch in 1999 as an independent charity design to fund project that would increase access to employment opportunity , education and skill training , improve health and wellbee and develop enterprise . it have commission two report to examine how former coalfield area compare with the rest of the country on a range of social and economic indicator . the most recent of these report be publish in 2019 , and its finding shockingly include the fact that average life expectancy in the former coalfield be around a year less than the national average , and there be a great incidence of long - term health problem . former coalfield continue to have large number of people of work age out of work and claim incapacity benefit . growth in the number of business be generally slow than in the rest of the UK and the employment rate in the coalfield be below the national average . all the coalfield of England , Scotland and Wales have an occupational structure that be skew towards manual occupation and low level of high - skilled job . the finding be a damming indictment of how former coalfield community have be neglect by successive government for the past 50 year . for those reason alone , a concerted effort be require by the UK Parliament , the devolve Administrations and local council . they must have a joint focus on development and improvement across the board in these community . much have be make of the current Government ' s levelling - up agenda , which be design to address the long - stand problem of the UK ' s regional economic disparity . several fund have be set up under the levelling - up agenda , include the levelling - up fund , the community renewal fund , the share prosperity fund and investment zone . however , none be target specifically at former coalmining area . in June 2023 the all - party parliamentary group on coalfield community publish the report , " next step in Levelling up the former Coalfields " with the aim of examine the need of former coalfield community and steering policy to improve the life of resident . the report make 12 recommendation , cover economic development , public investment , infrastructure , environmental issue , housing and skill , all of which would make a significant difference to my constituency and the rest of the United Kingdom . I be sure that the Minister be well aware of those 12 recommendation so I will not list they all , but I say to he that I strongly agree with all of they . I ask he to indicate what progress have be or will be make in implement they . in conclusion , the time to recognise the contribution of mining community over the century to the economy of the United Kingdom , and the hardship endure by so many in those community , be now . I be grateful for the work of East Ayrshire Council , South Ayrshire Council , the Coalfields Regeneration Trust and other publicly fund voluntary organisation and charity for their continue work in restore pride , a sense of community and hope to those community . I also acknowledge the work carry out in my constituency by the Coalfield Communities Landscape Partnership , work with East Ayrshire Council and the Galloway and Southern Ayrshire UNESCO Biosphere , deliver a significant number of regeneration project , include biodiversity and landscape output , people - engagement activity , local interest group , training workshop and volunteer activity . however , that be not in itself enough to restore the former mining community to the vibrant community they once be . the former coalmine community , which once power the industrial revolution and contribute immensely to the wealth of the United Kingdom , must now be prioritise , receive significant investment , and be support and develop to ensure that they once again become thriving and sustainable community able to face the future with hope , aspiration and confidence . I therefore call on the Government to significantly increase levelling - up funding , or preferably introduce new specific funding , and set aside the significant resource that be urgently need to regenerate former coalmining community and improve the life and opportunity of the people in my community and across the country . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) . I thank the hon . member for Leigh ( James Grundy ) and my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for secure the debate . my hon . Friend speak poignantly about the rich tapestry of community organisation that tie together coalfield community . although I be not around when the coalmine in Clara Vale , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , be open , I spend a lot of my youth go up there to visit family member . whether it be the pit banner on the wall , the Methodist church or the community group , the heritage of coalmine community be alive and well in the north - east , and be champion by people like my hon . friend the Member for Easington . as the new coalfield Member of Parliament , I have the distinct privilege of represent the entirety of the Selby super - pit , which in its time be regard as the most technologically advanced coalmine in Europe . the last coalmine in my constituency be still produce coal within the last decade . Kellingley colliery — or the Big K , as it be know — be the last deep - pit coalmine to close in Britain , with the loss of over 600 job . so in Selby we know a thing or two about coal , and we be live through the consequence of what the industry ' s end can bring , both for our community , and for ex - mineworker and their family . I would like to send special thank to the Selby branch of the NUM advice service for all the work it do to advance its member ' interest . we inherit a proud past in Selby , but we in this House need to consider the future that we hope to build as proud representative of coalfield community . our work be twofold : to provide dignity , recognition and support to ex - mineworker and their family ; and to unlock the economic and social potential for future generation in area , such as mine , where coal be once king . nowhere be those question of justice more pressing than in relation to the mineworker ' pension scheme , which many member have speak about so eloquently today . since 1994 , successive government have receive over £ 4 billion from the scheme , and be due to receive at least another £ 1 . 9 billion in due course . yet the mineworker who build the profitability of Britain ' s coal industry and the wealth of our entire nation have not get a fair share of its proceed . during the 2019 general election — since when , I should note , the conservative party have receive no democratic mandate from the electorate — Boris Johnson say categorically that the Tories would make sure that no " miner sign up to the Mineworkers ' Pension Scheme be out of pocket … we will make sure all their cash be fully protect and return , I have look into it and we will ensure that ' s do . " that be a solemn , black - and - white , categorical assurance make by a conservative Prime Minister to coalfield community . it be the reason some mineworker decide to vote for Mr Johnson ' s party in 2019 . it be the reason some member on the conservative Benches be sit here at all . have collect his vote and go back down to London , what do that Prime Minister proceed to do about the promise he have make to coalfield community such as mine ? absolutely nothing . it be yet another damn example of the age - old conservative habit of break promise make to northern community in England and to the british people overall ; a final kick in the tooth for mineworker to endure . they have live for 40 year with the legacy of Thatcherism and be face with the indignity in retirement of be peddle Tory false hope . meaningful MPS reform require a Government with empathy and a desire to see that justice be do . that be why I be pleased to see the Labour party ' s ambition to reform the scheme to provide ex - mineworker with the dignity in retirement that they deserve . but we can not have dignity without our health . if I could encourage Ministers to take away one thing from this debate , it would be to try to bring great compassion and great speed to the assessment of ex - mineworker for industrial illness by the Department for Work and Pensions . my team and my local NUM branch have be fight hard for Mr Anthony Rock , who be receive a percentage of his industrial injury disablement benefit for pneumoconiosis , but not for his progressive massive fibrosis which be know to develop directly from his condition . there have be egregious and unacceptable delay from the DWP in the several claim that Mr Rock have make regard his illness . he be become seriously unwell , so I would appreciate it if the Minister could meet I to discuss how we can advance his case as quickly as possible . I wish that Mr Rock ' s case be an isolated one , but sadly his experience be all too common for mineworker across the country . it be time for the DWP to shape up and take responsibility for treat mineworker with the respect they deserve . finally , and on a note of optimism , I recently have the pleasure of visit the Coalfield Regeneration Trust ' s business park at the site of the former Kellingley colliery . it have manage to turn a site where 600 people lose their job into a thriving business centre for Yorkshire ' s small and medium - sized enterprise , employ local young people in well - pay and skilled employment . that work must not just continue but expand and flourish , because it have be prove that it work and it benefit community such as mine . the proposal by the all - party parliamentary group on coalfield community and the CRT to return CGF and CEF fund to allow it to expand its work should receive extremely thoughtful consideration from member across this House . for place such as Selby , our value lie no long in the coal beneath our foot , but in the spirit of our people and community ; a legacy bequeath to we by our coalfield heritage . the industrial pride , skill , ingenuity , solidarity and communal spirit that be hardwire into such community be some of the most potent tool we have to build a well future for our country , both back home in Yorkshire and across the length of Great Britain . it be our responsibility in this House to do all we can to empower coalfield community to realise that enormous potential . I thank all member from across the House who be do incredible work to achieve that aim . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) , and I commend my good friend the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for secure the debate . I be proud of my constituency , which have a rich and vibrant tapestry of mining heritage weave through it , not only in the town and village that make it up but in those of we who inhabit they today . from the very depth of the earth , our townspeople toil to fuel the industrial revolution , shape the landscape of our community and leave an everlasting mark on our collective consciousness . however , alongside the moment of triumph , we must also accept and confront the tragedy that have befall our mining community and family . the Auchengeich pit disaster of 1959 will always stand as a poignant reminder of the danger face by man in the pursuit of bread for the table . every year I be humble and honour to stand alongside the former councillor Willie Doolan and all the member of the local committee as we commemorate that mine disaster , remember the man who be lose and their survive family , many of whom still live in the local area today . their tireless effort to ensure that the tragedy of the Auchengeich disaster be never forget be a testament to the resilience and strength of our community , and I thank each and every one of they for all that they do . similarly , the Cardowan Colliery disaster of 1932 give we all a stark reminder of the human cost of industrial progress . the ongoing work of my constituent Alice Morton and Campbell Provans in organise a memorial service to commemorate the life lose in that devastating event be , I be sure , always greatly appreciate by member on both side of the House . as the grandson of a miner , I be raise on story of the pit and its man , of the graft and the toil , and of the togetherness and camaraderie that we have hear so much about today . my grandad be out of the pit by the time I come along , but the scar of pit life remain . if I listen quietly enough , I can still hear his cough today ; but not even the damage of lung ravage by silicosis could dampen his love and affection for his mining friend and comrade . I be sorry that I have not be able to take part fully in the debate , but I have a copy of a census return that contain the first mention of the Grants from Ulster have settle in Scotland . my great - grandfather , at the age of 19 , come over to work in a pit not far from my hon . friend ' s constituency . my hon . friend have mention some of the appalling disaster that have affect the mine in his constituency , as well as my constituency and other . do he agree that there should be a great recognition of the almost unbelievable bravery show by miner who go back into burn pit to look for their friend ? be it not time that we give they the recognition that their heroism deserve ? my hon . friend have make an important point . every time I attend the commemoration and hear the real , live story , I wonder why there be not commemoration all over the UK to honour those brave , brave man and , indeed , their family . I hope that friend on both side of the House will accept that the Scottish National party will always stand up in unwavere solidarity with those who choose to strike during the tumultuous time of the past . we recognise the hardship endure by miner and their family , who often face financial hardship and societal stigma as a result of their principle stance . the fact that they stand tall in the face of adversity , fight not only for their own livelihood but for the future of generation to come , will never be forget or underestimate by any of we on these Benches , or , indeed , in the mining community the length and breadth of Scotland , so it be with a heavy heart that we must acknowledge the neglect and disregard show by the UK Government towards this share history . the Scottish Government , with the power available to they , have take significant step to alleviate the burden be carry by our mining community . through the Miners ' Strike ( Pardons ) ( Scotland ) Act 2022 , Scotland become the first of the four nation of the UK to offer a collective and automatic pardon to those convict during the strike . that landmark legislation serve as a beacon of reconciliation , offer some solace to those who bear the scar of past injustice . it be imperative that the UK Government now follow suit , take responsibility for the action of the National Coal Board and provide compensation for those affect . it would be too late for my grandad , with his silicosis - scar lung , but there be people who could benefit , and it be time that the Government put their house in order and sort this out . I hope that the Minister will comment on that later . while the Scottish Government have do what they can within their power , the responsibility for devise a compensation scheme rest squarely with the Government in this place . we also continue to press for a UK - wide public inquiry into the strike , ensure that the voice of miner and their family be hear and their grievance address . only through collective action and unity can we achieve meaningful change and deliver justice to those who have be deny it for so long . as we look to the future , we must ensure that no community be leave behind in the transition to a more sustainable economy . the recent revelation that the fantastic levelling - up bid make by the Summerlee Museum of Scottish Industrial Life , a heritage museum in Coatbridge , be reject by this place be a stark reminder of the indifference with which our mining heritage be still treat by this Government and , indeed , this House . the project would have secure the preservation of our historical mining past , well into our future , and its rejection speak volume about the lack of recognition afford to the sacrifice make by generation of miner and their family . in the face of neglect and indifference , we must stand firm in defence of our mining heritage . we on these Benches demand that the Government recognise the importance of preserve our shared history , and provide the necessary support to ensure that future generation can learn from the sacrifice of the past . let we together ensure that the legacy of our mining community be never forget , and that the voice of those who come before we continue to resonate through the hall of history . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) on the work that he do to secure the debate , and for his admirable opening speech . accord to the excellent report " the State of the Coalfields 2024 " , commission by the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , the former coalfield account for 8 % of the population in England , 10 % in Scotland and 25 % in Wales . that give we an idea of the scale in Wales — one in four people there live in a former coalfield area — and of the importance of today ' s debate . mining have be a dominant part of Welsh life for generation . my grandfather be a miner , my uncle be a miner , and my father be a Bevin boy who be send down the local pit during the second world war . there be mine across my constituency from the sea on one side to the sea on the other — hendy , Llangennech , Bynea , Llwynhendy , Tumble , Cross Hands , Pontyberem , Ponthenri and Pontyates , and in Llanelli itself and Burry Port , with coal being export from those two busy port — and , of course , mining have shape our politic . my predecessor as MP for Llanelli , the great Jim Griffiths , speak passionately from his own experience of the hardship that he see in the mining community in which he be bring up — the effect of unemployment , poverty , malnutrition , sickness and industrial injury — and take up the fight to bring about the reform that be need to help those who fall on hard time . he speak and write about " the Price Wales pay for Poverty " : maternal mortality , malnutrition , overcrowding , condemn housing , unemployment , silicosis , and the terrible affliction of tuberculosis . he also highlight the wealth take from Wales by coal owner , royalty owner and landlord , and demand a proper response and resource to deal with the country ' s problem . when serve in the 1945 Labour Government , Jim Griffiths introduce the Family Allowances Act 1945 , under which money be pay directly to mother . he subsequently introduce the National Insurance Act 1946 and an Act close to his heart , the National Insurance ( Industrial Injuries ) Act , which be very much bear out of the suffering and difficulty of injure miner that he have witness and which introduce extra benefit for people injure at work . that Act be universal , in that it cover the entire workforce . it provide injury benefit for six month , disability benefit for the permanently injure , and a death benefit for dependant . it also set up tribunal to assess case , rather than claimant ' have to take on all the responsibility for push their own case . now , some 80 year later and some 40 year on from the miner ' strike , as be document in the report I mention early , we have shockingly not eliminate all the problem . there be still high level of poverty , malnutrition , unemployment and sickness in former mining area , and there be still much to be do to enable those area to enjoy the same level of wealth as other . we know of many of the problem that our former mining community face , scatter as they be in south Wales up and down steep valley . many be in what be now pleasant rural location , and some contain quite spacious council or former council - own property , but their location be clearly intend to be close to the mine where people work . now , investor , developer and young people all want to be near the main artery or in the main town , and it be so much more difficult to attract inward investment into the more remote mining community . furthermore , they be often spread out in different location along the valley , make it very difficult to provide service , and often there be a considerable distance up or down the valley to get to the most basic of facility , such as doctor ’ surgery or shop . nowadays , there be more opportunity for people to work remotely and to set up business that use the internet , but some of our mining community also suffer from inadequate broadband speed and a poor mobile phone signal . I want to highlight some specific problem , start with my serious concern about the drop in quality of former miner ' concessionary coal . I have meet miner in my area who use to receive good - quality smokeless coal , but now receive very poor - quality coal , which be cause considerable problem and expense . the coal be block up chimney , mean that people have to get their chimney sweep more often and at additional expense , and the fume and fine ash that it give off pose serious health risk . in fact , the smell and the fume that emerge from chimney be so bad that they be cause neighbour down the street to complain about the smoke . when I look into this issue , I find that there be not an isolated batch of coal and that the problem be widespread . on contact Wayne Thomas of the South Wales NUM , I learn that as stockpile of anthracite have be run down , coal of an inferior quality be supply by Russia . because of the war in Ukraine and the sanction against Russia , which I fully support , the supply be halt and an alternative source have to be find . I understand that the coal now come from Peru and be supply in a chimney - compress duff , use molasse as a bind agent . the NUM say that such coal give off a very fine ash , which cause respiratory problem — obviously not good for ex - miner , many of whom already have breathing problem . across the UK , the complaint be similar to those of former miner in my area , who complain that the smoke from chimney smell funny and that the coal cause blockage . the NUM have twice meet the head of the coal liability unit at the Department for Business and Trade to discuss this matter , but there have be no news of any improved source , and well source must be find . I say to the Minister that miner have work hard in a difficult and dangerous job , and that they be entitle to receive decent concessionary coal . it be shock that former miner , many of whom be elderly , be now be give poisonous , poor - quality coal , which give off fume and ash that be bad for their health , and which clog up their chimney . as a matter of urgency , I beg he to do everything he can to source decent coal for our former miner . it be a Government responsibility . turn to the miner ' pension , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) and for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) for their work . I hope the Minister be aware of the former BEIS Committee ' s report on the mineworker pension scheme and its recommendation — namely , that the 50 / 50 surplus sharing arrangement should be comprehensively review to ensure that miner get their fair share , and that the £ 1 . 2 billion reserve fund should be give back to the pensioner immediately . it be now three year since that report , and former miner be not get any young , but there have still not be any action from the Government . I ask the Minister to look again at the scheme , and to ensure that miner get their fair share . I turn now to the coal tip legacy . I be a very impressionable small child at the time of the Aberfan coal disaster on 21 October 1966 . I be the same age as some of the child bury under the slag heap as it engulf the school , and I will never forget the image on our black - and - white telly of father desperately try to dig out their child . follow that , we see the gradual remediation of the tip . thing begin to look well and greener , but with the increase frequency of more violent weather event , it be now clear that the job be not do . as we see all too vividly in the Rhondda a couple of year ago , there be still a lot more work to be do to ensure that the tip be safe . this be a legacy from pre - devolution time . the slag heap be produce as a result of mining coal to fuel the factory that fill the coffer of the UK Treasury , and the UK Government have a responsibility to ensure that every tip in Wales be make safe . we in Carmarthenshire be relatively lucky , with few and less risky tip than in the valley far east , where urgent investment be need . it be very disappointing that there be no mention of any funding in the spring Budget , and I ask the Minister to take this message back to the Chancellor . I turn to Orgreave . on 18 June , we will mark 40 year since we see the truly shocking scene of police attack miner at Orgreave , and we need a proper inquiry into what happen that day . it be very disappointing that the Government have not instigate such an inquiry , even after the revelation about South Yorkshire police in Bishop James Jones ' s Hillsborough report . however , we need not only an inquiry into Orgreave , but a proper Hillsborough law . it be not enough for the Government ' s belate response to the Hillsborough report in December last year to espouse the introduction of a voluntary charter , an independent public advocate and a code of ethical policing . instead , we need a full Hillsborough law to force those in public office to co - operate fully with investigation , and to guarantee fair funding to enable those affect by a major tragedy to challenge public institution . I urge the Minister to set up an inquiry into Orgreave , and to adopt a full Hillsborough law . I want to say a few word about a just transition to the industry of the future , which be the exact opposite of what we see in the 1980 , when it be clear that the Thatcher Government want to destroy the coal industry . however , it be not just the coal industry that be decimate . we see the closure of the big steel plant in my constituency and numerous other closure across the country , result in area of mass unemployment , with community feel that they have be throw on the scrapheap . the legacy remain till this day , as document in the Coalfields Regeneration Trust report . it do not have to be like this . of course we want to make progress and to harness technology to our advantage — whether it be the spin mill of the 18th century , motorise transport , robot on the production line , artificial intelligence , the transition from fossil fuel to renewable , or the change from blast furnace steel production to green primary steelmaking — but it should be a just transition , with training and job for worker , and investment in the new green industry of the future . that be why it be so disappointing to see the Government ' s half - hearted approach to the future of the steel industry . we welcome investment in the electric arc furnace , but there be a refusal to think big and to invest in the green primary steelmaking of the future , leave thousand of worker to lose their job . it be a devastating blow for Port Talbot and , yet again , the surround former coalfield community . we in the Labour party be determined to see a just transition to the industry of the future , with proper investment through our propose national wealth fund , the upskilling of worker and the creation of quality job . never again do we want to see worker throw on the scrapheap and community devastate . order . after Kevan Jones , we will have the Front - Bench contribution and then the wind - up from Grahame Morris . I congratulate my Durham colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , on secure this afternoon ' s important debate . for the last 23 year , I have have the privilege of represent North Durham , which be part of the once mighty Durham coalfield . over those 23 year , I have see many change . my hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) speak about the close - knit tradition of mining community — not just in County Durham , but in his own area in Northumberland . have grow up as the son of a miner , I be familiar with that close - knit tradition and the reliability of work that there be in such community . however , I do not look at the past through rose - tint spectacle , because , to use a hobbesian phrase , life be nasty , brutish and short for many people . there be nothing romantic about the death rate , which we just accept as the price of coal , but many of the community in my constituency — the town of Stanley , for example — be build on coal . the surround village , such as Craghead , Sacriston and other , be all build because of coalmine . their economic existence be coalmine . when that be finally take away in 1985 , when the last pit close , the economic heart be rip out of those community overnight , as have be mention by many hon . member who have contribute to today ' s debate . today , people would not recognise where the mining industry be base in North Durham unless they know the history of the area . they would certainly not know where the pit be in the South Yorkshire village where I grow up if they do not know the history of that village . that unseen legacy have cast a long shadow over many mining community . I congratulate the Coalfields Regeneration Trust on its excellent report on the state of coalfield community in 2020 . it be a superb piece of work . when I be first elect , the legacy of heavy industry , and certainly coalmine , be evident in my constituency . People who have work underground their whole life suffer from not only debilitate lung disease , but other physical condition relate to heavy industry . sadly , that generation be increasingly no long with we . after that social fabric be take out of County Durham , we have unemployment , deprivation and poverty and , as happen in many community , crime and drug fill the gap . when I be first elect , I describe North Durham as a rural constituency with urban problem and , as in the constituency of my hon . friend the Members for Easington and for Wansbeck , the legacy of drug abuse , for example , be still there today . this health inequality be now affect a lost generation of young people bear in the 1980 , some now in their 40 , who never get into proper pay employment . the report from the Coalfields Regeneration Trust speak for itself . life expectancy in coalfield community be 82 for woman , as oppose to 85 in the south - east of England , and 78 for man , as oppose to 81 in the south - east of England . the other thing that appal I — I have speak about this before , and I feel very passionately about it — be that , in a wealthy country , life expectancy in County Durham have go down over the last 10 year , which be an absolute disgrace . the report also outline that , in 2021 , the proportion of the population report bad or very bad health be 7 . 1 % in former coalfield area , compare with 4 . 2 % in the south - east of England and 4 . 3 % in London . we have a legacy of ill health . health professional in County Durham tell I that the age at which people access intensive healthcare be now in their mid - to - late 50 . that put extra pressure on our health service , which be not reflect in the funding . in addition , my constituency be now in the commuter belt for Tyneside and other area , which be very difficult for people in many outlying community unless they have access to a car . young people do not have aspiration , which be difficult to raise , to get into good , well - pay employment . warehousing and other low - skilled or semi - skilled work be no replacement for the high - quality job that we use to have in the coalfield . we have hear a lot of talk from the Government about level up . I have say it before and will say it again : level up be a complete con . it be not a serious measure to level up Britain . if it be , the community highlight by the report would be at the top of the list . it be all about capital project and pork barrel politic , basically set area against one another . council have spend million of pound , certainly in County Durham ' s case , submit bid that be never go to succeed . the only successful bid from County Durham be in Bishop Auckland , which happen to have a Conservative Member of Parliament , get half a bypass in the process . level up have not replace the £ 240 million that the Government have take out of Durham County Council ' s core funding by shift the tax base on to local council tax payer . my hon . friend the Member for Easington speak about the low council tax base in County Durham , where 60 % of property be in band A , which mean that we can not raise money . additionally , we need extra service for our grow elderly population and our grow number of look - after child . be there a relationship between the closure of sure Start centre , which offer early intervention for family , and the number of look - after child who be come back into care ? it do not take a genius to work out that the two be related , and the Government have slowly wake up to that fact and be now reintroduce child ' s centre . we also have access to european regional development funding . again , it be promise that no region would lose out , but we have . that money automatically come to area like the north - east , and it do some fantastic work . it do not fixate on capital project , at which the local Member of Parliament or whoever want to be elect could open a plaque ; it be about employment and training . I work with my hon . friend the Member for Easington on DurhamWorks , which have be very good at get young people who be not in education , employment or training back into work . level up have be a complete con , and we need that investment if we be to make a real change to health , employment and training . the Prime Minister let the cat out of the bag when he stand for the leadership of the Tory party and boast that he would take money away from area like mine and redistribute it to leafy part of the south - east of England . that be exactly what have happen , and the idea that the Government can take the need - base element out of this be absolutely disgraceful . the idea that they can give coalfield area the odd £ 20 million here and there to replace the hundred of million of pound that they have lose in local government funding , ERDF funding and other funding be just a con . I look back to the last Labour Government with clear eye . County Durham have five new school , three new health centre , a new hospital and two new further education college . that be real investment in a community . I be also proud that , in government , we pay compensation to people with COPD , which should have be do many year early . it take a Labour Government to do that . we need a radical change of approach , which no one can foresee at the fag end of this Parliament . it will only happen with the election of a Labour Government who will reprioritise the need of individual . without that , the legacy of limited employment opportunity and ill health in our coalmine community will continue , not just for those who work in the industry but for generation to come . in a wealthy country like Britain , it be a national scandal that we should leave such community to suffer in this way . I commend the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and for Leigh ( James Grundy ) on secure this excellent debate , in which we have hear some common theme . I also thank the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on coalfield community , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , for drive forward its excellent work . I be strike by the sense of pride express by everyone who have take part in this debate , whether it be the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) , who have first - hand experience at the coalface , or the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) who , be chronologically challenge through no fault of his own , have no such experience , although that do not diminish how we all feel about the community we represent . I grow up in a mining community , and that sense of community be part of we , which be very evident from everyone who have take part today . I therefore welcome the opportunity to sum up this debate for the Scottish National party . as member will probably be aware , I have make many contribution in this Chamber about my constituency and its rich mining history , which date back to the 12th century , when the monk at Newbattle abbey first begin extract coal . by the 20th century , mining be an integral part of my community ' s way of life . Midlothian be home to a range of pit , with probably the well know be Bilston Glen and Monktonhall . we also have the first victorian super - pit , the Lady Victoria , which be still the home of the National Mining Museum Scotland . again , I extend an invitation to member to visit it , as it be an excellent facility . it be open by my predecessor , David Hamilton , also a former miner . it be the UK ' s first single facility for understanding and commemorate the mining industry and so be an excellent attraction that people can come to see any time they visit Midlothian . we hear a lot today about the fact that we be mark the 40th anniversary of the miner ' strike of the 1980 , which leave a scar in many community across Scotland and the rest of the UK . its unique set of circumstance see entire community defend their way of life and their job against a UK Tory Government who seem determined to bring they to their knee and deploy the force of the state to meet that end . as be narrate in the John Scott KC review in 2020 , which be commission by the Scottish Government , some miner be dismiss notwithstanding the fact that they have be admonish in court . Dismissal bring with it financial hardship , with loss of income and pension right , and difficulty for many in obtain future employment . above all , miner and their family lose their good name and their respectability as honest hard - work man do dangerous job . that loss be perhaps the deep one , cut they hard and be the hard to bear . the corrosive and bitter scar leave by the impact of that Thatcher Government on once - proud mining community , which feel abandon by the state , be there for all to see . that be why I , along with many other , have call many time for a full inquiry into exactly what happen at that time . we have hear the call for justice for Orgreave again today . we need to understand , and our community need to understand , what political influence be exert at that time and what political interference take place in respect of the action and decision of Thatcher ' s Government . I recall realise at the time that Ian MacGregor , the chair of the National Coal Board , have work out that if a way could be find to sack somebody for gross misconduct , that would be a lot cheap than pay they the redundancy payment to which they be entitle . do my hon . friend believe that one day we will find that that be a matter of policy on behalf of the NCB ? I truly hope that we do , because only when we get the answer to these question — the honest answer from Government — can our community and those directly involve truly move forward . I accept that we be not talk about decision make by this government , but it would be for they to take the opportunity to start that inquiry so that we can get those answer . we be about to have a debate about BBC bias . I be a young correspondent at that time and I recall just how biased a lot of the coverage be . we constantly see thing from the police ' s point of view , but never see thing from the miner ' point of view . what lesson do my hon . friend think there be to learn from any inquiry on press and medium coverage during that strike ? as we hear from other early in the debate , it be important that all side be reflect and that the reality of the situation be reflect . I be perhaps proud to say that I be too young to remember watch much of the coverage live at the time , although I have watch the more recent documentary , so I can not speak directly about my experience of what be broadcast at the time . that move I on to how proud I be that the Scottish Parliament have — unanimously , I believe — introduce a pardon for miner who be convict of certain offence during the miner ' strike . however , I be frustrated that we have not see more action take to do the same here . miner and those who be involve in the strike in my constituency , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Members for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) and for Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill ( Steven Bonnar ) , and in those of other colleague in Scotland , can not get the compensation that I feel they deserve until we have a UK - wide pardon in place . that be why I take the unusual step of introduce my Miners ' Strike ( Pardons ) Bill in this place . I hope that member across the Chamber will support it . it have be draft , so all the Government need to do be support it and we could put that pardon in place to mirror the one establish by the Scottish Government . I hope we will see that happen . I genuinely hope that if this government do not do that , the next one will . however , I write to the right hon . member for Islington North about my Bill in December and I have not yet receive a response . [ interruption . ] sorry , not Islington North — I mean the leader of the Labour party . I can ' t keep up with these London constituency ! I have have no reply from he in support of my Bill and that be deeply disappointing . I hope that enough colleague on the Labour Benches will have a word in his ear to make sure that that pardon be introduce . the hon . member for Pontypridd highlight the work of the all - party parliamentary group on coalfield community and the " State of the Coalfields 2024 " report . that excellent report have go into a lot of depth on the issue that our coalfield community still face . the inquiry receive more than 70 submission from across Scotland , England and Wales . I be glad that the Scottish Government , local authority , and the voluntary and community sector all contribute to that . it be important that where we have an evidence base such as this , we look at it in a lot of detail and understand well what it mean for each of our community . like so many other , I be deeply disappointed by the lack of level up and the fact that for many of our community , it feel as though that have simply be a Government slogan . we need funding to shore up our coalfield community and stop they fall far behind . I have always say that there need to be a more even and balanced distribution of the UK ' s prosperity ; we can not just have it all drive into one place , and our coalfield need it far more than most . the pit closure leave a lasting legacy of social and economic damage . that result from decision make in this place and it be up to this place to do much , much more to deal with it . midlothian and other mining community must benefit from any new fund and initiative that could help to boost recovery . finally , I come to another issue that have be touch on by many member : the miner ' pension . I commend the hon . member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) for her work in drive forward the review on that . it be long overdue that these recommendation be implement ; the BEIS Committee report from 2021 need to be implement now . our miner deserve fairness . the 50 % surplus arrangement have be in place since 1994 . we have hear about figure such as £ 4 . 8 billion and rise , without even adjust it for inflation . that money should be go to our miner — at the very least , it should be go into our coalfield community . it be outrageous that it be take so long to implement this . we need it to happen as soon as possible . a number of miner , include my constituent ally , have encounter a situation where they be mis - sell pension product from their miner ' pension . despite try endlessly to get an outcome on that , they have find that the company involve have often go bust and track they down be a massive issue for anyone . I ask the Minister to relay to the Treasury the need for great understanding of the impact this be have on former miner and the need for a further look at what be possible when that situation arise . I will certainly continue to try to bring that about . today ' s debate have be excellent . it have show the spirit that be still there in our mining community ; it be not go away any time soon and we will all continue to campaign for justice for our miner . let I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and the hon . member for Leigh ( James Grundy ) for secure this debate . I also thank right hon . and hon . member for their contribution . we hear from my hon . friend the Members for Easington , for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) , for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) , for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) , for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) and for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , and from my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . all of they speak about the Coalfields Regeneration Trust ' s " State of the Coalfields 2024 " report and the miner ' pension scheme . it be a pleasure to respond to the debate on behalf of the opposition , not least because these issue be deeply personal for my constituent , as they be for member from across coalfield community . it would be difficult to overstate the impact of the coal industry on my constituency , and on the north - east as a whole . its history be weave into the fabric of our community . many town and village owe their existence to the pit . today , statue and colliery wheel commemorate our past , and community facility set up to serve mining family remain in use . in my constituency , there be many colliery , from Chopwell to Kibblesworth and from Greenside to Bewicke Main . each pit be surround by a community in which coal be not just a job , but a way of life . like other right hon . and hon . member , I could not go without mention the annual big meeting , the Durham miner ' gala . each year , brilliant fly banner and march brass band bring together thousand in our region to celebrate working - class life and solidarity . so far , I have talk about my local area , but the mining history of the UK stretch far and wide , from the coalfield in Lanarkshire to mine in the midland , on to the Welsh valley and all the way down to Kent . I think the hon . Lady have miss Cornwall from her list . indeed . I notice the similarity in what the hon . Member say between his community and our coalmine community . let we be clear that the reality of work down the pit be far from romantic . miner toil in brutal working condition , do backbreake work in the near darkness . as we have hear , many people lose their life in disaster or develop industrial disease , such as pneumoconiosis , as a result of their work . it be important that we remember and pay tribute to they . mining community know well than anyone that this work be tough and dangerous , but whole way of life be build around the pit . their rapid closure cause mass upheaval , the consequence of which be still feel to this day . as the report from the Industrial Communities Alliance have highlight , former coalfield area still suffer from a lack of skilled , well - pay job , as well as from high level of economic inactivity . while employment rate have improve since the day of mass unemployment , many people still feel there be few meaningful and secure alternative to the work that be once available . labour be determined that we will not abandon our community to the whim of industrial change . through our green prosperity plan , we will seize the opportunity of energy transition to deliver economic justice and rebuild the strength of our industrial heartland . we will create secure , clean job , back by strong trade union , with individual and collective right guarantee for all worker . our former mining community power we through the industrial revolution , and it be not right that many people within they be force to rely on insecure , zero - hour contract , or leave vulnerable to fire and rehire . that be why Labour ' s new deal for work people will put an end to those practice and build our economy from the bottom up , and the middle out , to deliver a high - growth , high - wage economy for all . this Government come to power talk about level up , but inequality remain as stark as ever . a report from the APPG on coalfield community , in partnership with the Industrial Communities Alliance , speak of the failure of the current approach to deliver for former coalfield area . pot allocate by competitive bidding be too haphazard and too short term to allow for the development that be need to transform former industrial site . Coalfield community must be allow to come together , and to learn from each other , not make to compete like contestant on " Dragons ' Den " . not only must we deliver a well future for our community , but we must right the wrong of the past . as we have hear , the party in Government have break promise about the mineworker ' pension scheme . do the Minister think it be fair that the Government make vast amount of money from the current arrangement , while former miner struggle to make end meet ? let I be clear : this be a historic injustice that should never have take place , and the Government should not be in the business of profit off mineworker ' pension . after so many year of silence from Parliament on this issue , the BEIS Committee inquiry be very welcome . the Labour party will work with mineworker and their family to right this wrong , and we will set out our full plan on this by the time of the election . People should be in no doubt that we will deliver justice for mineworker and their family with the urgency require . we must never shrug off injustice . we all remember the violent image of the strike in 1984 and 1985 , perhaps no more so than the sight of Lesley Boulton cower in the face of a police truncheon at the Orgreave coking plant . early this year , new footage from Orgreave be show in a Channel 4 documentary , which clearly set out the police brutality and allegation of a cover - up . the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , consider the case for an inquiry , but it seem that the Government no long think that they have any lesson to learn . their memory be clearly short . the Labour party have long support a full investigation or inquiry into the event at Orgreave , and we be commit to put a new Hillsborough law on to the statute book to prevent future injustice . I hope the Minister share my conviction that the truth must be hear . our coalmine day may be behind we , but we must not forget the community that form around they . they be the engine that power Britain ' s industrial success , and we owe it to they that they should share in the reward . it be genuinely a great pleasure to respond on behalf of the Government in this important area of policy . I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to the debate . I welcome the focus on this issue . I congratulate the all - party parliamentary group , its current chair , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and all those who be involve , or who have previously be involve , for raise these issue . we might not agree on all element , but across the House we all agree that this be an important subject that we need to debate . I particularly welcome the debate because I also have the privilege of represent a coalfield seat , North East Derbyshire , the home of Ireland , Williamthorpe , Renishaw Park , Hartington and Park House , where , just a century ago , ten of thousand of man work . many colleague have outline their experience today ; it be a privilege to know that our ancestor go down those pit every single day . I agree with the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) that this work be tough and dangerous . not a single member of my family , or any of the people I have have the privilege of represent for seven year , have fail to remind I how difficult mining be . I be sure that many right hon . and hon . member have have similar conversation . Eckington drift mine , the last drift mine in my constituency , close only five year ago . contrary to what we hear in some contribution , in my constituency we regularly celebrate our mining legacy , from the recent opening of memorial for High Moor and Westhorpe colliery , from Pat Bone ' s work at the Killamarsh Heritage Society to attend a remembrance service for the terrible loss of 17 soul in 1973 Markham colliery disaster . in a few week , I hope , with my family , to add my ancestor ' name to the Eckington mining memorial , which Paul Burdett and his team have so kindly put in one of the town in North East Derbyshire . as the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) indicate , my family be also deeply steep in this legacy , go back around 10 generation . as far back as the census go , we be miner or hewer . my mum ' s maiden name be literally Collier . both my grandfather work down the mine , include my mum ' s dad who work for a time at Westthorpe and High Moor in the area that I now have the privilege to represent . like so many of the people there , both of their life be cut short . I manage to know my maternal grandfather for only seven year before he die of the injury that he have suffer down the pit in the 1940 , include lose a limb . I never know my other grandad — he die seven year before I be bear . so I share the acute sense of link with this and agree that this be an area in which we need to do more . when I speak from this Dispatch Box , I do so with great pride on behalf of mining community and my own family , but it be pride tinge with a little bit of sadness . I be afraid that I be not intend to talk about this , but I think that it be important that I do so . I do not particularly want to bring party politic into this , but I think that party politic have already be bring into this quite significantly over the course of this debate . many strong point have be make today by colleague across the House . I agree with the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) that , at time , CISWO do not discharge what we all hope it would do , and I shall certainly pass that back to my colleague in the relevant Department . I agree with most member who say that there be more to do . I be interested in the concern of the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) about the quality of coal , which I shall take up with colleague in the Department for Business and Trade and ask they to look at that in further detail — as much as they be able to do so . however , I do think that some of the language have be genuinely loose today . the hon . member for Wansbeck talk about oppose absolutely everything that the conservative party do . the hon . member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) talk about thing be " callous " , or about how the Government choose " destruction " . the hon . member for Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill ( Steven Bonnar ) talk about " indifference " . there be a place for rhetoric and a place for hyperbole — rise — I be absolutely not go to take any intervention . I have listen to the grievance of Opposition Members for three hour , and it be now time for they to hear the alternative . labour do not own the story of mining in our country . labour do not get to reset the narrative in the way that it have seek to do today . the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) talk about a Government of empathy . labour do not get to disregard the settle pension arrangement — arrangement defend by the Labour party for 13 year when they sit on the Government Benches . in 2008 , when the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) — he be in his place a moment ago — be in charge of his Department , junior Ministers be send out to answer write question to that effect . labour do not get to reset the agenda on that . it certainly do not get to repeatedly let down mining community for decade , to the extent where those community — will the Minister give way ? I will not give way . I have listen for three hour to the Labour party ' s grievance . labour do not get to set the narrative , have let down mining community for 13 year , to the extent that those mining community send to this place people such as myself and many of those who be sit behind I right now . People come up to we and say that we have do more in four year than the Labour party manage in 40 . labour do not get to reset that agenda . today , so many Labour Members have rightly draw on their community ' s history as part of their speech , just as I be do , and I shall draw a little bit more on mine . I want to refer in particular to one of my predecessor who sit in this place for North East Derbyshire — but not my Benches . he join this place not as a member of the Labour party , but he be a former executive member of the Miners ' Federation of Great Britain . he build his career in mining . I will pass his statue when I go home today . he do not join here as a Labour Member , but he feel force to join the party because he be a miner . in the end , though , he leave the Labour party . that be a story of our time in these community our mining heritage be share ; it be not party political . I yield to no one in this place when it come to the proud legacy that mining have provide for my community and my family ; it be not just own by one group of we here . that be why we turn now to some of the point that have be raise . many member have talk about level up . I accept that there be more to do in that area . we have always indicate that level up be a long - term initiative that will take time to work , but at least this Government have make progress . will the Minister give way ? the hon . Lady have many minute in which to set out her view , and now I will respond to it . the hon . member for Easington talk about the Government continue to undermine the local community , choose to invest elsewhere . the hon . member for Pontypridd say that , sadly , level up be just a slogan . the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) talk about it be a con . well , let we list a few levelling - up project . let we pick some area totally at random . shall we pick Easington , cover by the north - east investment zone ? across the county , the share from the UK share prosperity fund have be £ 31 million , with £ 750 , 000 for the town accelerator fund . let we pick St Helens . from the english city regional capital regeneration funding there have be £ 7 . 2 million for St Helens manufacture , £ 25 million for a town deal , and a long - term plan for town , cover Newton - le - Willows . the hon . member for Barnsley East wish to speak again . Barnsley have receive a share of £ 39 million from the UK share prosperity fund — [ interruption . ] — £ 10 million for Barnsley Futures , £ 500 , 000 for a town accelerator and a future high street fund of £ 15 . 6 million . what about the hon . member for City of Durham ? Durham have have £ 281 , 000 for Redhills reveal through the community ownership fund , and a share of £ 31 million from the UK SPF . what about the hon . member for Wansbeck ? Wansbeck have receive £ 16 million for town centre regeneration in Ashington , a share of £ 31 million from the UK SPF , and from the north - east investment zone a share of £ 47 million . the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) say that government support never come — except it do come , with a levelling - up partnership , £ 6 million for the future high street fund , and £ 20 million for the South Shields riverside transformation . what about the hon . member for Pontypridd ? Pontypridd receive £ 5 million from the levelling - up fund , and £ 14 million for the A4119 dualle scheme . what about the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ? Selby receive a share of £ 17 million from the UK SPF . what about the hon . member for Llanelli ? there have be £ 15 million for regenerate Llanelli . the list go on and on . [ interruption . ] the reason Opposition Members do not want to hear this be because their narrative do not work . mining community have have a significant amount of attention from this government — [ interruption . ] — and I be extremely proud to represent a mining community . where be we leave after that heat rather than light ? this be a very important subject , which we share in . even though I have have to set the record straight on a number of area , there be some genuinely useful contribution . there be a need to remember , but not to dwell , because the mining community that I have the privilege to represent want to look forward , not back . it want to celebrate its history , but to be know for its potential , opportunity and renewal . the past be what we inherit , but the future be what we build . it be the future that this Government will continue to build , to ensure that mining community such as mine , and everybody ' s in this place , continue to prosper and thrive . Mr Deputy Speaker , may I thank you and Madam Deputy Speaker for your admirable chairing of this very good debate ? I thank my co - sponsor , the hon . member for Leigh ( James Grundy ) , for his work behind the scene to secure enough colleague ' signature to get the debate . More than 30 mp support it , and 16 make a speech or intervene . I think we have some excellent contribution , particularly from Opposition Members — obviously I be biased — although there be some very good one from across the whole House . I thank the lobbyist who come down yesterday from the national mineworker ' pension scheme — my constituent John Trewhitt , Bert Moncur and Ted Slavin , who make the journey and lobby Downing Street and Parliament about the anomaly with the mineworker ' pension surplus . I do not agree with the Minister ' s analysis . I urge he to act with alacrity — I have look that up ; it mean physical quickness , couple with eagerness or enthusiasm — in address the issue that have be raise . I thank the respective Front Benchers , and I thank those on the Labour Front Bench for their commitment to mineworker ' pension . there be a big job of work to do . I thank everyone for their participation today . as a good Welshman , I be honour to put the question . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider miner and mining community . BBC Mid - term Charter Review I beg to move , that this House have consider the BBC mid - term charter review . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for provide time for this debate on the BBC charter and its performance . I must add that my application be support by no few than 33 colleague from across the House . good weather , a one - line Whip and local election fatigue , I suspect , have intervene , but have not diminish the importance of the debate to all those voter who watch and hear the BBC and pay for it , and for whom I speak today . the reason for my propose this debate be that the Government ' s mid - term review of 22 January 2024 be only announce by write ministerial statement and not on the Floor of the House itself , and therefore be not properly discuss . the question I will deal with be whether this mid - term review satisfy the genuine concern about the manner in which the charter should operate . I be somewhat involved in the 2015 charter review that lead to the new charter , in that I propose a define new purpose for the charter specifically on the question of impartiality , which be insert . I also propose a conditional licence on the impartiality issue as long ago as the debate on the Broadcasting Act 1990 for broadcast licence holder , which be incorporate in the Act — so at least I have be consistent . the new charter provide that the BBC would be govern by a new unitary board and regulation would pass to Ofcom as an external and independent regulator . the question be whether that have work effectively in deliver for licence fee payer in the national interest , by strengthen the oversight of the BBC ' s complaint procedure with proper independence and enable Ofcom to regulate the BBC ' s online public service . the Government tell we in their review that " impartiality be core to the BBC ' s responsibility under the Charter " . the BBC run a £ 220 million deficit in 2022 - 23 , with an annual income , believe it or not , of £ 5 . 7 billion and operating cost of £ 5 . 9 billion . in comparison , the democratically elect House of Commons , our bastion of freedom and accountability , together with the House of Lords , merely cost around £ 847 million a year . give that the BBC have a massive influence on public opinion and be unelecte , that make the rule of impartiality fundamental to its justification . the Government review also point out that impartiality be one area where the BBC be see by survey to be " less favourably compare " in the provision of news , and exhort the BBC to improve that and to maintain the trust of the public and the audience . I think the hon . Gentleman have somewhat lose the House . none of we understand what the connection be between expenditure by Parliament and expenditure by the national broadcaster . can he far develop why that be relevant ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I have not lose anything at all . it be very simple . the fact be that in Parliament , we have proper debate by elect people and decision make on matter of public importance , whatever the outcome and whatever the view express . they be democratically decide . the decision put across by the BBC quite often be the result of a kind of centrist viewpoint , which I will come on to later , which be inevitably not consistent with the view of the public who pay for the benefit , if that be what it be to be call , of watch and listen to the programme in question . the Government review recommend that the BBC publish more information on how it carry out its work on impartiality and how it respond to Ofcom ' s challenge to improve its performance . a new complaint system have be establish under the principle of " BBC First " , but the question remain whether that have work . the number of complaint make to Ofcom about the BBC ' s impartiality have increase , and the evidence be that the BBC be not meet this challenge . it be understand that there have be substantial disagreement between the Government and the BBC during the creation of this new complaint system , but it be still find want and Ofcom need to improve its own performance . it be also understand that many former BBC employee with BBC sympathy remain in Ofcom and be involve in this process . that also represent a problem , the ultimate result of which be unsatisfactory . clearly , the Government be not sufficiently satisfied with the BBC at the moment , or with Ofcom ' s performance on this vital question . that be bad news . as the Government point out , the BBC have fail to have a sufficiently robust internal system for identify the statistical datum to determine its analysis of complaint . the Government state that the independence of complaint handling indicate that the BBC can do more to ensure that audience feel that their complaint will be fairly consider . a number of point need to be make . I know something of this , because the European Scrutiny Committee , which I chair , take evidence from the BBC nine year ago on the issue of bias . we criticise the BBC on the question of the european issue before the referendum take place . the distinguished Lord Wilson of Dinton make same kind of criticism of bias in his own report . all these year later , the Government remain concerned even now that the manner in which complaint be deal with , and the datum involve , continue to be profoundly unsatisfactory . I be afraid that I be one of those who have be distract , and I will not be able to remain to speak in the debate . I take a very great interest in the report by Lord Wilson of Dinton , not least because it do not denigrate the integrity of people in the BBC . it do uncover , however , an unconscious preconception about what certain view on the european community mean . the report be about the impartiality of the BBC when report matter concern the European Union . it make a lot of people in the BBC extremely angry . People from the BBC tell I that it should never have be commission , even though it be a totally objective report . when confront with it , the BBC still get very angry about it , which suggest that there be a different atmosphere in the BBC about certain issue . nobody ever think that they themselves be biased , and the BBC do not think it be biased , but it can unconsciously produce a very one - sided approach to a particular issue such as the European Union — and , in that case , about the single currency . indeed . the proof be in the pudding and be demonstrate by the outcome of the referendum on 23 June 2016 . my hon . friend be right . actually , this be about unconscious bias in some case and very positive groupthink in other . that be where the problem lie — somewhere in between . on a limited budget , the voluntary organisation News - Watch do the job extremely well . it state : " the BBC ' s continue stonewalling of complaint , inadequacy of Ofcom in its watchdog role and the lack of effective reform propose by the mid - term review to ensure impartiality remain a fundamental problem . " thus , the national interest be undermine , and the right of the licence - fee payer to have a proper system in place be deny he . news - watch be call — rightly , in my opinion — for much more radical reform to ensure impartiality , with a fully independent complaint system , more transparency and accountability , and effort to improve diversity of opinion among BBC staff through new staff - training initiative to ensure impartial research and analysis . all those be urgent . the mid - term review do not , in my opinion , provide a proper system for determine breach of impartiality , and allow the BBC and Ofcom undue latitude in interpret what the word " due impartiality " mean , leave the BBC as its own judge and jury . indeed , in the past year , the new BBC editorial complaint unit — otherwise know as the ecu — have uphold only one impartiality complaint . People simply will not believe that , but it be a fact . neither the BBC nor Ofcom routinely publish detailed datum on the vast majority of the nearly 2 million complaint receive since Ofcom become the regulator in April 2017 . the system be , therefore , not fit for purpose . Ofcom ' s own figure indicate that complaint relate to bias make up as much as 39 % of the complaint , and complaint about misleading and dishonest content make up a further 26 % , amount to approximately 800 , 000 complaint about bias since Ofcom take over . of the 155 complaint uphold or partly uphold by the new ecu system , only 33 be accept as relate to bias , which be an absurd and minuscule proportion . we do not yet have the late figure , those relate to 2023 - 24 , but the provisional information indicate that the ecu consider 374 complaint , of which only 2 . 7 % be fully or partially uphold and 89 % be not uphold . the situation be shocking and demonstrate an intrinsic failure of the system . it must be make fully independent , and must not be judge and jury . I wonder what the hon . Gentleman think about the mid - term review ' s own conclusion that " there be clear evidence that adherence to impartiality and editorial standard be now at the heart of the BBC ' s priority " . it be at the heart of the BBC ' s priority in theory , but not in practice . Ofcom be insufficiently independent , and it be understand that there be deep concern about the entrench tie between its content board and the BBC — which still persist — and , therefore , a lack of accountability . a mere 56 % of the public now believe that the corporation be impartial . the BBC refuse to engage with complaint that do not refer to single programme item , and there be a lack of comprehensive research into audience perception of bias . I notice an important letter in the Daily Telegraph on 23 January this year from Baroness Deech , a distinguished Cross - Bench peer and King ' s counsel who be a governor of the BBC from 2002 . regard the publication of the mid - term review in January , she write that " complaint be see by the BBC as very sensitive matter , threaten the independence of the editor : witness the length to which it have go to keep secret the Balen Report on its bias against Israel . " she argue that " the good way to handle complaint would be to appoint an independent ombudsman from outside the media industry , support by expert on the topic at issue . " I believe she be right . she confirm that " Ofcom be heavily staff by former BBC and medium professional who may be as touchy as their current counterpart at the notion of bias at the BBC . " it be not just a notion : it be clearly apparent , and that be what the public think . it be also interesting to note the view of distinguished BBC insider , who know how the system work on a daily basis and have be openly critical of the BBC ' s performance while they be employ as top - line and experienced presenter and commentator within the BBC for decade . I recommend that anyone who be interested in this subject read Roger Mosey ' s book " get out alive " , which give a very good insight into issue of bias by the BBC on the question of Europe . he recall a " Today " programme meeting when Rod Liddle be confront by a producer who say disparagingly , " ' the Eurosceptics believe Germany be go to dominate Europe ! ' this generate laughter from bien pensant colleague " about the ridiculousness of that idea . " ' but what if it ' s true ? ' be the response from the editor , and he set the team think about item that would examine whether Euroscepticism have some well - found belief " as member will recall , at that time nobody think for a minute about the simple question that those of we who be campaign on the european issue — in my case , have come into the House in May 1984 , I have campaign continuously for 40 year — be try to get across : " what do the European Union and its related matter mean for the british people ? " that be an example of how the system can work — when reason prevail , as demonstrate by the editor of the " Today " programme . Mosey also refer to the issue of asylum seeker in the summer of 2003 , when Tony Blair be Prime Minister . Mosey say that the people he describe as the " editorial policy people " assert in this context that the issue be be lead by an " angry tabloid agenda and extreme right - wing group " . Mosey reply strongly to the editorial policy team , say among other thing that the " asylum debate be one in which we ' ve do rather badly in reflect the concern of our audience or the genuine crisis face by the government in deal with the issue " . that be in Tony Blair ' s time , let along now . later , he mention : " two year ago when it start be raise , we do not realise the level of unease about the issue " . now , two decade later , the position remain the same . I also recommend John Humphrys ' s book " a day like Today " , particularly , after 33 year of political interviewing , his conclusion : " today presenter and their stablemate do have question to ask themselves . do an interview always have to be so combative ? do there have to be a winner or loser " — [ interruption . ] John Humphrys , and he know what he be talk about , unlike the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , say that " if it do , the loser might very well be the public . if we interviewer succeed , albeit unintentionally , in convince the listener that all politician be liar , the real loser be our system of representative democracy that have serve the nation so well for so long " , to which I say , " hear , hear . " my hon . friend be make a very important speech . I would just draw the House ' s attention to when I be new young Back Bencher in the early 1990 , and two or three of we , include my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , finally get a meeting with the " Today " programme ' s editorial team , which I think include Rod Liddle . we start to explain to they why join a single currency in the European Union might be a rather bad idea and they be very interested , but they be greet with derision when they go back to the BBC and suggest that our argument should be take seriously . the short answer be that we get the verdict on 23 June 2016 , as we all know . the problem be that the BBC be incapable of enforce its own rule on impartiality , largely because the overwhelming majority of the corporation ' s journalist as pivotal staff — as one hear , even from member of this House who have work for the BBC — be sign up to a left - liberal political worldview in which group - think and wake prevail , and any who diverge from the worldview they hold make those who differ from they target for criticism and bad , include ridicule . I neither deify nor damn the BBC , and like most of my constituent , my household ' s interaction be with BBC Merseyside , CBBC , " Match of the Day " , the Proms and the late new drama . however , I will say that I have never work , engage with or have dealing with any member of BBC staff — political staff , journalist — who have be anything other than professional . I have never assume , and I have never ask about , what their political leaning be . have listen to what the hon . Gentleman say , and I respect he very much , I do think that we have have a lot of subjective opinion and perhaps some score settling , but not a lot of objective evidence . I be most grateful to the hon . gentleman for his remark . I will only say that , as he will have notice , I have be quote some highly experienced , knowledgeable and famous presenter and commentator , who have make their own remark . what the corporation desperately need be more political diversity . one of the problem be the BBC ' s hire policy , which should be seek out journalist , researcher and programme maker with divergent view if they be genuinely to present commentary on a fair and unbiased basis . despite Director - General Tim Davie ' s avow intent to reform the BBC and maintain a proper reputation for impartiality , that have not happen . this can be see , for example , by the total failure — I have myself mention it frequently in the press — to restrain the like of Gary Lineker from make political statement on the issue of small boat , and get away with it scot - free . the same apply to outrageous example of aggressive interviewing , far beyond objective questioning , that have recently centre on the Hamas - Israel conflict . this be the subject of an important debate lead by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) in Westminster Hall only a few week ago . the so - call thematic review publish only this week be a good example of how thing be still go wrong . the report claim to have consider more than 1 , 500 output item but deliberately opt not to undertake any statistical content analysis , as the BBC know only too well , and , as before , ignore the report on the BBC ' s coverage lead by Lord Wilson 20 year ago . the BBC know that real statistical analysis be require and can do so but simply refuse to provide it . the licence fee be inevitably under attack as a result of this failure and the loss of trust with taxpayer that go with it . it be also embed , I be afraid , in the failure I have identify in the well - intentione BBC mid - term review itself . this raise the question of why those who pay the licence fee and who feel that the BBC disregard their view , and can demonstrate to have experience that , should be force to pay for the running of the BBC , a subject upon which the wise and reasonable Lord Charles Moore have frequently write in the past . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) . he make a wide - range speech more at time perhaps suit to the history channel than to BBC Parliament , but I be sure the view public will have listen to what he say with great interest . he make some important point , and the attendance at this debate do not reflect the high regard in which people hold the BBC and its importance for our nation , which be why this review be of importance . I be not familiar with the term " BBC sympathiser , " but I suspect that many member of the public would recognise themselves as BBC sympathiser because it do hold a special place in many people ' s heart and be respect around the world . that should not make the BBC immune to criticism , however , and because of the unique way it be fund it be often hold to a high standard than many of its competitor . it be right that the BBC should respond to public concern and reflect the way society be change , otherwise it will find itself consign to the history book alongside silent movie and video cassette . the sad reality be that the BBC ' s traditional rival on free - to - air terrestrial tv be already on life support because they can not compete with online subscription service in term of quality and they can not match the way online service can target advert and reach people , which be inconceivable not long ago . so the BBC could become the last man stand in term of wholly british broadcaster . but the warning sign be there for the BBC too . a recent survey find that 43 % of people do not know what the tv licence be for and 66 % agree that the tv licence should be scrap in 2027 . I do not agree with that , but that survey should be ring alarm bell . it may only be one survey , and I do not know the age breakdown , but I suspect we would find from it that young people be less likely to see the value of the licence fee . after all , they will have grow up in a world where on - demand subscription service be the norm , so pay for something regardless of whether they watch it may well seem outdated and probably unfair . but when we look at the hard fact , not just at survey , that also paint a worrying picture . the number of people not pay the licence fee have double in 10 year , and that be despite the threat of large fine for non - payment . if that non - payment rate increase at the same rate over the next few decade , we can all see where that will take we . so we need to ask serious question about why non - payment rate be grow . clearly that be in part because people be vote with their foot and their wallet , and that be a challenge for the BBC in its override mission , which I will address shortly , but it be also a question of enforcement . when I ask question of Ministers about enforcement action , it be clear that none have be take against anyone over 75 for non - payment . I certainly know of a constituent in that age bracket who have decide for their own reason not to pay the licence fee and so far have receive 23 letter with various degree of threat within they , but no actual enforcement action have be take . it seem to I that the BBC have take the decision not to prosecute over - 75 for non - payment . I certainly have no issue with that — we should not be criminalise pensioner — but that do jar with the other story we hear about seriously ill and vulnerable people be prosecute for non - payment . it seem that we be duck the hard decision that need to be make about how we deal with the licence fee . be there not another issue here , which be that the BBC be a successful programme maker and broadcaster , yet it be completely unable to compete with the like of Amazon Prime and Netflix , because it be not allow to run subscription service in the same way ? be there not a case for replace a large proportion of the licence fee income with subscription income for those programme , albeit that it would still be necessary for the BBC to have some public subvention for its public service broadcasting , which play such a key role in our national life ? that be where the debate take we , and that be a debate we need to have . we need to decide as a House and a country whether we think that the current model be sustainable . there be evidence mount that it be not . equally , I want to protect the BBC , what be good about it and what I value about it . that mean that we have to face these issue . not many business that decide not to charge 10 % of their customer will survive for long , and people in a free society should not be criminalise for refuse to pay for a service that they do not use , so something will have to change . either the BBC will have to change tack , or the Government or this place will have to fill that gap . if a council see such level of non - payment for council tax , the Government would be send inspector in to ask the council to deal with it . we be in a strange situation where we be ignore a serious issue . I note with interest that the annual report on the licence fee produce by the BBC claim that it visit more than 72 , 000 premise without a licence , but the report mysteriously fail to say what action be take as a result . while it be difficult to find out precisely how many home should be pay the licence fee , we can state with confidence that 72 , 000 visit be in itself a small proportion of the property not currently pay the licence fee . it be time for an honest debate about our expectation over people pay the licence fee . the flipside of failure in licence fee collection be whether the BBC be run efficiently as an organisation . it be a clich é — I be sure we will hear plenty this afternoon — that it be a bureaucratic monster stuff with BBC lifer , but we have to ask whether it be run effectively . I have be tell that six different stakeholder from four separate BBC department attend pitch for new tv series . when an organisation have so many internal stakeholder , we have to question who exactly they be serve . those task with govern the BBC have to ask serious question of it and of themselves as to whether they be deliver true value for money in that respect . I will reflect on the subject of governance for a moment . I take the point that the hon . member for Stone make early , but I come to a different conclusion . the debate today will clearly have a large element about the BBC ' s impartiality , and I do not think it be constructive for we to trade off instance where the BBC have fail in recent time to get that right . we can all say that it can and must do well . I agree that how internal complaint be resolve need to be look at with some independent oversight . however , I will focus on how the BBC reflect the diversity of viewpoint in its broadcasting and decision making . Broadcast be not just about which political party have its voice hear , but who from those political party speak . it seem to I and my constituent that political coverage be massively dominate by voice from London . that same London - centric view be present through all politic coverage , and frankly it play into the impression of large swathe of the country that politician be out of touch and obsess with the coming and going in Westminster , far remove from the reality of people ' s life . fair play to the BBC , it do deign to visit the region with " Question Time " and " any Questions ? " , although I recall a recent occasion when " any Questions ? " come to Cheshire , but the BBC still have to bus in the Labour spokesperson from London . it prove that you can take the BBC out of London , but you can not take London out of the BBC . the same apply to programme broadcast out of Salford , when everyone jump on the first train back to London after the show finish . this be not a BBC for the whole country ; it be a BBC that be still shape by the same privately educate Oxbridge , London and home county viewpoint that have dominate it since its inception . every member of the board that I have be able to find schooling detail for be privately educate . that mean there be a real lack of diversity of thought , and that be reflect in the make - up of the senior echelon of management and editorial staff , raise serious question about the BBC ' s commitment to social mobility . it be no wonder that sometimes my constituent look at the BBC and ask , " who be they speak to ? " that do matter , because as figure on non - payment of the licence fee continue to rise , the more that people feel the BBC be talk down to they and do not have a voice in their community , the more likely they be to join the million who have decide not to pay . if we be not careful , we will soon reach a tipping point where the licence fee model become unsustainable . as someone who actually want the BBC to survive — maybe that make I a BBC sympathiser — I want this place to look seriously at how we square that circle . I declare an interest as a licence fee payer , not once but twice — I be sure that many other hon . member who split their time between here and their constituency be as well . even if I be only pay it once , I be sure that I would think it represent far bad value for money than any other tv service that I pay for in term of pound per hour watch . on one level , that should not come as a surprise — I pay for the subscription service I do because they have thing that I want to watch — but could I honestly say that , be I give a free choice , I would pay the licence fee ? I probably would , but more and more constituent be ask that question , and will continue to ask it . it need a serious , sustainable answer . I do not think that the BBC can compete with on - demand subscription service in term of quality or frequency of output . it do some great tv , but it can not compete with the investment that some of the on - demand service provide . I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s indulgence . he be talk about the BBC ' s tv service , but the BBC provide far more than just tv . he have not mention radio . I think that the BBC provide some of the good radio in the world , and that simply could not be provide by commercial operator . do he agree that our nation be well serve by have a diversity of voice from commercial provider and the BBC on the radio scene ? I agree that BBC radio be absolutely fantastic . if I choose to listen to radio , I usually end up listen to the BBC , and not just for the sport coverage but for all other coverage . the BBC ' s radio offering be probably the one part that it have get right in get a good spread of voice and opinion from across the country . BBC local radio be really important . Radio Merseyside be important to a great many of my constituent , as my hon . friend the Member for St Helens North ( Conor McGinn ) will attest . some of the cut to BBC local radio have be extremely regrettable , because it be a strength that we should be build on . more generally , it be the BBC ' s news element — be it on radio , online or on tv — that be critical to the BBC ' s future . while some clearly think it have a bit of work to do to have everyone ' s confidence that it be impartial , it be really important to our democracy in this era of disinformation and division to have a new source that be still trust by the majority of people . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will bear in mind the extraordinary example of the Bashir interview , the Jimmy Savile scandal and the Cliff Richard scandal — those thing that seem to envelop the BBC periodically in a way that completely destroy its credibility . Alistair McAlpine be another example . do he agree that it be astonishing that an organisation that have such a reputation in certain quarter can fall down so badly in other ? those be some interesting historical reference . any organisation that have be around as long as the BBC , and with that amount of output , will fall down at time . however , it be clear from survey about what people think about the BBC ' s impartiality and their trust in what it broadcast that it be well ahead of anyone else . that be something we need to preserve and treasure . I commend the work of Marianna Spring on the online disinformation be push by state and people who be hostile to this country and who want to sow distrust and undermine our democracy . her work to expose that be vital . if the BBC be to have no other role — though I think it should — it should be a trusted source of truth and transparency for everyone in this country and around the world . it will have a challenge persuade people that it be relevant in other area . in the next few decade , the majority of the population will have grow up in a world where the idea of pay for a service on a tv set that they do not own for a bunch of channel they hardly ever watch feel anachronistic at good and indefensible at worst . the soon we recognise that to keep the BBC at all we need to address that challenge , the soon we can decide as a Parliament and a country that it be worth save . I believe that it be , but we need to address the challenge before it be too late . here be a funny thing : while I have be sit here , I have receive a text message from the BBC ask I to do " any Questions ? " tomorrow evening in Sedbergh . I have have to break the news that , as Deputy Speaker , I be unable to do so . how peculiar . that be terrible news , Mr Deputy Speaker . the nation have be deprive of your view for too long , and we should hear more of they . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) on secure this debate and on a fascinating speech in which he adduce some interesting evidence , particularly from book write by former senior BBC people . he may not be shock to discover that I would deduce different conclusion from much of that evidence . I may have misunderstood what he say about the Roger Mosey story of Rod Liddle at the " Today " programme editorial meeting , where most people around the table laugh at the idea that Eurosceptics might have a point , but Rod Liddle order they to do some story about it to investigate whether it be true . that seem exactly what I would want the editor of the " Today " programme to do — question his own staff and perhaps his own prejudice , and say , " okay , let ' s report a wide range of view . " if that be what be happen , that be a good thing . I also slightly take issue with my hon . friend ' s pray in aid the thematic review of immigration that the BBC produce this week , which be very self - critical of some of its immigration coverage . that report be commission by the BBC so that it could flagellate itself if necessary and , hopefully , improve its coverage . that seem to be the sort of thing that I would want an organisation as powerful and important as the BBC to do — to retain the capacity to criticise itself . I suspect that he and I would share the view that , at time , the BBC can be exasperate , arrogant and wrong . nevertheless , as chair of the BBC all - party parliamentary group , I believe it be one of our great national institution . we should wish it success . we should constantly prod it and try to improve it but , in the end , we should take a positive view . I hope that my right hon . friend will appreciate that my intention be to point to how statistical datum be analyse , which may sound extremely boring but lie at the heart of whether we can properly evaluate the analysis in the public domain . I agree that there be moment when the BBC do very good thing , but on some occasion it do very bad thing , and there be reason for that which need proper investigation . I do not disagree at all . there be an interesting point about statistical analysis as oppose to other qualitative , perhaps more fuzzy analysis of the BBC ' s output and performance . there be clearly a case for both . I congratulate my hon . friend on the timeliness of the debate , because although our Benches be slightly denude today , the country ' s attention will be on the BBC over the next few day , particularly on Saturday night when there be two new episode of " Doctor who " follow by eurovision on BBC1 . I can tell hon . member where the nation will be on Saturday night : watch the BBC . it be the only institution that can do that . even in the completely different medium world in which we now operate and that we all enjoy , there be time when the nation come together , and that will be one of they . this be the second debate in a row where I quote a former tourism Minister who say that his experience of what attract people around the world to this country be three institution that they hold in the high regard : the royal family , the premier league and the BBC . we put they in peril at our own peril . as member , we all inevitably have a skewed perspective , because we concentrate on news and current affair . like everyone else here , I share many of the irritation and frustration . I sometimes shout at the tv and the radio when I be at home , and I sometimes want to shout at the interviewer when I be on tv or radio . the BBC must get its news coverage right as part of its core mission . on that , the mid - term charter review be clear : it find that there be clear evidence that adherence to impartiality and editorial standard be now at the heart of the BBC ' s priority , and so it should be . the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) give the impression that the BBC be a die institution , with few and few people watch it or listen to it . however , eight out of 10 adult in this country on average consume BBC news every week . that be double the figure for the next near provider . at the same time — this be directly relevant to the mid - term charter review — the BBC be overwhelmingly the UK ' s most trusted source of news . some 45 % of UK adult say they would turn first to the BBC . in second place , on 6 % , be ITV or Sky . regardless of the political view of the individual , BBC news be more trust by people in the UK than any other institution . interestingly , it be also the most trust news brand in the US . at a time when the challenge to democracy and the capacity to have balanced debate be under threat as never before , that be really important . this House should acknowledge , for all our frustration and irritation , that we be lucky in this country to have an institution that have that reach and that level of trust , and that we should therefore seek to preserve and enhance it . I contrast the situation with news and debate here with that in the United States , where people increasingly get their news from a channel that reflect the view they already have . there be right - wing news channel and left - wing news channel in the United States . therefore , its political debate be polarise and increasingly toxic . anything we can do in this country to avoid go down that track seem to I to be very worth while . it be an essential part of public service broadcasting , and public service broadcasting by and large work . we have talk about the change landscape and the arrival of the streamer . the question be often ask : who need the BBC when we have Netflix , Prime , Disney , Apple and Paramount ? it be a good question , and the answer be : anyone who care about have a distinctive british voice in medium , drama , comedy and all the thing that people want to watch . the thing that unite all the stream service I mention be that they come from the United States . sometimes they make programme in Britain — we welcome they here to keep our media industry thrive — but nevertheless , in the end , they be not go to reflect the voice of people in this country , and in particular people in the part of this country that be furth away from London . therefore , have a broadcaster whose basic role be to do that seem to I to be very important . the BBC contribute £ 4 . 9 billion to the UK economy each year , with 50 % of the gross value add generate outside London , and support about 50 , 000 job around the country , again operate largely outside London . we know that the creative economy be one of our strong economic sector , and we know that the BBC be the large single investor in original UK content . know those fact seem to I , again , to reinforce the argument that , for all of the review and investigation that need to be conduct , on the whole the BBC be a force for good . another criticism , which must be take head - on , concern over - expansion . have the BBC try to provide service that could be provide by private operator or by the market , and in do so have it try to make itself too all - embrace in the british medium landscape ? I think that be a permanent discussion that be well worth have . it be important to ensure that the BBC be only do thing that would not be do otherwise , or do thing well and in a way that other would not do . my hon . friend the Member for Stone be very critical of Ofcom . I be sometimes critical of it myself , although less so than he be . nevertheless , it be absolutely right to identify Ofcom , in the era of regulation that we have enter , as a crucial element of ensure that the BBC stick to do what it need to be do . if there be sign that Ofcom be not do that job effectively , this House — perhaps through the Culture , Media and Sport Committee — will play an important role in ensure that the BBC stay on the right track . the overall context of this be , of course , the funding settlement for the licence fee , which have last for more than a century now and be increasingly under threat . we know about the short - term pressure ; for reason good or bad , the Government have not keep the licence fee in line with inflation level over the past few year , and the BBC have therefore suffer painful round of cut that have affect service that many of we value hugely , such as local radio . that be an important enough debate , which we have have in the Chamber previously , but an even more important debate be this : how long can a licence fee settlement continue ? I can reveal that the licence fee have survive for at least 30 year long than some expect . I do some work on the 1990s licence fee and charter review , and in those day the much maligned — and unfairly so — John Birt be say that he think that it might be the last licence fee settlement , because he could see what be go to happen with the internet and new mode of delivery such as video and , at that time , just text . he think that those would ultimately render the licence fee untenable . have sit through those debate in the 1990 , I find it fascinating that we be sit here , 30 year later , still debate the same issue , and that by and large the people of this country be happy to pay the licence fee , although I agree that an increase number be not do so . give what we get for it , it be still relatively cheap in comparison with the amount that many of we will spend on streaming service . it have survive long than we expect , but in an age of decline linear view , whether it can continue be genuinely a key question . to those who wish to trot through the option , I can only commend the report that the Culture , Media and Sport Committee publish a few year ago . hear , hear . I be grateful for that vocal support from the Opposition Benches . have run through the option , the Committee conclude that , as thing stand , technically it would be quite difficult to find a well way of do this . we all know what the imperfection be , but there may not be anything well at the moment . the key principle , it seem to I , be that because everyone in the country have some stake in this , perhaps a financial stake — everyone be , in some way , buy BBC service — everyone be entitle to some education , information or entertainment in return . it be that strive to provide a universal service that keep the BBC honest , and keep it do the thing that only it do . if we take away that obligation , we may have a successful programme maker , but we would not keep the BBC do the thing it have do successfully for more than a century . I often feel that the licence fee settlement work in practice but do not work at all in theory . nevertheless , anything that might be theoretically well might actually be bad in practice , so I do not envy the Ministers who have to grapple with this matter . it be a genuinely difficult and hugely important issue to which there be no obvious answer . I hope that the House agree that the UK have a hugely valuable asset in the BBC and that , regardless of whatever change need to happen , we need to preserve and enhance its ability to make a significant and positive contribution to our national life . that should be the test that Parliament set itself when it consider the future of the BBC . I serve on the former Digital , Culture , Media and Sport Committee during the last charter negotiation in 2015 - 16 , and I think then that the charter period of 11 year be very long — it be a substantial extension . although that allow the BBC to make long - term decision , a lot change in the medium landscape in that period of time . when the last charter be negotiate 11 year ago , the social medium company that dominate our medium landscape today barely exist . they arrive on the scene in 2015 - 16 as major market player but be not yet what they be now : the principal way in which many people access their entertainment and news . look at Ofcom ' s " Media Nations " study , it be clear that young viewer — people under the age of 40 — increasingly look first to social medium or subscriber platform for their content , rather than do what people would have do in the past , which be to turn on the television and see what be on . that be a dramatic change in the way people consume news and information , and it be not just about a change in the type of content that they can access ; it be also about broadcast move away from a true broadcast service , whereby a very large number of people choose to see the same thing , and towards a personalised service , whereby the content that people consume be design around they and their viewing habit . that apply to news just as much as it do to any other form of content . that be the very big change that we have see , and the prospect of artificial intelligence reduce the cost of production , particularly for news content , will only accelerate the process . the shift in people ' s habit towards consume medium through online platform and social medium app will accelerate the personalisation of the content they see . in fact , such tool have be design precisely to achieve that end . as ever , my hon . friend , who have enormous experience of all this , will add a lot to this debate . he mention what be do some year ago compare with now . have he be watch BBC Four ' s repeat of the entire " Civilisation " series by Kenneth Clark ? do he not think that it be one of the most remarkable example of what the BBC can do fantastically well , and that people should be watch it now ? that be not a bad plug for the series . I agree with my hon . friend . if I may briefly digress on his theme , I once host an event in Parliament for the Royal Television Society at which that programme be discuss . it be say that commission budget and commission editor behave very differently in the past , and that David Attenborough commission the entire series without have to ask for the director - general ' s opinion ; he just do a 14 - part epic of factual content . Alan Clark ' s father , Kenneth Clark , open the " Civilisation " series by ask , " what be civilisation ? " he say , " I don ' t think I can define it , but I think I recognise it when I see it . " I sometimes think that the debate about whether the BBC be distinctive enough and what distinctiveness look like at the BBC be rather the same : it be hard to define , but we think we recognise it when we see it . the reason I want to open my remark by talk about the change nature of view habit and of the medium , and the fact that it would have seem impossible 10 year ago that the centrality of a broadcaster such as the BBC could be challenge by a service such as YouTube , be that it be change view habit too . the one big difference between the charter negotiation in 2015 - 16 and the build - up to the new charter , which will come into effect in 2028 , be that those change habit be lead licence fee payer to make different choice . increasingly , they be choose not to pay . this be the great challenge we now face . in the past , the BBC have to ward off government that seek to load substantial extra cost on to it without compensate with a large increase in the licence fee . we previously see that with the cost of the World Service and then free licence for the over - 75 . this time around , the BBC face the challenge of potentially decline licence fee revenue , alongside the reluctance of consumer to pay much more than they be be ask to pay now . it be doubtful that licence fee payer would support a substantial increase to the licence fee , and I do not think either the Government or the opposition would be incline to do it . the BBC will therefore have to continue challenge itself to consider how it can prioritise resource while maintain its core principle , which I believe be fundamental to the BBC : that it be a publicly fund and universal service , in which there be something for everyone who pay into it . the challenge of how to deliver that in the modern era require the BBC to look for alternative form of revenue . in many way , the big change in the last charter renewal empower the BBC to develop the commercial potential of BBC Studios . in the director - general ' s recent speech , I be pleased to hear that he have set a target to increase those revenue to over £ 3 billion within the charter period . BBC Studios would then bring in a very substantial part of the BBC ' s revenue . make more programme for more people and sell they around the world be an excellent way for the BBC to make money , but we also have to consider how it can monetise its current programme . in the pre - internet world , people would watch a programme they like , and they could watch it again when it be repeat — some say that it would be repeat too often , but it would be repeat . if they wish to own it , so that they could watch it on demand , as we now say , they could buy a cassette or a dvd in a shop . I think programme should be free to air on service such as iPlayer for a period of time , but do they really need to be free for a year ? should there not be a point at which the BBC start to charge people to watch on demand , just as any other subscription platform would ? the same go for audio content . the BBC have try to take a big position in the podcast market , although it have be very effectively challenge by new entrant that be produce programme of the same quality as Radio 4 , on a wide range of topic , and attract very big audience . again , I think those programme should be free to air and available to all , but should access to the full archive remain free forever , or should there be a charge ? it be perfectly legitimate for the BBC to consider such commercial revenue in the same way as it sell book , dvd and cd in the past . these be way in which the BBC can seek to bring in more revenue to reinvest in the programming that it need to make . the BBC also need to consider the distinctiveness of its local newsgathering . this be a very important part of the BBC service . I think most member be concerned about the apparent dilution of investment in local radio , which be an area where the BBC can deliver something in a way that no one else be deliver it . I think there should be increase investment . these be often among the BBC service that local audience value most , and I be not sure those local audience would have make some of the investment decision that the BBC have make . the breadth of service that the BBC offer have change dramatically throughout its history . it may well be that the BBC need to consider whether to prioritise certain service over other , while still remain a universal broadcaster , because it may not be able to deliver the breadth that it deliver now while maintain the quality standard it wish to maintain . these be go to be very important consideration . in term of distinctiveness , I would like to see the BBC take creative risk . it can afford to take creative risk because it be not reliant on advertising revenue to fund its programming . hold an audience at a certain level throughout the day might be a demonstration of universal appeal , but it be not a commercial necessity for the BBC because it be not dependent on advertising revenue . it be a fair criticism to say , " be the service on the BBC schedule , particularly the daytime one , distinct from what we would see on other channel ? " . we largely see the same menu and diet of quiz , antique and property show , which , although popular , be widely available . could the BBC afford to take more risk and be more distinctive there ? the principle of the BBC be publicly fund be important . an aspect of this debate that be not mention enough be that under the alternative where we say to the BBC that we want it to be a voluntary subscription service , the volume of those subscription be almost certain to add up to less than we be talk about for the licence fee today . we would therefore have a much small BBC , largely make programme for a small group of subscriber who wish to pay . that would be a gross act of vandalism against an important national institution . if we have a fully commercial BBC , with full advertising , the big loser would be the other commercial broadcaster — ITV and Channel 4 . they would discover that the revenue pot from advertiser for live tv audience in the UK be not infinite and the BBC would simply be soak it up . we would weaken our creative sector and our television market in the UK by do that . we can not disturb one part of the ecosystem of a great success , british television and film production , without disturb the other component part of it . that be why the BBC ' s remain publicly fund be important , although the mechanism have to be open to challenge . as the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) say , young viewer , in particular , see the licence fee as a type of subscription , no matter how the BBC want to see it . in effect , people see this as a monthly charge they pay , just as they might pay for Amazon Prime or for Netflix ; they do not understand it as a device levy if they be watch tv through a computer or on their laptop . it might be that the BBC will have to be fund in a different way , be it a property - base tax , as have be discuss before by the Select Committee and be the case in Germany , or some other mechanism . if the BBC be fund publicly in that way , it be perfectly legitimate to say , " what amount , what proportion , of that funding should be contestable ? to what extent should another free - to - air broadcaster , or even a subscriber broadcaster such as Sky , be able to come along and say , ' we will make this instead , we will make it well and we will make it free to air . ' " ? what proportion of that revenue should be contestable in that way ? there will be a legitimate debate on that , but open this up too widely would make the BBC ' s sustainability difficult to protect . as we look forward to the end of this charter and the start of the new one , we face a lot of challenge on get this funding mechanism right . it need to give the BBC the revenue and flexibility it need to do what we want it to do . it need to be fund through a charging mechanism that make sense to the public . we also have to consider the viability of other service such as the BBC World Service , which be of huge strategic value to the UK but be largely fund by licence fee payer now . we must consider the extent to which there should be government support for that , particularly in respect of service that be far afield . in closing , I just wish to say that I regard the BBC as a vital national institution . in a world that be become more fractured and where audience be more scatter , the role of a trust national broadcaster that can be impartial — although that will always be open to challenge from people who hold different view — that be resolutely focus on try to get to the truth , and that can be a trusted source of news and information in a world rive by disinformation , conspiracy theory and lie , be of the utmost importance . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) say , a national broadcaster can put on those moment that bring the nation together , be it a royal wedding , royal funeral or the coronation , eurovision or major sporting event . at such time , the nation can come together and the BBC become the national town square . that be a fundamental part of its role in our public life . let I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) on secure this important debate . I class myself as a critical friend of the BBC — I be not sure whether that make I a sympathiser or not . I want to see the BBC prosper in the new medium age , but that inevitably mean we will see change at the BBC , in response to the global creative boom we be witness . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) say , we should not underestimate the soft power involve here : the selling of UK plc around the world by the BBC and its work . however , we simply can not expect the british public to accept an ever - increase licence fee if they perceive the value and approach of the BBC to be out of kilter with their world . my constituent tell I that they value the BBC . they value a british public service broadcaster , particularly for news and current affair , but it seem that the BBC do not value the type of news and current affair that my constituent want , particularly around local news . it be disappointing that the one area where the BBC can genuinely make a difference — local provision — have be the area that have be cut and withdraw in recent month . my constituent be concern about opinion that be present as fact . they want creativity and innovation , but they want to see the world through eye that be from their local area . they want to see their town or their street reflect on the screen or hear through the speaker of their BBC radio station . its good and most distinctive content be unrivalle in range and quality , while be highly value by listener and viewer . some of its service and programme would simply not be possible to provide on a commercial basis . as I say early in response to the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , service like Radio 4 simply would not exist in the commercial marketplace . the majority of my remark will pick up on the comment make by my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford about what the BBC should be do as we move forward post the mid - term review , and think about the next licence fee settlement . the mid - term review provide a valuable insight into the BBC ' s governance and regulation arrangement , and whether they have successfully enable and effectively deliver the BBC ' s mission and public purpose . I particularly welcome the mid - term review agreement with Ofcom and the recommendation to change the framework agreement , so that new BBC service be not automatically consider material change . there be lot of value in Ofcom publicise an annual view on the BBC ' s position in the local news sector , and set out its approach to consider the competition impact of change to BBC local news service , particularly in relation to the local press , which be struggle significantly . the BBC ' s decision to move more of its resource online have a consequence and impact local journalism that be support by advertising . for I , Ofcom should take serious interest in that . Ofcom have say it will set out a view for the first time in November 2024 , and subsequently use its annual report on the BBC to update its view . I particularly welcome that . I will take a few moment to specifically look at the competition and market impact in relation to the audio and radio sector . for context , let we start by look at the audience of BBC Radio . the combined weekly audience for all BBC and commercial radio in the UK remain extremely healthy . some 49 . 5 million people , represent 88 % of the population , put their radio on every week to listen to a linear service . in the last quarter of 2023 , the most recent figure publish by Radio Joint Audience Research , BBC Radio ' s share of total listening be 43 . 2 % . one operator have 43 % of the radio - listen market ; that remain a significant , dominant position . the remain 56 % be split between myriad much small commercial operator . the BBC hold an extremely privileged position because of the scale of funding it receive , its unrivalled broadcast network and its ability to cross - promote its service , the like of which be not available to any rival operator , be that in television , radio or online . I advocate change to the BBC Trust back in the early 2000 , but it be fair to say that there have be a relatively light - touch approach to define and police the activity of the BBC that most closely resemble the commercial sector in the radio and audio world . traditionally , this have include the main pop music service — Radio 1 and Radio 2 — but the BBC be also increasingly leverage its position in radio and audio into its online activity provide on the BBC Sounds platform . this debate provide I with an opportunity to highlight the current process of consultation over the launch of new service on all platform , include BBC Sounds , as well as the effectiveness of regulation and governance from Ofcom in ensure its distinctiveness . specifically , the review look at how the BBC and Ofcom assess the market impact and public value of the BBC in an evolve marketplace and how this relate to the wide UK medium ecology , include with regard to commercial radio and local news sector , and other content maker and distributor . it be important that regulatory condition for BBC radio service be not dilute and that the drive for the BBC to deliver distinctive output remain . the BBC have be repeatedly and rightly criticise by Ofcom for not meet the require standard of openness with stakeholder , especially when new service be be develop . early , I detail that a more structured consultation be require , which be what Ofcom be urge the BBC to do . the current framework place too much emphasis on the BBC ' s own judgment and assessment of impact , especially when consider the significance of change to its own service . this undermine the credibility and independence of the process . Ofcom can and should do more to make sufficiently robust assessment of competitive impact , and need to set out a clear and more consistent requirement for the BBC . the extent of the BBC ' s significant dominance in sector such as radio and the implication of this for both distinctiveness and market impact must be reflect more clearly . BBC service must be measure and hold to account to the high possible standard of distinctiveness . just last week , when I meet people from the BBC , I ask for some datum relate to digital audience . the reply I receive be that they would be publish they annually . that be simply not good enough . in February , the BBC announce plan to launch new spin - off radio station on DAB and BBC Sounds , which would directly imitate radio service provide currently by the independent radio sector . my view be that these new service be duplicate and they fail to deliver distinctive output to listener already concern about change to their beloved BBC local radio service . the change require regulatory approval from Ofcom , and I have raise my concern directly with the Minister and the regulator . I be concerned that the BBC be attempt to fast - track proposal on BBC Sounds , which be subject to less regulatory oversight than the DAB service . as listening habit continue to shift online , there be a real risk of harm to popular and innovative commercial station develop across the UK . station such as Boom Radio have move in to deliver popular service for the over - 50 when Radio 2 move its service to a young age group . if this service be launch exclusively on BBC Sounds , and it inevitably receive significant cross promotion on BBC 1 and on Radio 2 , it will drive audience and can impact commercial operator significantly . in March , the BBC confirm new plan , for the first time in the UK , to run advertising around its podcast and on - demand content on third party platform , such as the Apple podcast app . if these proposal be introduce , listener who do not use BBC Sounds would , in effect , be pay twice for BBC content . they have already pay their licence fee , which have contribute to make the content , but then they will be pay again through advertising revenue . the BBC be unfairly force licence fee payer to pick between ad - free listening on BBC Sounds or their preferred podcast platform . listener should be entitle to access BBC audio content , such as " Desert Island Discs " , via whatever mean they choose . although the podcast advertising market be in its relative infancy , the BBC be dominant in UK audio , which be different from the tv market and , as a result , its impact could and probably will be significant . there be only a limited pool of audio advertising revenue , as my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) reference , with commercial audio broadcaster rely solely on that revenue to fund their service and invest in professional content . ironically , there be a risk that the new proposal will have an unintended consequence for the BBC . as we look at the future of the licence fee , observer may reasonably question , if some BBC audio service could be fund by advertising , why not do that to all their radio provision , or to the BBC as a whole ? analysis conduct by an audio think - tank have already identify that , be that to be the case , probably only Radio 1 and Radio 2 would continue to be fund , because they be the only service that would be commercially viable . I be very supportive of public funding for the BBC under the current licence fee model , simply because I do not think that a suitable alternative could be propose at this stage . give what I believe to be the unworkable nature of alternative such as a subscription model for DAB or FM audio , we simply can not allow anybody to railroad we into scrap the licence fee at this stage . I support the Government ' s aim of ensure that a strong , distinctive , independent BBC can continue to thrive for year to come . I also want we to take opportunity to improve the BBC where we can . my hope be that the mid - term review be a staging post in the charter that will help the BBC to live up to that ambition , support the corporation to fly the flag for Britain in all corner of the world , and address the risk that the BBC , which be not regulate and focus on distinctive content , risk the very future of public service broadcasting and innovation within the independent creative sector . we now come to the Front - Bench contribution . the last two minute will be for Sir Bill to wind up . when the mid - term review of the BBC be publish , one commentator describe it publicly as a " great big hard hammer , badly disguise inside a not very velvet glove " use to batter this key public institution . there be much criticism of the report over the BBC ' s perceive failure to achieve balanced coverage . the sight of some right - wing conservative attack the BBC over its record on impartiality be something to behold . many hound BBC journalist over objectivity , yet the Conservatives be happy for their Benches to operate as a sort of green room for GB News , with half a dozen or so Tory member pop up there regularly , masquerade as journalist . Ofcom , the regulator , have explicitly condemn GB News and its Tory MP presenter over their continue breaking of our broadcasting rule . the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) moonlight as a newsreader daily on GBeebies — a clear breach of Ofcom rule , which the regulator be sadly too weak to enforce . I work for the BBC for many year as a freelancer . Most BBC journalist , I sincerely believe , try to be fair and impartial . they sometimes fall short . I think they do so during the independence referendum — not individual journalist but the BBC as an institution , because the BBC be deeply establishment as an institution . I do not believe for one moment that journalist go to work daily with the objective of spread disinformation . the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) cite as an example of wake Europhile bias the view of Brexiter Rod Liddle . who be this lowly figure when at the BBC ? in fact , he hold the powerful role of the " Today " programme editor . the hon . member for Stone mention Roger Mosey . another junior figure ? no , he be also the " Today " programme editor , who become head of news . set aside the surreal comparison that the hon . member for Stone make between the cost of the BBC and Westminster — that be Westminster One , two , Three and Four , Radio Westminster and Natural Westminster history , presumably — he move on to some more BBC wake bash , conveniently forget that the current BBC director general be a conservative party candidate , the last BBC chair be a major Tory donor , and the last chair but two be now a Tory peer , like Lord Grade , Lord Patten , et cetera , et cetera . in my position on the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , I regularly aim to hold BBC boss to account over their party political loyalty , their judgment and their treatment of staff . that be all part of a healthy democratic critique . this Government , or any Government that hold office in this place , should back public broadcasting as a basic fundamental concept , and celebrate the BBC for its many present and past achievement , while of course remain a critical friend . the constant baiting of the BBC during these last 14 year by so many senior conservative have give we , sadly , a weak public broadcaster , on a shoogli financial footing , with a less positive impact on our democracy than when the Conservatives come to power . I think the hon . Gentleman have slightly misinterpret what I say , and be on the verge of be misleading . I happen to think Ron Liddle be an exceptionally good presenter , as be Roger Mosey and John Humphrys , but their experience demonstrate a degree of awareness that all be not necessarily well in the organisation or the manner in which their programme be put together . that be all I be say . I be not criticise they ; I be commend they . hold the front page ! the hon . Gentleman think that right - wing Brexiters be fundamentally good thing when they appear on the BBC . that be a shock to we all , be it not ? I agree with the right hon . member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) , who he say that the recitation by the hon . member for Stone of the event of one particular editorial meeting show a journalist ' office operating well : somebody say something controversial , other folk argue , and we all have — what be it Mrs Merton say ? — a " right good debate " . I remember when I sit with the right hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) and various other on " on the Record " ; we be all reporter and we all hold very different view , but we do our very good to make sure we be impartial when on air . that be just as it should be . the Conservatives spend a good deal of time argue that the licence fee should rise only with inflation . then , when they trash the economy and inflation rocket , they demand that the BBC not increase the licence fee with inflation , lead to further financial pressure . the Government also impose a social responsibility , tv licence for the over - 75 , on the BBC , lead to a widely predict set of draconian cut . much faux surprise and outrage ensue from some on the Tory Benches . those measure have have a huge negative impact on our public broadcaster , which we as a state have be build now for more than a century . an underfunded BBC suit none of we , because the BBC ' s role in provide scrutiny for politician , especially in an election year , be vital . reform of the BBC be certainly need : pay equality for woman ; more black , asian and minority ethnic staff in senior management post ; and more LGBT people in management and elsewhere . the BBC need to end its fruitless battle with female staff , have lose or settle every single pay case it have fight against those woman , at huge cost . have see two Tory BBC chair improperly appoint and force to resign in the last decade , we surely need a new system for public service appointment . we will have a Labour Government soon . will we see the same old british principle of Buggins ' turn , with Labour donor replace Tory donor in senior post ? the Leader of the opposition should rule out the appointment of any big - money donor as BBC chair . I notice he have conspicuously fail to do so . now would be a good time to promise meaningful reform . I congratulate the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) on give we this opportunity to discuss the BBC . he bring up the concept of " BBC sympathy " . virtually everybody in the Chamber — in fact , I think literally everybody , include he — have express at least some BBC sympathy in this debate . that be testimony to the fact that member with all sort of view on the BBC ' s future , past and present have manage to find something they love about the BBC . my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) recognise , for instance , the value of radio , which be mention by the hon . member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) . my hon . Friend also rightly raise concern about the BBC ' s future and speak about the possible implication of different funding option . he demonstrate that he value it as a trust news source , and mention that that must continue , but without a proper funding arrangement , it could be weaken . I value his contribution . the right hon . member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) give a thorough review of the importance of the BBC to our national life , our economy , our role in the world . he make powerful argument about the way in which funding option have hitherto affect the BBC ' s output . he mention in particular the radio output , as have other . the concern have be raise by many member , include some who be not here today , that the cut and change to local radio , for whatever reason , have have an effect . future proposal may , as the hon . member for Warrington South say , have an effect on competition . concern about that have be raise with he , as well as with my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) , who have be take radio station ’ view on the proposal . I think it right that we consider the effect on competition — the unintended consequence , as the hon . member for Warrington South say . the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) have be a distinguished member of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee over the past 10 year . we have many former member of that Committee here , even in our low number , and they bring such expertise . he give a detailed description of the implication of different form of widen revenue . I urge all member look at the different funding option to read the Hansard report of this debate , because member have make great contribution with thought and care . the hon . member for Warrington South describe himself as a critical friend of the BBC . I think that be an apt way to describe himself , because he raise concern about competition and new proposal while also share what he believe to be unique and distinctive about the BBC . it be worth spend a small amount of time on what be unique and distinctive about the BBC . member have mention radio and podcast . I would add BBC Bitesize , which so many young people rely on during the lockdown year . we have the BBC website . how many member be get BBC News alert pop up on their screen right now ? that be so often our method for learn about something that have just happen . we use it to check the weather in the morning , or to listen back to something that we have miss during the day but which we find really valuable . the content that the BBC be able to put out because of the role we entrust it with — a unique role in our public life — be what make it such a great public service broadcaster . as the Secretary of State write in her foreword to the BBC mid - term charter review , the BBC be an unmatched medium institution that " matter deeply to this country " and to " people right across the world . " I agree . the Government have an important role in both scrutinise and champion the BBC , but the Secretary of State and some of her colleague have have an odd way of show it . I gently suggest to the Minister that the Government need to focus on support the BBC to fulfil its public service broadcasting mission , rather than use it as a punch - bag , as so many conservative Members — many of whom be not here today — have do consistently in recent year . I will underline the importance of the BBC to our national life before address the mid - term review itself . the BBC be one our great institution . it bring wealth , job and joy , alongside other public service broadcaster . it bring people together for share experience , as many right hon . and hon . member have say . from sporting occasion to royal occasion , we be all there . Most people turn to the BBC in the last few hour of the late queen ' s life , but we also turn to it for great moment of rejoice when our new King be crown so recently . the BBC bring together people from the world over in news output , which be particularly recognise and trust , as the right hon . member for Ashford say . the BBC be an important part of our soft power , but it be also vital in the ecosystem of our creative industry . it contribute £ 4 . 9 billion to the UK economy every year , 50 % of which be outside London . many member would argue that that percentage should be high , and we will hold the BBC to its plan to take more investment outside London carefully . I have see the benefit of that for myself in my constituency of Bristol West , which be home to the BBC ' s world - renowne natural history unit . it be not just about the natural history unit itself , but the clustering of creative industry that have develop around it , with independent production company flourish . the BBC be the single large investor in original UK content , create job but also help we to tell our national story in a distinctive british way . that be the first " b " — it be the British Broadcasting Corporation ; it be not anything else but british — and it keep british life front and centre . I salute the BBC for its desire to improve and innovate , and to widen its range of content . the hon . member for Stone talk about a diversity of view , and I believe that that be already with we . we have a diversity of output — of regional output , of regional voice and of story tell — but every member should always challenge the BBC to go far on that , because champion a diversity of view be one of the thing we be here to do in our role as mps . however , the BBC be now compete for our attention with global medium conglomerate that be motivate by profit , rather than by public service — those be different function . those include streaming service , but also content across social medium , so it be important that we support and work with the BBC to change with the time , as well as challenge it to do so . we need to make sure it get the support it need . of course , the BBC need a modern governance framework that be robust , proportionate and fit for purpose . the introduction of the unitary board to govern the BBC and the regulation of the BBC by Ofcom be both new element in the 2015 - 16 charter review . that review include a focus on governance and regulatory issue , and therefore the BBC ' s mission , public purpose and funding model be write out of the scope of this mid - term review . the Government choose to focus on six theme . the first be editorial standard and impartiality , which many member have address today , and the second be the handling of complaint . I have to mention to the hon . member for Stone that just because a complaint with which he sympathise be not uphold , it do not mean that the regulator be wrong . he pose an interesting argument : that a large volume of complaint not be uphold mean that the complaint system be not good enough . the Minister may wish to address that point in her remark . the other theme be competition and market impact , commercial governance and regulation , diversity , and transparency . overall , the finding of the review indicate that the BBC ' s governance and regulation be work well . it say that that be particularly true of the BBC ' s commercial activity — something that be worth note . I welcome the review ' s recommendation to push the BBC to continue make improvement in relation to diversity — diversity of view , of voice and of identity — and transparency . if I be the next Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , I will continue to push the BBC to do so . the BBC have make clear commitment in both those area and be make progress towards meet those commitment , but there can never be room for complacency in any creative organisation . I will always hold the BBC to account : it take public money to do the work that it do , and represent the wide diversity of voice be so important . as other member have say , it be right that Ofcom should assess the impact of the BBC ' s decision on the wide market , but it should also be note that of all 35 materiality assessment review by Ofcom since the start of this charter period , it have dispute only one . it be also right that the BBC have a clear , easy to understand and robust complaint process — that be why the principle of " BBC First " be introduce in 2017 , so that licence fee payer can hold the BBC directly accountable . it be important to be guide by evidence . of course , it be right that the BBC be impartial , and that there be a process for assess that impartiality ; that be the only way in which the BBC will remain the UK ' s most trusted source of news and , some would claim , the world ' s most trusted source . it should therefore be note that Ofcom have uphold only one complaint against the BBC regard impartiality in the eight year since the beginning of this charter . it be important that member of all view recognise the role of the mid - term charter review , but also the work that government of all colour will need to do . in a context of rise disinformation and misinformation spread by highly sophisticated state and non - state actor , and in a year in which the citizen of so many country be take to the poll , our public service broadcaster could not be more precious . our democracy be the rich for it . the information that the mid - term review gather on the public perception of the BBC be also evidence — it be evidence of what the public think about the BBC . that be fundamentally important , and my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston raise that in reflect the view of his own constituent . the BBC spend 100 year build trust , and it can not stop now and it can not take its reputation for grant . I believe it be do neither . I believe it be work hard to move forward , but it will always be hold to account . the next charter review will , I hope , take place under a Labour Government , and we will work constructively with the BBC to make sure it be fit for the 21st century . it will be inform by the BBC ' s big ever public engagement exercise , which will begin next year . it will be inform by an understanding of the great contribution the BBC make to storytelle — british storytelling — as well as to the growth of the creative industry in the UK , and its unique role in bring community together . most importantly , it will be inform by a true appreciation of the value of a source of both entertainment and news that we can trust . I thank all hon . member who have contribute to what have be a genuinely interesting and rich discussion . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) on secure this important debate on our mid - term review of the BBC . as I approach my — ahem — 40th birthday in just under four week ' time , I would rather be celebrate his 40th anniversary as a parliamentarian , which pass only day ago . he will be retire from this place when the general election come call , leave behind four decade of service to our nation and a legacy of relentless campaigning , the crown achievement of which will be his effort to restore sovereignty to this place . he have be a parliamentarian of substance and impact , and a parliamentarian who have understand his fundamental role , which be first and foremost to serve the people and interest of this our great nation . one of my hon . friend ' s technique as a relentless campaigner — I hope he will not mind my saying this — be lie in wait for Ministers and pounce on they , with surprising agility for an octogenarian , in darken corridor or vote lobby to advance the cause close to his heart . so it have be that on many occasion we have discuss BBC impartiality . of course , his interest in this subject extend well beyond my three year as Media Minister — he reference 1984 , 1990 and 2003 — because it be a cause he have champion for decade . why ? because , as he imply , it go to the heart of the special contract between the british people and the BBC : that the BBC will be fund in a unique way , via the licence fee , because it have unique duty in how it cover national event , produce content , report on and shape public debate , and imbue the british value of fairness , free speech and rigour into the BBC World Service as an international projection of our nation . as my hon . friend reflect in a debate last month , he play an important role in put the issue of BBC impartiality at the centre of the current charter . I regret that he will not be here in the next Parliament with his institutional knowledge , when a new generation of MPs will need to make some very big decision about the future of the BBC as its next royal charter be draw up , the foundation for which we be lay now . the mid - term review have be one of the staging post to that moment , and it will be a huge moment for UK broadcaster , audience and creator because the world be change around we , and change very rapidly . the question that have preoccupy public debate on the BBC ' s future the most be the sustainability of the licence fee , which have be mention several time . be in no doubt but that that will be a big part of the discussion on the charter renewal . the number pay the licence fee be fall whether or not people be advocate of it . the way audience , particularly young audience , consume content be break their traditional relationship with the linear broadcaster , weaken the loyalty to and the love of the institution . audience feel that the BBC be not adequately reflect they , as have also be touch on . as a consequence , they have lose trust in it and be start to not want to pay the licence fee . the fact that most television will be receive over the internet will introduce new gatekeeper and promoter of content , and none of we quite know how AI will shape the information industry . the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) speak about these challenge with great clarity , as do my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , who bring his considerable expertise to this debate . before I turn in more detail to the mid - term review , my ask of this House , if I may make one , as we debate the BBC in the come month and year be that we do not lose focus on the very big picture as we fret over the urgent or everyday matter surround the BBC , its coverage and its presenter . since the second world war , we have understand our country and its value in part through the strength of its great institution , as be mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) . the BBC be surely one of they , but it be not enough simply to will it to have a future and expect that to be the case . as the world change around we , those institution whose strength we have perhaps complacently rely upon must go through a process of renewal — a renewal that provide clarity of purpose and a sense of mission for the next decade of the 21st century — and , dare I say it , that include the Conservative party and a renewal of centre - right thinking . in the BBC ' s case , that mission must surely include the vigorous pursuit of truth in a world in which information and fact be blur with increase sophistication and intent . it must not just provide audience with a narrow diet of content that suit an individual ' s taste or cater to their own worldview , but challenge , inform , educate and provoke curiosity in a way that pull people out of their silo and in a way that serve all audience , but especially our child , as a counter to malign element of the online world and the pull of addictive entertainment over nourish educational content that help they navigate the real world around they . as this House have make patently clear , that include local audience , and my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) have campaign particularly strongly on that . one of the most interesting part of the director - general ' s recent speech about the future of the BBC be about algorithm , which be design by many organisation to monetise controversy . he set out how the BBC in the 21st century be develop unique ethical algorithm that do not simply double down on an individual ' s narrow preference but guide they into a broad , rich catalogue and bring people together . at charter renewal , there might also be interesting question about how we can well create and deliver public service content if young audience be move elsewhere , and about whether a wide range of outlet and creator be well place to deliver that . my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe touch on that . we will need to look at the BBC World Service as a force for project our value globally as malign state seek rapidly to up the stake in the battle for heart and mind . finally , there will be important question about the BBC ' s vital role in feed the wide broadcasting and creative ecology in a way that will allow we in the UK to continue as a world leader in creativity and to retain our cultural voice . that be an aspect of the BBC debate that be often overlook or misunderstood when we discuss its value . it have lead the director - general to describe the BBC as " a growth and innovation fund for the UK … to back british storytelling . " the mid - term review touch on some of these issue , but it should be see as the staging post that it be — a new innovation introduce at the last charter to understand whether the BBC be operate in the way envisage at the last charter review , but also to signal where we think thing may need to change by 2027 . I understand that for some member , my hon . friend the Member for Stone include , the mid - term review do not go far enough on issue close to their heart and I want gently to challenge that view . the mid - term review deliver a number of significant and necessary reform , focus on editorial standard and impartiality , whether the BBC have the right complaint model , and the distinctiveness of the BBC ' s content in relation to competition and market impact . I want to be clear that the discussion within the mid - term review with the BBC and Ofcom , lead by my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State , result in recommendation she get over the line , with the licence fee payer always at front of mind . our review be unambiguous that there be scope for material improvement across a variety of area and it make 39 recommendation for meaningful change . as my hon . friend the Member for Stone have previously mention , impartiality be at the heart of the mid - term review and we conclude that it continue to be a major challenge for the BBC . follow direct and constructive dialogue with we in Government , the BBC be implement major reform build on the Serota review , and that include thematic review of output — most recently , we see one this week on migration coverage . a key feature of the mid - term review be the recommendation for Ofcom ' s regulatory responsibility , include its oversight of due impartiality , to be extend to key area of the BBC ' s online public service material , which be where many now go for their content . the BBC also have an important tool at its disposal in its effort to continue build trust in its relationship with its audience and that be the complaint process . as member will know , the BBC be unique among broadcaster in have the chance — indeed , the responsibility — to try and resolve audience complaint about its content first before they be consider by the independent regulator Ofcom . the ongoing feedback of licence fee payer to the BBC and how that feedback flow directly to staff and programme maker be invaluable in help the BBC understand what its audience care about and how to make its service well . we have hear concern through the mtr about complaint , and that be why they form a key focus of our review , and it be the area where we make the most recommendation . I recognise the strength of feeling among some member . for those colleague , fundamental question remain about the appropriateness of the " BBC First " principle , and that be why at charter review we have commit to examine whether " BBC First " remain the right complaint model to enable the BBC to deliver against its responsibility to serve all audience . my hon . friend the Members for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) and for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) talk about the BBC ' s role in the market and the impact on commercial competitor , and that be also raise in the mid - term review . the charter do not preclude the BBC have an adverse impact on the market , if the BBC and Ofcom believe that be necessary for the effective fulfilment of the BBC ' s mission and public purpose . we talk extensively with industry during the review , and we find that a lack of effective engagement have the potential to risk the BBC ' s and Ofcom ' s decision - make process . we be clear that the BBC need to drive high standard for that stake - holder engagement and transparency so that business operate in the same market can be support . we have therefore make recommendation to ensure that the BBC strengthen that engagement with competitor in the medium . in particular , that should include commercial radio station and local newspaper , especially when it make decision that impact they . while the mid - term review will deliver material improvement in the BBC ' s governance and regulation , I reiterate that it be only one part of the Government ' s ongoing programme of work to scrutinise the BBC , with more to come as we move towards charter review . this will be a significantly broad process than the mid - term review , consider what the BBC be for and how it be fund . that be why , before charter review , the next major step in our roadmap be the funding model review . over its 100 - year history , the BBC have prove to be one of the most adaptable , innovative and forward - think medium organisation on our planet . across time , the BBC have show its ability to open itself up to external scrutiny , reflect on challenge and find learn opportunity . we trust it will do so again , absorb the finding of the mid - term review and improve its structure and process — not as an end in itself , but to maintain the support of audience and underline its purpose for truth telling and trust . we all rely on the BBC be the good it can be , and we need to set the foundation for its renewal in the 21st century as a vital british institution , not to protect the institution for its own sake , but because its purpose of truth seek and have the high quality content have be renew and accept as vital by the people and the nation we be elect here to serve . may I commend the Minister not only on her speech just now , but on have continually engage with I on the subject over the past few year ? she have be dedicate to her task , and I do not come at this debate with rose - tint spectacle ; I have be critical of the BBC , and I will continue to be so on the term I express . I be glad to note that she have say that the Government believe , as the mid - term review say , that there be room for improvement . that improvement be in part to do with attitude and with statistical analysis and datum , and I set all that out in my speech . it be also to do with the group - think that still gravitate in certain cohort at the BBC and Ofcom , but I have make my point on that and it be on the record . I accept entirely that this organisation , which have be go for so long , have an incredibly important role to play in our national life . it be precisely because it impinge day by day , hour by hour on our opinion , thought and attitude that it be so important that impartiality be sustain in the correct manner and by reference to criterion ; it should not be judge and jury . as Baroness Deech say in her letter in the Daily Telegraph on 23 January this year , the BBC require a great degree of independence , and she even refer to an independent ombudsman . I be not satisfied — the figure I have give perhaps illustrate it well , and there be a lack of sufficient proof — that the ecu system be work as well as some people hope . I have deep misgiving about it , as I have express . the proof of the pudding be in the eating , and these improvement , I hope as a result of this debate , will be examine in that light . I simply say this to my hon . friend on the Government side , and to those on the Opposition side , some of whom be somewhat more critical about what I have have to say than other . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) and my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) . I recognise that they really know what they be talk about and have enormous experience of these matter . this have be an important debate . I be sorry that the 30 - odd colleague who sign my application to the Backbench Business Committee have not be here today — their presence would have be lovely , but to some degree it reflect the difficult few week we have have — but , notwithstanding that , I be glad that we have have the debate . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for her response and to the other member who participate . the debate have be more than worthwhile and be another landmark in consider the improvement that we can achieve in relation to the BBC in the future . I suspect that , like I , many of you have watch the eurovision song contest for many decade with bated breath , expectation and hope . we wish Graham Norton well as he front the show this weekend , and we wish Olly Alexander incredibly well — we all hope that he will win . if any of you be free that night , Mr Fletcher , the Government Whip , tell I that he be have a eurovision song contest party at his house , as will many people throughout the country . good luck , everybody , on that contest . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the BBC mid - term charter review . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry More than nine year ago , I share with the House the story of Mrs Lesley Hughes , who finally discover in 2014 that she have be infect with hepatitis C back in 1970 by an NHS blood transfusion after a serious road traffic accident . for she and other severely affect constituent , I present this , the late in a long series of similar petition from all over the United Kingdom . the petition of Mrs Diana Brooks and other state : the petition of resident of the constituency of New Forest East , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002976 ] local Government official : Bullying Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) I rise to consider the potential merit of Government measure to tackle the bullying of local government official . this short debate seek to explore the Government ' s plan properly to provide for enforcement of the code of conduct applicable to parish and town councillor , give the amount of bullying and intimidation experience by local council clerk . far too many town and parish council clerk face regular intimidation by a minority of councillor , and there be at present insufficient enforcement mechanism and penalty to resolve the issue . good people be resign as a result . the turnover rate for clerk be far great than the average for most comparable form of employment . an article in the Telegraph online on 1 October 2022 state that a preliminary academic survey of town and parish council " find that over half … have experience behavioural issue from councillor , include bullying and disrespect towards other representative or clerk " . the finding also show " an imminent loss of expertise amid a shortage of young clerk " . there be at least three important organisation with strong view about this worrying situation : the Association of Local Council Clerks , the National Association of Local Councils and the Society of Local Council Clerks . they be not unanimous in their recommendation , but they all recognise the reality of the crisis . all three have have constructive conversation with my staff and I in recent month , for which I be very grateful . the SLCC have state : " 15 % of parish council experience serious behaviour issue … 5 % be effectively dysfunctional as a result of they . " that figure obviously vary to a degree over time , but the ALCC have recently indicate that it consider the problem to be worsen rather than improve . I have be provide with deeply disturbing first - hand testimony of inappropriate behaviour by a small percentage of council member . it may only be one or two individual on any give council , but the effect of their behaviour on the clerk , other councillor and other staff can be unbearable . it can easily cause a breakdown in health and subsequent departure from a much - value career . clerk often feel that their job be at risk unless they carry out the wish of individual councillor , even though the councillor in question may be try to act outside the legislative requirement , thus force the clerk to act illegally . I be advise that many clerk fear for their job on a daily basis . in my view , much of the problem arise from the lack of an independent body to oversee councillor behaviour and to impose sufficient penalty to discourage such behaviour when it occur . sufficient code of conduct be in place for councillor . they be usually clear , unambiguous and base on the nolan principle , but their enforcement and the imposition of appropriate penalty when their provision be break be sadly miss . the standard board be abolish in 2012 , and the current system of local authority staff enforcement — via monitor officer — do not work as effectively as would an independent system . in May 2023 , it be confirm that , nationally , there be an excessive turnover of monitor officer . that be hardly surprising , give that they have to take action in a quasi - judicial role , sometimes against their own councillor , who be their employer at principal authority level , while those councillor also possibly sit on town or parish council , too . as I mention , it be not only staff but other councillor who find themselves be bully . I shall not identify any specific council or individual in this speech , yet I know of one case where several councillor resign during a three - year period because of bully by the chairman of that council . in a separate case , two councillor be call upon to step down after their attempt to bully the council clerk out of her job be prove . a third council be plunge into disarray after eight member resign amid claim of bullying , harassment and abuse , and the town clerk also resign at the same time and for the same reason . there be very many specific example which could be cite , because such misconduct have become so common as almost to be routine on the part of a really small but poisonous minority of councillor . of course , the vast majority of councillor neither accept nor condone such terrible behaviour , but they do not have the necessary mean to deal effectively with the disruptor and the bully . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) here be one scenario post on the internet by a despairing councillor : " we have a Parish Councillor who continually harass the Clerk out of hour , at home and by email , about pretty well everything the Clerk do . the Clerk be respectful , knowledgeable and more than capable ; but this individual say to the Chairman ' I can question the Clerk because I be a Parish Councillor ' . we have lose three clerk in less than three year because of this dreadful man and I fear we be go to lose this one . " give finding such as the academic survey I mention early , this be clearly a situation that must not be allow to continue . apart from the impropriety aspect , the turnover of staff cause by bully be economically damaging , lead to severe loss of efficiency in the affect parish and town council . then there be the additional recruitment and training cost for those council which lose their clerk through resignation . several council have also be take to court for constructive dismissal claim relate to harassment . once again , this would be much less likely to arise if there be proper regulation and proper enforcement . I be really grateful to the right hon . gentleman for bring forward this debate . I have a long - term interest in look at workplace bully across the piece and be bring forward a private member ' s Bill on 7 June to ensure we have a legal definition for bullying , which we currently do not have in our suite of legislation . I hope he will be able to support the Bill . but beyond that , we must ensure there be a route to an employment tribunal so that people be protect at work . would he be minded to work with I and support that , and to find the mechanism to put positive behaviour into all workplace ? this be the first I have hear about the hon . Lady ' s initiative . it sound absolutely admirable and I would be very interested in support her effort . I particularly commend the idea of a clear and legal definition of bullying , because we all know that there be sometimes subjective approach to the subject , where even a word of legitimate criticism be interpret as that , unjustifiably , so she be definitely on the right track . the SLCC state : " throughout the sector , there be grow concern about the impact bullying , harassment and intimidation be have on Councils , Councillors and staff and the result effectiveness of those local council " . the three national association be fully aware of the issue , but without Government intervention it be unlikely that they alone can solve this dreadful problem . the preferred approach of the NALC be to focus on certain recommendation , previously make by the Committee on Standards in Public Life , which have yet to be adopt . indeed , the NALC assist I in the drafting of early - day motion 611 , table in November 2022 and support by 27 hon . and right hon . member , which specifically ask the Government to : " re - visit its response to the Committee on Standards in Public Life report on local government ethical standard and introduce the report ' s recommendation in full include tough sanction such as suspension for poorly behave councillor . " in addition to that , however , the SLCC and the ALCC have indicate their endorsement of an alternative option formulate by Mr Derek Biggs , the hugely experienced and highly respected former town clerk of Totton in my constituency , to whom I be indebted for his insight . this way forward , which I fully support , would be for the Minister to agree to set up a work party of expert in the area of town and parish council to examine the issue in depth and recommend practical solution to deal with it . the work party ' s brief would be to ensure the design and establishment of an appropriate , independent enforcement body , and to propose legislation provide for penalty sufficient to act as a deterrent to transgressor . that would be one way of finally deal with those who ignore the proper standard of behaviour that be rightly expect and approve by the Government . we really need to work together and end their sense of impunity in respect of unacceptable conduct in town and parish council . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) for raise this important subject , and also to the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) for her helpful intervention . I look forward to her Bill . I have be urge to be brief . as a fellow Welshman , Mr Deputy Speaker , you will know that that can sometimes be quite tricky , but I understand from my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Mark Fletcher ) , the Whip on duty , that he be keen to rush home to start make his cheese and pineapple hedgehog in preparation for his Eurovision Song Contest party ; we all look forward , of course , to his extended invitation . so I want to be serious but also to be as brief as I can , in respect for the House . the debate be timely , because it come just a week after election to many of our town and parish council up and down the land . I want to take the opportunity — as I have on previous occasion when I have meet parish councillor — to put on record our sincere thank for their service to their community . they be always unpaid and usually unsung hero , work to deliver change and improvement to the town and village in which they live and serve . I suppose I should declare a slight interest , have start my political career as a parish councillor before migrate to the district council , supposedly move upwards to the county council , and then fetch up here . with the exception of membership of the other place , I have the full set of badge . my right hon . friend ' s point be particularly important because the councillor elect last week be be welcome to their new authority and be induct — for the first time , in some instance — into the rule and convention of public life . we all know that vibrant local democracy flourish where the reputation of the local authority be hold in high regard . it be an honour and a privilege to serve as a community representative , and all those seek and achieve public office should be hold themselves to the high standard of conduct in recognition of the trust place in they . the electorate have a right to expect councillor to behave well and respectfully in all their interaction — with each other , with member of staff , and with the public . councillor ' decision making should be honest , demonstrably transparent , fair , objective , and in the good interest of all whom they serve . there be no place in our system and structure of local government for bullying , intimidation or harassment . my right hon . friend ' s remark focus on bullying , intimidation and other inappropriate behaviour on the part of councillor . as he will know , there have be incident where council clerk have effectively be charge with such offence , so it can go both way . it be important to nip it in the bud and cut it out as quickly as possible — not just for the standard in public life set out by Nolan and reiterate this afternoon , but because it fundamentally sour the work environment of public service when people abuse their position , bully , cajole , intimidate and so forth in council meeting . as my right hon . friend have note , there be rule that apply . I be concerned that we still occasionally think of our town council , and especially our parish council , as some sort of quaint , Edwardian and Vicar of Dibley - like institution where people quibble about whose turn it be to do the biscuit or whatever . instead , they be do incredibly important work . as my right hon . friend will know , there be no cap that we in central Government can place on the precept of town and parish council ; we merely rely on their good common sense . we know that many town and parish council across the land have be ask to take up role and responsibility — the management of public loo , for example — on behalf of their upper - tier authority , and they willingly do so . those upper - tier authority — be they borough , district or county council — can be cap , and when there have be pressure on local government finance and close collaboration between the constituent part of the local government family , some burden have be pass on to low - tier authority . my right hon . friend be right to point out that there be some standard lacunae — I put it no more firmly than that . as he set out in some detail , there be a clear and growingly compelling case for have a look at this issue again . I would be more than happy to continue the conversation that I have have with NALC since I be appoint last November . I would include the ALCC and the SLCC , and I be more than happy to include my right hon . friend in those discussion to try to find a common - sense route to go through . I shall seize on that potential opportunity to ask whether we could all come and see the Minister together . there be a lot of operator in this field , and to have he and representative of the three organisation in the same room at the same time would be an extremely positive step . I begin my working day with an official visit to Croydon Council , follow by a visit to Slough Borough Council . both be hugely enjoyable and rewarding , and the offer of be seize by my right hon . friend during this Adjournment debate be an invitation I can not resist . he make a very important point , and I should have make that clear in my remark . there be considerable and compelling merit to meet the three body together . there be some overlap and some divergence of view , and different organisation will have different way of see and identify solution to a problem . let we have a roundtable , if one want to call it that , or a meeting in the Department to try to identify the issue , and to try to deliver the simple , easy and most straight - forward solution . we would do so not to be unduly heavy - handed , or to impose the dead hand of Marsham Street on our vibrant town and parish council , but because we hold dear , and view to be important and precious , those value of civility , transparency , decency , common sense and collegiality in all the fora in which elect or appoint people discharge public duty . that be an expectation that the public rightly place on all of we , and it be sometimes a challenge , but it be one to which we be all capable of rise . I look forward to further the discussion with my right hon . friend . I close by again thank the hon . member for York Central for her contribution , but I particularly thank my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East who , with his usual calm , methodical logic , put forward a compelling case that only a perverse Minister of the Crown could seek to resist . question put and agree to . House adjourn .