it be indeed a special occasion to be there today for his Majesty ' s first King ' s Speech and particularly to see he continue the remarkable tradition of service and duty of his late mother , our dearly miss Queen Elizabeth . I declare my interest in relation to the armed force in Ukraine and my role as co - chair of the LGBT + parliamentary Labour party and the relevant appg . the speech today , as an occasion , be very special ; the content , I be afraid , be far from that . it be short , it be inadequate and it simply do not rise to the challenge we face as a country . this be fundamentally a Government who be out of idea . stuck in a high - tax , low - growth economy , they have abandon their promise in many area and fail to invest in our public service , and instead engage in cheap , divisive politic . what a contrast with the clear , mission - lead agenda set out by the Leader of the Opposition , which would be at the heart of a future UK Labour Government . it be always there in the talk point for Ministers at the Dispatch Box , and we hear some barracking today from conservative Back Benchers , but I be feed up with the cheap shot and the talk down of Wales that we regularly hear from the Government Benches . there be a stark contrast between what we have see from this Tory Government at the UK level and what we have see from a Labour - lead Government in Wales , and indeed from my labour - lead council in Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan . I have see the reality on the doorstep and in my community . I have see new school be build , such as Eastern High and Penarth Learning Community . I have see a new further education college . I have see new hospital facility be build at Llandough . I have see new station be build , right at this moment , on a metro line into Cardiff Bay . I have see new economic investment in our city centre and bay . indeed , as the topic of homelessness have be so shamefully speak about by the Home Secretary , I have also see Labour council in Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan build new sustainable housing to deal with the challenge face those who tragically find themselves on the street . that be what we need to see : action on housing and action on homelessness , not divisive and shameful comment from the Home Secretary . the Leader of the opposition be absolutely right to highlight that . I be conscious that there be always more to do . I have be out and about in my constituency in Cardiff South and Penarth in the last few week , engage with lot of different community and lot of different concern . we continue our campaign to see a new station build in St Mellons , the St Mellons parkway station . I have be raise concern about poor performance on the great western main line . I have be argue for reform to , and the protection of , local bus service . I have be listen to the concern of those on low income struggle to make end meet , include local taxi driver , and those struggle with their energy bill and the rent and mortgage hike as a result of the Conservative Government . I have also be meet those concerned about local gp service . we need adequate and fit - for - the - future service across Cardiff and Penarth . but of course that can only come with adequate investment across the United Kingdom and a co - operative relationship between a UK Government — hopefully a UK Labour Government — and a Welsh Labour Government , along with Welsh Labour council in Wales . one of the stark contrast in approach between Wales and those of we on the Labour Benches , and the current Government , be on climate change and the green transition . the Government have abandon target and be go backwards when we need to be move forward with green transition , green job , green investment , sustainable housing and adaptation . community in my local area , in place such as Sully and Dinas Powys , be already experience the consequence of severe flooding and rainfall event . but I also see the opportunity , for example in green steel , the recycled steel already in produce in my constituency , and in green industry and green technology of the future , many be pilot at our fantastic university in Cardiff and south Wales . let I turn to some of the other issue in the King ' s Speech . on leaseholder reform , I be interested to see the detail of the proposal . there have be a lot of cross - party work on the issue and concern raise on behalf of many constituent . I have many leaseholder — ten of thousand — in my constituency who have be struggle with defective building , fire and building safety issue , extortionate and often inexplicable service charge , and be catch in mortgage prison . there be a whole industry around conveyancing , survey and so on , which have fail many of my resident who find themselves catch up in untenable situation . in particular , I have meet some of they in recent week who have be tell I about shocking service charge , which I be try to follow up with management company . company be still fail to move forward quickly enough , or indeed at all , on remediation , and to take responsibility for their failing in the construction of building , particularly in Cardiff Bay . I raise concern with the Welsh Government on those issue , but we need co - operative action across the United Kingdom . a lot of the problem predate devolution . the leasehold system be decade and decade old — I think hundred of year old . I want Bills on this issue to come forward in this place , with co - operation between official at the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the Welsh Government , not the silly political gameplaying we have see , unfortunately , from some conservative . there be a willingness ; the Welsh Government be take a constructive approach . let we see that meet from the other side to benefit my resident and the resident of member from across the House . we also need to look at what be miss from the King ' s Speech . I could talk about that for hour , but I want to highlight two issue in particular . one be , of course , the ban on conversion therapy that we be promise again and again and again by the Government . conversion therapy be a despicable , abusive practice . frankly , the fact that it be not include in the speech be a betrayal not only of the victim of conversion therapy across the country , but of all the campaign group , and all the cross - party , cross - religious and cross - community group who have argue for it to be ban . conversion therapy be a dangerous , life - threaten practice that lead to decade of consequence for those who go through it . I contrast that again with Labour ' s commitment to a fully inclusive ban on conversion therapy . I be sorry to say — this follow on from a debate we have in Westminster Hall in the previous Session just a few week ago — that this do not come as any surprise , despite some very passionate speech from Conservative Members . I acknowledge that there be member in that debate from , I think , all party in the House and from all part of the United Kingdom . the Government have abandon their LGBT + action plan and disband their LGBT + advisory board . I be tell by a Home Office Minister that we be hysterical for raise concern about the significant rise in hate crime face by the LGBT + community . the Government be fail LGBT + people and be instead use this issue as part of their divisive culture war . it be simply unacceptable , and I know that many conservative Members — indeed , many Ministers , I be tell — feel exactly the same way . another area miss from the King ' s Speech — a deep shame give the motion that be pass unanimously by the House — be an issue I raise a few week ago : legislation on the seizure of russian state asset to repurpose they for reconstruction in Ukraine . the motion we pass be for legislation to be pass in 90 day . the King ' s Speech would have be an apt opportunity , albeit a little bit late , but it be absent . again , what be happen ? I hope the Government will have some answer soon . I have to say , and it be good to see my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) the shadow Defence Secretary on the Labour Front Bench , that it be deeply disappointing to hear the Prime Minister ' s divisive comment about the armed force and security . they be a disservice to those on the Labour Benches who have serve , as well as to family and community . the reality be that Labour fully support NATO and fully support our independent nuclear deterrent . we want security co - operation , with NATO as our bedrock , across Europe , our atlantic partner and other ally . this Government have slash the Army , waste billion and leave those who serve we bravely in Afghanistan languish in hotel for month and month on end at great cost to the public purse . it would be nice to see a bit more of a consistent approach and more truth about Labour ' s position . we will defend this country , we will defend our armed force and we will work to support our veteran as we rightly should , particularly as we be come up to Remembrance Sunday this weekend . I normally talk from the Opposition Front Bench on international issue , but I want to reflect as a constituency MP on some of the challenge face the world at the moment . that be important in a constituency such as mine , because of its nature as a port and have have people come from all over the world for over 150 year . what happen elsewhere in the world — in Israel and Palestine , Afghanistan , Sudan , Libya , the Sahel , south Asia , Yemen , Nigeria , Syria and many , many other region and country — matter deeply to my constituent . in the past week I have hear from constituent about their anguish at the death , loss of civilian life and destruction in Gaza , and their horror at the terrorism , hostage taking and kill that Israel and its citizen have have to endure . I have hear about the need to ensure we protect civilian , aid worker , hospital and school ; to secure humanitarian pause and get humanitarian aid in , particularly into Gaza ; and to move back to a pathway to peace and a two - state solution , and to an adherence to international law and international humanitarian law . I have also , with other hon . member and neighbour in Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan , hear face to face from those who have family who be directly affect in both Gaza and Israel — a genuine fear about what division can mean for we in our community . I be also proud of the resilience and response from community in Cardiff South and Penarth , whether in raise fund for aid and relief effort in many different situation around the world , include in the middle east at the moment , or in work to promote inter - faith and inter - cultural dialogue here in the UK . that be absolutely critical when we be face with a shocking rise in antisemitism and Islamophobia , and a wide rise in race and religious hate crime . I want to conclude by say that this weekend I see community in my area at their very good . I join Indian — Hindu , Sikh and other — community celebrate Diwali together . I join a very diverse group of Christian and other faith community who be celebrate with the Greek Orthodox Church 150 year of the greek and greek - cypriot community in Cardiff South and Penarth . I also meet young Muslims and other with Citizens Wales to discuss their hope and aspiration for the future . we need more dialogue in this country and less division . I would hope that that would be the heart of any Government ' s programme . I know it would be the heart of a Labour Government ' s programme .