I thank the hon . member for his intervention and , indeed , for his contribution to the debate . that be not a commitment that we be in a position to make ; it would be for the new Leader of the Opposition to nominate for peerage those whom he or she wish to nominate , in the normal way . a number of member , include the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , talk about wide reform of the House of Lords . as set out in the labour manifesto , the Government be commit to replace the House of Lords with an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the region and nation of the UK . that would be a major change to the functioning of our Parliament and our constitution , so it be right that it should be precede by a significant period of detailed consideration and consultation . the Government will set out further detail of that process in due course , include how we will seek the british public ' s input on how politic can well serve they . however , that should not prevent progress on other important and long - overdue reform , include through this Bill and other initial reform , to help deliver a small and more active second Chamber . the Government ' s manifesto make it clear that the measure in the Bill would be introduce to implement immediate reform , which be what we be set out to do . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , too , talk about wide reform . I thank she for take the time to meet I and the Minister for the Cabinet Office to talk about her concern and her ambition for further reform ; I be grateful for that engagement . I want to stress that this be a new Government with a fresh mandate and a set of manifesto pledge that we be commit to implement . this Bill deliver immediate reform . as my right hon . Friend mention in his opening speech , part of the reason why there have be no further progress over the last 25 year be the argument that nothing should be do until everything have be do . we firmly believe in take this first step as a matter of priority , and it be right that we take time to consider how good to implement other manifesto commitment that the Government have previously set out . we will engage with peer and the public , where appropriate , over the course of this Parliament and update the House in due course . the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) make a point about the commencement of the Bill . the Bill will remove the remain hereditary peer at the end of the parliamentary Session in which it receive Royal Assent . the timing of the Bill ' s implementation ensure that the business of the House will not be undermine by the sudden departure of a number of hereditary peer in the middle of the Session . subject to the timely progress of the Bill , we will give notice to exist hereditary peer to give valedictory speech . the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) raise some concern about the balance in the House of Lords if this Bill be pass . it be important to point out that no political party have hold an overall majority in the House of Lords in recent time , and this Bill will not change that . the role of the Lords be to scrutinise and hold the Government to account in the context of the primacy of the House of Commons . the hon . member be right to say that the Bill decrease the number of peer on the Opposition Benches , but the share of the Opposition ' s seat in the Lords will reduce from around 34 % to around 32 % . give that the Conservatives will remain the large party in the second Chamber , I be sure that hon . member will agree that the Bill be hardly a power grab . I very much look forward to engage with the shadow spokespeople from the opposition party . I have welcome discuss this matter with the hon . member for Richmond Park and Members of other party who make time to discuss the Bill at drop - in session last week . I look forward to far engagement with all those who attend the Committee of the whole House , especially give the important view that have be express today . I stress again that this Bill be about finally remove an outdated and indefensible principle , and not about individual . as my right hon . friend the Minister for the Cabinet Office mention at the beginning of the debate , the current hereditary peer and their predecessor have make notable contribution to the other place , the merit of which we have hear in this House today . this be the first step in reform and not the last . the other reform set out in our manifesto be more complex and it be right to take the time to properly consider their implementation . I know that the Leader of the House of Lords have outline her commitment to meaningful dialogue with member of the other place on further reform to bring about a small and more active second Chamber . the Government remain committed in the long term to replace the House of Lords with an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the nation and region and of how the public can have politic well serve they . as the manifesto make clear , it be right to start with this immediate reform , complete the work that we begin 25 year ago . I commend this Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . the House divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 453 . [ division no . 19 , 6 . 55 pm ] question accordingly negative . [ division list be not available at the time of publication . ] question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time .