thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak during today ' s important debate . I wish to begin by take the opportunity to thank my constituent for choose change and put their trust in I at the ballot box this summer . this be indeed a " change " election . the last time that a Labour MP for South Dorset stand here and make his maiden speech , I be just six year old . but my labour predecessor — Lord Knight — do not waste any time win my support . as the local MP , Lord Knight relentlessly fight for my community , and he leave behind a legacy of which we can all be proud . his success include rebuild my dilapidated primary school and then rebuild my secondary school as well . Lord Knight be also at the heart of the campaign to win the 2012 summer olympic game bid , with Weymouth and Portland proudly host the sailing event . I consider myself very fortunate to have one of my predecessor work just along the corridor in the other place . this palace of Westminster can be an ancient and mysterious workplace at time , so I will always be grateful for my Lord Knight in shine armour just around the corner . I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Richard Drax . as our MP , his commitment to our armed force community be second to none . the constituency may have change hand , but I fully intend to continue his work champion our armed force . if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would also like to pay tribute to another former Member of this House , Baroness Hodge . many member will , like I , have work alongside Baroness Hodge . work with she be certainly an unforgettable experience . " Relentless " , " feisty " , " ferocious " , " attack dog " — these be just some of the term bandy around the staffroom at Amazon headquarters after only the brief of cross - examination by Baroness Hodge , and with good reason . she exemplify how to be an effective and tenacious change - maker in Parliament . for more than a decade , she have be the scourge of tax - dodger and kleptocrat , white - collar criminal and oligarch alike . it be a pleasure to work alongside she in the battle against dirty money and economic crime . I look forward to continue her important work , both in this place and on the Public Accounts Committee . before I take member on a walk tour of my constituency , I would just like to say thank you to the people who get I here . my parent , my wide family , my friend and my partner have always have my back . they have always support my endeavour , and they have give so much to ensure that every opportunity be make available to I . thank you . there be something deeply personnel about be able to represent your home . it be an honour to be able represent my friend , my family , my neighbour and my former classmate . in the year ahead , I look forward to rigorously stand up for all the community that make up South Dorset . Madam Deputy Speaker , wherever you look across my constituency , a strong sense of community and local pride be unmissable . start our stroll in the east of my constituency , we will find Studland and then Swanage , a small , charming seaside town . the people of Swanage have much to be proud of , include the legacy of one Trevor Chadwick . Trevor be a public - spirited man , a local schoolteacher and a lifeboat volunteer . in 1939 , he join Sir Nicholas Winton to assemble the Prague Kindertransport . despite the clear danger face he , Trevor go to Prague to help rescue 669 child from the Nazi regime , yet , much like Sir Nicholas Winton , Trevor do not seek praise or recognition for his heroism , and for many year his work go unmarked . there now stand a statue in Swanage mark his proud legacy . walk past it just the other day , I be remind of the quiet selflessness and compassion that sit at the heart of all our community . we can all learn from his example . the town of Swanage be also rightly proud of its many independent business , its award - win beach and its essential community hospital . without these institution , the town would be lose , so I look forward to advocate for all three at every opportunity . now , Madam Deputy Speaker , move west on our walk along the coastline of my constituency , you be spoil . whatever other member might claim , I know that my constituency truly be the most impressive , the most spectacular , and the most charming . if you do not believe I , just ask UNESCO . my constituency be the proud home of the Jurassic coast : St Aldhelm ' s Head , Chapman ' s Pool , Bacon Hole , Lulworth Cove , durdle Door and Ringstead bay be all geological gem dot along the coast . Most hon . member have probably already visit this part of my constituency , either on a romantic weekend away , a summer holiday or an ill - fated geography field trip many moon ago . either way , all who visit the Jurassic coast leave with lifelong memory . rural community such as Corfe , Worth Matravers , Langton Matravers , Winfrith and Wool be all proud to call the Jurassic coast our back garden . I will do all I can to defend , preserve and enhance that unique landscape . amble further west , we arrive at the friendly seaside town of Weymouth . Weymouth and nearby Portland be a key departure point for the Dunkirk evacuation and , later , the D - day landing . my home town be a generous home to soldier , sailor and airman during the second world war . in the month prior to D - day , Weymouth host thousand of british and ally force as they prepare for the liberation of Europe . in Weymouth we do not easily forget the importance of those D - day landing , and our town be proud of the role that we play in turn the tide against fascism . in a world that often feel insecure and rive by conflict , our community will always remember the sacrifice make to defend democracy and freedom . Weymouth also remain proud of a local parliamentarian , Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton . in the early 19th century he be a Member of Parliament for Weymouth and a lead member of the abolitionist movement . alongside William Wilberforce , Buxton lead effort to abolish slavery throughout the british empire . wherever I go in Weymouth , there be quiet reminder of that important figure and the role he play in make the world a more civilised place . we be proud of his legacy and I believe we be a kind and more caring community because of it . Weymouth be a fantastic place to call home , but that do not mean our town be without its challenge . grow up there the message I too often hear be that to get on , you have to get out . I reject that outlook altogether . I be proud to call Weymouth home and I will do everything I can to attract the job , investment and opportunity that every young person there deserve . arrive at the westward end of our walk through our constituency , we find the Isle of Portland , but we do not need to visit Portland to appreciate its significance . part of this Palace of Westminster be build use Portland limestone . the Cenotaph and Whitehall be also construct use that stone , as be the United Nations headquarter and much of Buckingham Palace . we be proud that a part of Portland can always be find in the corridor of power , yet Westminster and Whitehall can too often feel remote and far remove from life on the island . I will always stand up for the proud community live in Portland , and I will do what I can to shrink the gap between community and the corridor of power . I have begin by work with the Government to shut down the Bibby Stockholm barge , and I will continue by challenge proposal to build an incinerator and by campaign for improved healthcare and much - need green investment . well , there you have it , Madam Deputy Speaker : a short ramble across South Dorset , all enjoy from the comfort of these green Benches . the countryside and coastline , the town and village that make up my constituency be brim with pride and with strong community . it be an immeasurable honour to represent each and every one of they , and I shall seek to serve they first and foremost in this House .