I be honour to make my maiden address during this debate on carer ' s allowance . we all know people who be work tirelessly to care for love one . indeed , make life well for those who sacrifice so much be one of the main reason I make the decision to run for election to this place . in Weston - super - Mare , it have be a privilege to get to know some of our resident who care tirelessly for love one in the most challenging circumstance . I pay tribute to carer in my constituency and specifically to Pat O ' Connell , Jan Quan and everybody at the Parkinson ' s UK Weston - super - mare branch for be so fearless in fighting for appropriate care service for their love one . I be in awe of their love , compassion and conviction to secure well care and respite service not just for themselves , but for everyone . it be a real tragedy that the care system be not able to provide they with suitable respite from the 24 / 7 care they provide . I continue to fight their corner and that of all carer across the constituency . Weston - super - Mare be an extraordinary place , full of a vibrant mix of people . since my family move to the village of Kewstoke in 2001 , Weston and the surround area have become deeply intertwine with our life . I may still have my Stokie accent and a love of pottery and Staffordshire oat cake , but Weston be now where my heart be . it be a town where we find people with root from across our nation and from across the world . my young sister Emily and Lauren have become expert code - switcher between Stokie and west country base on the situation , but my young brother Scott have embrace the local lingo and I can almost hear he now say , " alright , my lover ? " Weston have provide we all with a friendly community , a beautiful coastline and the good british seaside experience in the country — that be a fact . it be hard not to feel immense pride be there , and even though I will not play favourite with our local chip shop and ice cream stop , I can assure hon . member that there be many excellent choice in the town . this year we celebrate the 160th birthday of Birnbeck pier — Weston ' s old — which have be close for nearly 30 year . its restoration have be a labour of love for many people who have work tirelessly to preserve this piece of our history , and I be overjoyed to be the MP who will hopefully see it bring back to life for our community and for commercial use . Weston be make up of diverse community , from the town itself , which host its first mela this summer to celebrate our diversity , to area such as Worle and village such as Bleadon , Uphill and Hutton . those neighbourhood have grow significantly over the year , with post - war estate such as Bournville , Coronation , Potteries and Oldmixon foster some of the most creative , friendly and resilient people and host event from community Pride to some of the most fantastic creative art event I have ever attend . I come from a community just like those . under the last Labour Government , I be the first in my family to pursue a - level and go to university . it be because of those life - change opportunity that I be here today . a constituent say to I recently , " politic doesn ' t make any difference , " but I could not disagree more . yes , we have see challenge , but for many of we , especially in my generation , the decision of a Labour Government give we the chance to succeed in way we never think possible . I be determined to build on that legacy and ensure we continue to empower future generation . recently , Weston have evolve into a haven for food and beverage enterprise , offer everything from traditional british seaside fare to incredible vegan option thank to local champion such as Anna Southwell , who have transform perception of vegan cuisine — include my own — and show how to build and sustain inclusive community through food , drink and entertainment . business such as Kinda Co . , know for its dairy - free cheese , have choose Weston as their home , thrive there because of the opportunity we create for growth and sustainability , and while it be now just outside my constituency , the iconic Thatchers Cider will always be associate with our town . even though our high street , like many across the country , have struggle over the year , traditional store such as the phenomenal family - run Walker and Ling , open in 1904 and trade in the same place since , have keep the faith and be part of the fabric of this great town . I sincerely hope it will be there for many more year to come as we work together to revitalise the high street . Weston be also home to some amazing tech start - up , and as the world become more interconnected , with high - skill , high - wage job tie less to city , place such as Weston be start to see investment . More people have cotton on to what a great place it be , and I can totally understand why . I thank my predecessor John Penrose for his service in this place over 19 year . I particularly pay tribute to he for his work on the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 and as the anti - corruption champion in the May and Johnson Ministries . before he come the late Lord Cotter , who be a visionary for our town , advocate for digital transformation and regional economic development . he be also a patron of a homeless and rough sleeping charity in Weston , somewhere to go , which he care for deeply . I be honour to continue in his footstep as a trustee . I look forward to play an active role in the Government ' s ambitious plan to end homelessness , and to ensure that technology be a force for good and that digital inclusion become a reality for all . our youth and , indeed , all those seek to learn and develop deserve the good opportunity . I be inspire constantly by the hope , resilience and community spirit of the child and young people I be fortunate enough to be surround by in Weston . I be committed to ensure that Weston continue to be a place where everyone can thrive , and where community and innovation come together to build a bright future for all . if the child and young people I see in my constituency week in , week out be anything to judge our future by , we be in excellent hand . thank you , Weston - super - Mare , for be my home and for give I the opportunity to serve you . I have spend most of my work life in the NHS , but speak for the first time in the House , I must start with a confession : as some of the northerly member will recognise from my voice , I be not bear in the west country . it be now 35 year since I be post to what be then RAF Chivenor on the beautiful north Devon coast , while serve in the Royal Air Force . at the time , my flight sergeant at RAF Laarbruch in Germany tell I that go to north Devon would probably turn out to be an adventure . I confess to the House that I do not think this place be quite what he , or I , have in mind . first , I want to thank my family , friend , and all my supporter over the year — especially my two - year - old grandson Clayton , who probably win I one or two vote — as without they I would not be here . my constituency be fortunate to be famous for its stunning landscape and area of outstanding natural beauty , with beach , moor , farmland and forest that draw countless visitor every year . farming and tourism sustain many of our rural community , with historic market town such as South Molton , set in roll countryside , give way to stunning seaside destination such as Woolacombe , Instow and Braunton . Chivenor , where I be so lucky to be post all those year ago , be now home to the Royal Marines Commando Logistic Regiment , and my area have a proud military history . now - famous surfing beach , such as Woolacombe and Saunton sand , be once use as training ground to prepare ally force for the Normandy landing . behind the natural beauty , the challenge that my area face be stark . like many rural and coastal constituency , it suffer from low wage , which be nearly £ 100 a week less than the national average , and an acute housing shortage that price young people out of our community or prevent they from start a family in North Devon , as I do . even in the 2020 , part of my constituency still face real deprivation . in some part of Ilfracombe , for example , the proportion of young people attain level 4 qualification be barely above 25 % , while life expectancy be 10 year low than other part of Devon . out of uniform , I join the NHS , start out as a mental health nurse at North Devon district hospital — the most remote acute hospital in mainland England — visit patient across unique community , such as Combe Martin and Lynton , and eventually lead the campaign to build a chemotherapy and day treatment unit . my area suffer from shortfall in important medical service such as pharmacy , nursing and , in particular , dentistry . our hospital now have intensive care unit and operating theatre that be approach 50 year old and be desperately in need of investment from the new hospital programme . however , I have be astonish by the possibility on offer in my constituency . numerous coastal seat across the south - west , mine include , stand to benefit massively from investment in float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . clean energy , an extended supply chain and high - pay job could be a shot in the arm for the economy of the great south - west . I pay tribute to my predecessor Selaine Saxby , who identify how that massive opportunity could , if do right , benefit the region for decade to come . North Devon district hospital will soon be home to a £ 1 . 4 million clinical research centre that will lead groundbreake study into heart condition , joint problem and osteoarthritis . few people know that Barnstaple , where I live , be also home to Accord Healthcare , a pharmaceutical group that manufacture a staggering 10 % of all the medication use in the NHS and be a vital part of this country ' s critical supply chain . it have just announce a new , groundbreaking , orally administer medication for prostate cancer . that be hot off the press this week and may benefit as many as 40 , 000 cancer sufferer , and it be among the first medication of its kind . another remarkable firm , Systems Engineering and Assessment , or SEA , have just win a £ 135 million contract to supply cutting - edge defensive countermeasure system to the Royal Navy . thank to its hard work and some innovative engineering on an industrial estate in my constituency , young people will be keep safe as they serve their country in uniform . my constituency be one of hide opportunity around every corner . we must seize they . it be an immense privilege for I to be North Devon ' s voice in this place , and I intend to do it justice . I congratulate my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for North Devon ( Ian Roome ) on his maiden speech . I start by thank my long - suffer family , especially my child Zoe , Sam and Emily , who have be truly supportive throughout everything to get I to this place . let I express my thank to the amazing team in the constituency who work so hard to get I here as well . it be an honour to have be elect to represent my constituency of Newton Abbot , an area that I have call home for some 25 year . I tend to find that people in Westminster either ask , " where be Newton Abbot ? " or they say that they know it well through personal experience . we be on the south coast of Devon between Exeter and Torbay , between the sea and the gateway to Dartmoor with the Rivers Teign and Exe . the constituency name reflect our large market town , but it could add Dawlish , Teignmouth , Kingsteignton , let alone the many village from Starcross , Kenton , Bishopsteignton , Abbotskerswell , Ogwell , Denbury , Ipplepen , Broadhempston and many more . I have be wonder what to tell hon . member about my constituency . perhaps the creative and innovative people , include Newton Abbot ' s own Ollie Watkins , the member of Muse , or Peter Cross , usually see at England rugby fixture with his resplendent cross of St George hat and coat . or the history of Brunel ' s engineering of the coastal railway , today ' s mining of ball clay or , previously , the granite use to rebuild London bridge , the British Museum and other , quarry from Dartmoor and transport via the Templer Way — a tramway itself create from granite — all ship via the port of Teignmouth . or the story of dawlish violet , Jane Austen ' s visit , Keats ' poem or how Dawlish become the home of black swan . perhaps the protect shore of the Exe estuary and dawlish Warren , home to many thousand of wildfowl and wade bird each winter . suffice it to say , the area be steep in history , fame and natural beauty . member will find much more than Devon cream tea and scone — with cream and jam the right way up , of course . grow up in a Royal Navy family , we move around an awful lot . move to Dawlish be a natural choice , but I suspect it be also my parent ' s influence that cause I to set my sight on this place . in the 1950 , they meet in Downing Street when my mother work in Churchill ' s office . my father tell we story of race to the parking place outside no . 10 in his old MG . speak of previous politician , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Anne Marie Morris , and her dedication to the constituency . her maiden speech tell of the wave gently break over the train on the dawlish seawall . the 2014 storm , however , show we that the force of the sea and the increase storm due to climate change be both serious and urgent . since then , Network Rail have construct a new seawall , rebuild the station and more . however , it be the catastrophic cliff collapse near Teignmouth that cause the long interruption of rail service , cut London off from the south - west peninsular . we be still wait for fund to be confirm for that work . climate change be a real and present threat to we on the coast , and we can not stop it with just flood defence and mitigation . we must do everything we can to reduce the use of fossil fuel and carbon dioxide emission . turn to healthcare , Devon have both an age population and few hospital bed per head of population than the national average . local hospital be fall into disrepair and be often overlook in the model of care . it be during my first week in this place that I hear from the local NHS trust that it be cancel the plan new Teignmouth health and wellbeing centre that would have replace the crumble hospital . due to increase cost and a recent cap place on its capital budget , bizarrely because of revenue overspend , the project be cancel . the new centre be to have become the home to local GPs and local NHS service . I do write to my pen pal , the Secretary of State , but have yet to hear back . in the meantime , I be work with the GPs to help they secure a new home and avoid put primary care for 18 , 000 patient in jeopardy . teignmouth hospital be still under the threat of closure , despite housing many NHS and voluntary sector service . meeting recently with Volunteering in Health at the hospital with my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , we see how its model of wraparound care have be copy internationally and that Singapore be now roll it out as global good practice . as an engineer and a Liberal , I know that we do not need to accept broken system . we can fix they , and by empower people we can build a bright and well future . I will do everything I can in this place to fix system and help my constituent , and help to protect the beautiful constituency , the environment and its biodiversity as long as I be here .