Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Net Zero : evidence - base Policy what step he be take to ensure scientific evidence be use to support his net zero policy . this Government ' s approach be found on the bedrock of the well scientific evidence , which , accord to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , say that net zero by 2050 be essential to limit global warming to 1 . 5 ° . that be why we support Baroness May ' s decision to put net zero by 2050 into law ; that be base on advice from the Climate Change Committee . that decision be right for the climate , for energy security , and for the job and growth that it can bring to our country . this government ' s mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower be not only deliver against climate target , but deliver job and investment in place like Durham and the wide north - east , where around 500 renewable energy company already employ around 17 , 000 people in good - quality job — a figure that be set to rise to 24 , 000 . those who take a stand against climate action would put that growth at risk . do the Secretary of State share my concern that the fearmongering by some in this House about the cost and safety of renewable be not only misguided , but fundamentally against our national interest , and will he work with local team to provide suitable knowledge and education , as suggest by Retrofit Reimagined ? order . I think the Secretary of State have get it . my hon . friend be absolutely right . unfortunately , the Climate Change Act 2008 be now an issue that divide this House . I think Rain Newton - Smith , the director general of the CBI , put it very well recently when she say , " the Climate Act have be the bedrock for investment flow into the UK . " rip up the framework that have give investor confidence that the UK be serious about sustainable growth through a low - carbon future would damage our economy . seek to abolish the Climate Change Act be not just a betrayal of young people — it be anti - job and anti - investment . may I gently remind the Energy Secretary that it be his job to answer question from mps on behalf of their constituent ? I will ask the same question that I ask he last time : if the UK become net zero tomorrow , by how much would it reduce the Earth ' s temperature ? I will give the hon . Gentleman the answer I give he last time . action by the UK make a difference here . of course , we be 1 % of global emission , but our action mean that other country act . where be the evidence for that ? well , it actually happen . when the Climate Change Act pass , 60 other country pass their own version of it . net zero be sign into law in this country , and now 80 % of global GDP be cover by net zero . that be the difference the UK make . I believe in Britain ; the hon . Gentleman do not . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . Lord Stern remind we just today that " investment in climate action be the … growth story of the 21st century , " while expect growth from fossil fuel be " futile because the damage it cause end in self - destruction . " the Office for Budget Responsibility confirm the same thing in the summer , refer to the huge cost of not take climate action . be it not the truth that the energy transition be essential , not only to address climate action , but to exactly how we deliver economic success ? the Chair of the Select Committee speak very wisely on this matter . the net zero economy grow three time fast than the economy as a whole last year . this be the growth opportunity of the 21st century . now , we could let China or India take that opportunity , but I say that we need that opportunity for Britain . the Climate Change Act force Ministers to meet rigid , legally bind emission target , regardless of the economic consequence . do the Secretary of State accept that this law have directly contribute to high energy bill , the loss of british industry and decline competitiveness , and that the only sensible course of action be to repeal it ? no , and british business roundly condemn the Conservatives when they come out with that argument . the hon . Gentleman should have a word with the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , sit on the Front Bench , who say just in March last year — life come at you fast , Mr Speaker — that Britain be the " poster child " for net zero . she be laud everything associate with that , and now she want to abolish the Act that make it possible . Energy Infrastructure Applications : Land Use Changes what plan he have to assess land use change in application for new energy infrastructure . we be deliver a strategic spatial energy plan to support a more actively plan approach to energy infrastructure . it will consider wide demand , include food production , water supply and nature recovery . the Departments for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and for Energy Security and Net Zero will ensure that the strategic spatial energy plan and the land use framework work together . resident in my constituency be concerned about a propose site for a battery energy storage system on agricultural land in the green belt . with tale of similar storage system catch fire , there be understandable fear in the community . would the Minister meet I to discuss make local fire service statutory consultee for certain type of battery storage planning application , and to hear my resident ' concern , and will he reassure they that they will not be guinea pig for new or untested technology ? the hon . Lady be right to say that public confidence in the safety of all infrastructure be incredibly important . battery technology be no more unsafe than any other technology , but if there be a public perception that it be , then it be right that we take action to deal with that . that be why I be host a roundtable to look at what more we can do around safety , and it be why the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be do work on some of the regulation in this space . this be regulate closely by the Health and Safety Executive , but I be happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss what more we can do . I thank the Minister for that answer . in my constituency , several planning application be pende , and one have already be grant in the village of Wilsden and Cullingworth for battery storage and onshore wind in the wide area . can the Minister explain how constituent with clean energy infrastructure in their area can benefit from both cheap bill and community funding ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that building renewable infrastructure be how we will bring down bill for everyone in the long term . it be incredibly important that we can store cheap electricity , include through battery storage , so that we can deploy it in the system far more regularly than we be currently deploy gas , which be what be drive up people ' s bill . we also want the community that host the infrastructure to benefit directly from it . they will benefit from cheap bill , as well as from direct community benefit . we have be consult over the past few month on whether those should be make mandatory , and whether we should raise the expectation on developer . Fuel Poverty : Greater Manchester what step his Department be take to tackle fuel poverty in Greater Manchester . ensure that everyone have access to a safe and warm home be our priority . from this winter , we estimate that an extra 280 , 000 family in the north - west will receive £ 150 off their energy bill , thank to decision take by this Government . through our warm home plan , we will bring down bill for family right across the country . accord to National Energy Action , adult in the north be more likely to ration their energy this winter , and in my constituency almost 8 , 000 people be in fuel poverty and at risk of poor living condition , illness and suffering . a balance must be strike to deliver both clean heating and a people - first approach . after serious delay , will the Minister finally bring forward a warm home plan , and explain how it will achieve that balance and ensure that low - income household in Cheadle be guarantee clean , affordable heating for the winter to come ? we will bring forward the warm home plan this year . in March , we allocate around £ 1 . 8 billion to local authority and social housing provider through the warm home local grant . the hon . Member may want to direct his constituent to the Greater Manchester combine authority , which receive a settlement of £ 134 . 9 million of devolved capital funding for building retrofit . they can access that through the retrofit portal , which have an eligibility checker , so that household can check whether they qualify for free or discount home upgrade . Warm Home discount : Fuel Poverty what assessment he have make of the potential impact of extend the warm home discount on level of fuel poverty . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of extend the warm home discount on level of fuel poverty . from this winter , an additional 2 . 7 million household across the UK will receive £ 150 off their energy bill , which make a total of nearly 6 million low - income household receive this vital support . that be the difference that this Government be make to our community . I be delighted that thank to this Government and the warm home discount eligibility extension , thousand more rochdale family will be eligible for £ 150 off their bill this winter . it will ensure that young and old alike get more help with their bill this winter . I would like to raise the case of my constituent Keith Gumbridge , who have his cavity wall insulation botch under the previous Government , and who be leave with huge legal bill after so - call " no win , no fee " law firm Pure Legal go bust . Mr Gumbridge ' s case have be with the Legal Ombudsman for nearly three year ; do the Minister agree that that be far too long to wait for justice ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for all his work championing cause for his constituent . he will know that an extra 280 , 000 household in the north - west will be eligible for the warm home discount , and that 2 . 7 million household across the country will be help this year . I would be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the case of Mr Gumbridge . ensure confidence in the insulation system will be crucial to roll out the warm home plan . I congratulate the Minister on be free from the Government Whips Office and welcome he to his position on the Front Bench . I commend the Government on extend the warm home discount to a further 2 . 7 million low - income household , but there be much more to do . with that in mind , will the Minister find time to meet I , so that we can discuss how we can keep people in Newcastle - under - Lyme alive , safe and warm in the colder month ahead ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment on my liberation from the Government Whips Office . I know that he be a champion for his constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme , and I be always happy to meet to discuss these important issue . he will know , as I do , that with wholesale gas cost 77 % high than before the russian invasion of Ukraine , we must get people off the rollercoaster of fossil fuel price and on to clean home - grow power . nearly 3 million household in the UK live in fuel poverty . at the same time , a recent report from the Common Wealth think - tank tell we that energy company profit average about a quarter of everybody ' s bill . in the last few year , £ 70 billion have be pay to shareholder , instead of be reinveste or use to help tackle fuel poverty . will the Minister commit to tackle those energy company profit by tax they fairly and reinveste the money in the urgent work that be need — for example , through the warm home plan — to tackle the scourge of fuel poverty in our country ? the cost of energy have to come down , and one of my job as Minister for energy consumer be drive down the cost of bill , but we must also remember that the Government introduce a windfall tax on the oil and gas company , and we have the price cap on energy , which cap the profit of energy company . we will continue to take that action . despite the oil price be at a six - month low this week , energy price remain stubbornly high . give the onset of winter , what further step will the Minister and his Department take by way of a warm home scheme ? we be take action through the warm home discount , which be be provide to an extra 2 . 7 million household across the country , and the warm home plan , which we will roll out before the end of the year . energy price : economic Growth what assessment he have make of the potential impact of trend in the level of energy price on economic growth . high and volatile energy price be bad for growth , take money out of consumer ’ pocket and make our business less competitive . through our mission to achieve clean power by 2030 , we be take the country off the rollercoaster of global fossil fuel price and have set a route to home - grow cheap and greener energy . the Minister and I come from one of the most energy - rich part of Europe , yet its consumer have among the high energy bill in Europe . that drive up fuel poverty and hit the cost of living crisis . he will be aware of that . Labour promise to bring down bill by £ 300 ; they will have go up by about the same amount . do the Minister understand why people be so frustrated with the Government ? like the hon . member , I understand people ' s frustration when they look at their energy bill each month . [ interruption . ] that promise stand . that be why we be take concert action through the warm home discount , which be provide 2 . 7 million household with support this winter , and the warm home plan , which we will roll out this year . economic growth be a key driver for all our constituent . what be the Government ' s estimate of the number of job that will be create in the UK by 2030 ? be it true to say that it will be triple the number in the old economy ? hundred of thousand of job will come from the clean power revolution . that be why it be so important that we push ahead with it and do not adopt the tactic of the Conservative party , or their friend on the Back Benches . we need to push ahead with clean power in order to unlock those hundred of thousand of job across the country . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the new Ministers to the Front Bench . on the first day of recess , away from scrutiny , the Labour party publish the price for its allocation round 7 of the renewable auction . labour use to say that renewable be nine time cheap , but the price that the Secretary of State have say he be willing to pay be 40 % high than the current cost of electricity — they be the high price in a decade — and he have extend the contract length to 20 year . those be not just the price that we will be pay ; they be the price that our child will be pay . will the Minister explain how lock we into high price for long will cut bill by £ 300 ? the right hon . Lady ' s comparison be absolute nonsense , and she know it . she compare the cost of build and operate new renewable , which be what the contract for difference relate to , with the cost of operate — not build — gas plant . once we make a fair comparison , the truth be that renewable be cheap to build . we will take no lesson on energy policy from the conservative party , which abandon its commitment to clean energy at its party conference . great British Energy : public Sector renewable Energy Use what step great British Energy be take to help public service use more renewable energy . what step great British Energy be take to help public service use more renewable energy . what step great British Energy be take to help public service use more renewable energy . early this month , great British Energy jointly fund 46 new community energy project in Scotland , include an island solar farm , a community ice rink and a small community wind farm . great British Energy be also help public service in England with their energy bill through its solar for all programme , which benefit school and hospital . in this way , GBE be transfer money from the pocket of energy company to local community and frontline service . many leisure centre , such as the Tryst in Cumbernauld , which be build and open in 1973 , be desperate to decarbonise , but face huge cost and the practical challenge of retrofit renewable technology into old building . will my right hon . friend set out how great British Energy will support vital community facility of that kind in make the switch to clean energy , and in reduce their bill ? my hon . friend speak very well about these issue . GB Energy be already take advantage of the huge potential of clean energy , and hundred of school , hospital and NHS site across the country be already benefit . the statement of strategic priority make it clear that GBE will work collaboratively and in partnership with scottish public body and the Scottish Government to increase investment in the local community energy sector in Scotland . organisation such as my hon . friend ' s leisure centre sound like ideal candidate . thank to great British Energy and this Government , Queen ' s hospital in Burton will get solar panel , which will save the trust money that can be plough directly into the frontline and be spend on patient . do the Secretary of State agree that there be significant opportunity to expand that programme to other public building , and be he explore that with his Department ? my hon . friend be right , and I hope that the massive expansion to school and hospital that we have already ensure in 15 month be welcome across the House . they do not need GBE to do it . the hon . Gentleman say that we do not need GB Energy to do that , but the Conservatives never do it — not in 14 year . it be precisely through a publicly own energy company that we be do this , to the benefit of citizen across our country . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) that there be huge opportunity here , and we intend to expand the plan . I for one welcome the announcement that the publicly own great British Energy will roll out solar panel to more school and hospital in the come year . what benefit will that bring to our community , and what can place such as Luton South and South Bedfordshire do to take advantage of the clean power transition ? this be really important . public institution face significantly high energy bill because of the legacy of the last Government . GBE , with its programme , be cut those bill . that be a transfer of resource from energy bill to frontline public service . the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) be chuntere from the Front Bench . he should visit some of the teacher and NHS staff who think that this be a brilliant programme . my constituency of Esher and Walton be home to the UK ' s large float installation of solar panel ; there be 23 , 000 on the Queen Elizabeth II reservoir , help to support public service by power a Thames Water treatment plant . it be a fantastically innovative renewable project , but very few of my constituent know about it . how will the Government use Great British Energy to argue more effectively for the benefit of renewable for community and public service across the UK ? the Energy Minister say that he go on a profile - raise visit to the programme two week ago , so many more people now know about it , thank to that . indeed , even more — thousand , million — will know about it as a result of watch this question time . the hon . Lady make an important point about how GB energy can roll this out across the country , and float solar have real potential as well . over a year ago , the UK Government promise that there would be hundred of job for GB Energy in Aberdeen . a year on , the oil and gas industry in Aberdeen be haemorrhage thousand of job and we be barely into double figure for GB Energy job . when will that promise be keep ? I have to say that I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman about the work that GB Energy be do . when I talk to industry representative , they say that GB Energy now play a crucial role . there be investment come into the supply chain — a supply chain fund of £ 1 billion , thank to the spending review , which the Conservatives would abolish because they do not seem to want job in Britain . there be £ 1 billion in the supply chain and GB Energy be roll out community energy project in school and hospital in England , as well as the one in Scotland that I have talk about . GB Energy be partner with the private sector . this be all part of the clean energy workforce plan , which we will publish soon , for 400 , 000 extra job as a result of our clean energy mission . by prioritise partnership with school , we will help to protect their budget . I draw the Secretary of State ' s attention to school in Maidenhead , and specifically Furze Platt senior school — where I happen to be a governor — which recently partner with MaidEnergy to install solar panel on the school ' s building , thereby do right by its budget and by the environment , and set a great example for the student teach there . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on be a school governor and on the work the school be do . we can talk about the tangible benefit , but the wide point be that young people want we to act on these issue , and that be part of have an education system that teach they about the benefit of move towards clean energy . when I go into school , there be massive enthusiasm for that kind of initiative . net Zero : impact on Manufacturing what assessment he have make of the potential impact of his Department ' s net zero policy on the manufacturing industry . I be delighted that my first outing at the Dispatch Box be to answer a question from my hon . friend , and on a topic that we have work on so much over the past year . we on the labour side know that net zero be the great economic opportunity of our generation . unlike the previous Conservative Government , which allow industry to wither , we do not accept that decarbonisation mean deindustrialisation . through our modern industrial strategy , we be work with business to help it to invest , grow and meet our climate ambition . I congratulate the Minister on his well - deserve elevation to the Front Bench . he have work quite hard with the ceramic sector on this issue . energy - intensive industry , such as ceramic , be at the mercy of an international gas market over which very few country have direct control , but one of the thing that could help be look at electricity cost . may I therefore encourage the Minister , in his new role , to consider expand eligibility for the supercharger scheme so that energy - intensive industry , such as ceramic , can benefit from the support available until the supercharger scheme come online in 2027 ? my hon . friend raise an important point about the scope of the supercharger , which we be go to look at in 2026 . he will be aware that some part of the ceramics supply chain can access the supercharger , but I too be concerned about the impact of high energy cost on the ceramics sector . I will meet the head of Ceramics UK this month , I be chair a meeting of the Energy Intensive Users Group , and I look forward to further engagement with the sector in the new year . I welcome the Minister to his place . talk about industry , the Lindsey oil refinery in Lincolnshire be in receivership and be currently be sell , but thousand and thousand of job be at risk and the worker there be desperately concerned that the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the official receiver be not run a proper process , frustrating potential bidder for the whole site . will the Minister , in his new job , commit to help ensure that the whole site be sell to a successful bidder ? the hon . Member say that thousand and thousand of job be at risk in this country ; they be at risk from the climate - deny policy of Reform . the Institution of Chemical Engineers report last week that there be 800 , 000 job in the green economy in this country — thousand and thousand in the constituency of every single member in this House — and the hon . member ' s party be put that investment at risk . I call the shadow Minister . how many job have to be sacrifice on the altar of this Secretary of State ' s vainglorious eco - zealotry before the Government acknowledge the utter destruction of the UK ' s industrial base that be be wreak by policy drive by an out - of - touch green lobby that have capture what be laughably still call the Department for Energy Security ? it be no wonder that there be so much laughter around the Chamber , because the policy of the previous Conservative Government see industry decline . they be prepared to let industry decline because , fundamentally , they do not believe in industry , and now we find that they do not believe in climate science . we on this side of the House know that we can achieve decarbonisation in this country by win investment from industry — investment that be come in from all around the world . our policy be give industry the confidence to invest in create job here in the UK . on their watch , two oil refinery have close in just one year , with Jim Ratcliffe warn of a million job loss to come . thousand be be lay off in the North sea , as company divest themselves of asset and investment dry up . factory be close and plant be shut down . it be no wonder that the head of Unite the union be call for the Secretary of State to be sack . we know that the Prime Minister try to do that but fail , so , short of that , will they instead consider our plan , which would save industry and job : scrap the Climate Change Act 2008 , scrap the levy , scrap the windfall tax and put cheap energy first ? I would like to thank the Minister for remind the House of the litany of error that we have to pick up when we come into office . my portfolio be fill with company that have struggle so much over the past 10 year , but those company now find that they have a partner in Government who will work with they to attract the investment to build job in the UK . if the opposition do not like those job , they can continue as they be . Grid Infrastructure what step he be take to improve grid infrastructure . we be build a resilient grid for the future after decade of under - investment . we be halve the development time for new transmission infrastructure , include through reform to planning regulation and supply chain , and deliver the grid capacity need to deliver clean power by 2030 and the economic growth that this country need . in January , when storm É owyn hit the UK , hundred of thousand of people across Scotland be without power for several day . that include thousand of my constituent , in rural village such as Oakley and Blairhall , and a number be reliant on power for critical medical equipment . engineer perform heroic work to restore power as quickly as possible , but that be delay by outdated grid infrastructure . as the new winter storm season have already begin this year , what step be the Minister and the Department take to ensure the future reliance of the grid to withstand worsen storm ? how can that be do to protect vulnerable people in my constituency and across the UK ? my hon . Friend ask an incredibly important question . first , I would like to thank all the engineer and customer service staff who work through the recent storm Amy to ensure that people be reconnecte as quickly as possible , include in some incredibly difficult circumstance — they do a fantastic job . we be try to ensure that the UK ' s grid remain as resilient as possible . that require investment , and those who oppose the building of new infrastructure to improve our grid ' s resilience will need to explain to their constituent why they want they to be much more at risk of disconnection in those storm . secondly , these storm be become more common , because climate change be impact all our life . the answer be to move more quickly towards clean power and to recognise that climate change be a problem , not to bury our head in the sand and fail to deliver the necessary investment . proposal for 90 mile of pylon from Grimsby to Walpole in my constituency would have a major detrimental impact on rural area due to the scale of the infrastructure , the loss of high - quality farmland and the proximity of the infrastructure to home . do the Minister understand — I do not think he do — why local people say no to pylon ? will he get National Grid to look properly at undergrounding or offshore , to reduce the impact on these community and ensure that if the proposal do go ahead , community be properly compensate ? I could not have organise that well if I have try : immediately after I say , " if you be against grid infrastructure , you be against economic growth " , up pop the hon . gentleman to make exactly that point . his party be against build the future of this country , and we be not go to follow that path at all . decade of under - investment have lead to the issue we face today . they hold back economic growth across the country . this infrastructure have to be build somewhere . we be determined that community benefit from that by introduce what the previous Government fail to do : community benefit for the community who be host the infrastructure . I call the shadow Minister . on grid infrastructure , the chinese wind turbine manufacturer Ming Yang have say that it be look to set up a wind turbine factory in Scotland . our security service have warn we about the risk of chinese state - sponsor hacker try to infiltrate and destroy energy system in the west , and hide kill switch have be find in chinese solar installation technology in the United States . can the Minister provide the House with a very clear assurance that neither Ming Yang nor the chinese state will be able to remotely control our energy infrastructure — yes or no ? first , I will take no lesson from the party that bring chinese investor right into build our nuclear power station . this government be deliver a nuclear power station with british Government funding , not chinese funding , so I will take no lesson from the Conservatives on that . many company want to come and invest in the UK , and we absolutely welcome investment into this country , but every single decision and investment obviously have to pass stringent national security test . I will not engage right now in what those test will be , but we will say very clearly that no decision we make will ever compromise our national security . Carbon Budget Delivery Plan what step he be take to ensure the forthcoming carbon budget delivery plan include measure to financially support people on low and middle income . welcome , Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . I thank the hon . Lady for her continued advocacy on this agenda . I have enjoy work with she from the Back Benches and hope to continue to do so in this new post . I be excited to share with she and the whole House the carbon budget growth and delivery plan later this month . what I can say now be that ensure that low and middle - income family can benefit from the energy transition be absolutely central to our mission . it be why we be roll out the big home upgrade scheme in a generation and why we be move away from expensive fossil fuel towards cheap , clean british power in home and community across our country . I welcome the Minister to her new position and thank she for her answer . I know how much she will want the new carbon budget delivery plan to reflect the scale of ambition require while ensure that the poor be not ask to pay the price , and also to signal that it be an absolute priority across Government . can she assure we that the new plan will not just be slip out , but will be launch properly and , crucially , with the Prime Minister ? it be slightly above my pay grade to determine the Prime Minister ' s diary , but I can assure the hon . Lady that we will proudly launch the carbon budget growth and delivery plan later this month . tackle Climate Change : International Co - operation what step he be take to increase co - operation with other country to tackle climate change . what discussion he have have with his international counterpart on tackle climate change . in the good tradition of the UK , we see it as our duty to work with other country to tackle the climate crisis and protect future generation . it be british leadership that see the Climate Change Act 2008 emulate in 60 country across the world , and it be the leadership of the UK at COP26 that now see 80 % of global GDP cover by net zero . we will maintain that tradition of leadership into COP30 in Brazil and beyond . the Amazon rainforest be the lung of the earth , but it be gasp for breath . I be pleased that COP30 will be in the heart of the Amazon . Ella , a school student from my constituency , would like to know what step the Government will be take to stop deforestation and back nature - base solution . on behalf of Ella , may I urge the Secretary of State to go as far as possible and do all he can ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and Ella for her interest in and enthusiasm for this incredibly important issue . Deforestation be a terrible thing for the planet , but it be also terrible for the people who be affect — the indigenous people who live in the forest . nature - base solution and solution that put indigenous people at the centre make a huge difference . this be a COP in the forest , and I think the brazilian presidency deserve congratulation on that emphasis . it be develop a number of initiative , include the so - call TFFF — the tropical forest forever facility — to finance the prevention of deforestation , and we be work with it on that . young people in my constituency of Wolverhampton West be particularly concerned about protect the environment and the future of our planet . I have be contact by student at Wolverhampton girl ' high school and St Edmund ' s Catholic academy , and recently I be proud to attend a climate justice art exhibition prepare by pupil at St Teresa ' s Catholic primary academy . what step be we take to encourage international awareness of the danger of global warming and the need to recycle and limit plastic waste , thereby also reduce marine pollution ? plastic waste be something that my colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs work on . I think my hon . friend ' s wide point be important . there be a global context to this — and sometimes that context might not actually be as it appear — which be that , when we look across the world , we see that country be still act on these issue . why ? because they recognise that it be in their national interest economically and in the long term for future generation . there be no future if people bury their head in the sand and say , " we ' re not go to act . " COP30 begin next month in Brazil . the UK must play a lead role on the world stage to tackle climate change . at home , however , Somerset council be hamper in its attempt to achieve net zero by an escalate financial crisis follow the maladministration of its previous conservative administration . what step will the Minister and Cabinet colleague take to support council in their net zero transition ? part of what we be do be devolve more of the funding around warm home , for example , so that local authority can play a lead role . I congratulate local authority on the interest that they be take in this . the hon . Lady raise the wide picture of COP30 , which be important — this be a crucial moment . the UK have already show leadership in the past 15 month , include by publish our nationally determine contribution at COP29 last year . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his answer . the fact be that we be all in this together . we must understand that third - world country have a role to play , just as the United Kingdom do , but we be the rich country . I be conscious that it may not always be financially possible for third - world country to do the thing that we ask they to , so what assistance can we give they to ensure that when we approach the task of do this together , we actually achieve it together ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s question . part of the answer here be that the economic have change , so get private finance into develop country can make a massive difference . the " Baku to Bel é m road map " be be produce as part of the COP process — it be a $ 1 . 3 trillion road map — and most of that be about private finance . we can see across the world the effect of private finance in develop country . in Pakistan , for example , solar have go from play almost no part in its electricity system to be the top part of that system in only three or four year , because it be in Pakistan ' s economic interest . that be what we be see across the world . we need the private and public sector to play their role . emission reduction : Progress report what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the Climate Change Committee ' s 2025 report entitle " progress in reduce emission " . I thank my hon . friend for repeatedly raise these issue in the House — I know that climate change be of huge concern to she and her constituent . I be proud that Britain have lead the way with our independent Committee on Climate Change , establish under the Climate Change Act 2008 , which have work effectively for nearly two decade , under leadership from Labour and the Conservatives — I sincerely hope that we can re - establish that consensus . we be grateful to the Committee for its scientific recommendation to the Department . obviously , it be for the Department now to consider they , and we will report back on our decision at the end of the month . I welcome the Minister to her place — it be good to see she among the line of man on the Treasury Bench . I have just finish chair a meeting of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . one issue that we discuss be decent home standard . emission from home be another key area that we need to bear down on , give the Government ' s priority of improve minimum energy performance certificate standard by 2030 . I appreciate that the Minister have be in post for only a few week , but what discussion have she have with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that the private rented sector database will contain information on EPC rating , so that all our resident can live in warm , secure and safe home ? home and home standard be absolutely key to decarbonisation for a variety of reason , include the health benefit for resident . we will consult on the warm home plan , and the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) , speak about the warm home discount early . we be work with MHCLG on bring forward the future home standard . a major gap in our ability to make progress in reduce emission be the disconnect — both literally and figuratively — between small renewable energy scheme and the community in which they be situate . I think in particular of the Coniston hydro scheme , which face resilience and sustainability issue relate to the removal of rock . be the answer to this not the creation of local energy market to reduce the gap between service user and energy producer ? will the Government back the urgent delivery of p441 to make local energy market a reality , save Coniston hydro scheme and service the local community ? in this role , there be a lot of acronym . I have to say that I do not know P441 until I sit on this Bench , but I understand from my colleague that we be look into that . we support local community project , and we will be look at that project and will come back to the hon . member on P441 . brewery : Carbon Emissions what step his Department be take to support brewery to reduce carbon emission . we want to make sure that business benefit from our clean energy mission , especially those in vital industry such as brewing . our forthcoming carbon budget and growth delivery plan and our refreshed industrial decarbonisation strategy will help to provide further clarity for such business , include on how we intend to support they to electrify . one of the many brand of Woking - base Asahi be Cornish Orchards , which have recently decarbonise and cut its emission by 94 % by invest in renewable energy . do the Minister agree that that be exactly the sort of innovation we need ? what further step will his Department take to ensure that the brewing industry can decarbonise and use renewable electricity a lot more than it do currently ? I commend Asahi , which I know be an important employer in the hon . member ' s constituency , for its work on decarbonisation and also for be my favourite japanese beer . in a previous life , I work as a fitter ' s mate in a brewery , and I know how difficult it be to decarbonise the process there . maybe it be something I should learn more about , and I would be very happy to come along to Asahi if I be invite . Onshore Wind Turbines what step he be take to support green energy company to build onshore wind turbine . the Government have publish an onshore wind strategy to remove barrier to help company build more onshore wind , with action across several area include planning , aviation , workforce and route to market . the UK be commit to grow our wind energy manufacturing capacity , but this require investment in innovation to develop the next generation of product that could be make in the UK , use expertise that exist in place like my constituency of Isle of Wight West . can the Minister assure I that the Government be do everything possible to provide the funding to not only create job but provide sovereign ownership of blade technology and development in the UK , so that we become a true energy superpower ? my hon . friend be right to recognise the importance of the industry in his constituency . Vestas be a key part of the UK ' s wind supply chain . the Isle of Wight be already a successful centre for wind blade manufacturing and research and development . I can assure he that we be do everything we can to work with partner and right across Government on the proposal , and that include the agreement in principle between Vestas and the Government to support the factory ' s repurpose to make onshore wind blade , save 300 job . energy company of any kind , whether oil and gas or renewable , need certainty to plan to invest , whether it be onshore or offshore . the Government ' s consultation on the North sea ' s energy future close on 30 April , almost six month ago , and the industry be still await an outcome . the only guidance on timing on the Government ' s website be to " visit this page again soon to download the outcome to this public feedback . " the ongoing delay be cause huge uncertainty for sector of all type of energy investment . can the Minister confirm when the outcome of the consultation will be publish with a date or a week , not a vague timescale ? on the substance of the hon . member ' s question , we launch the future of energy in the North sea consultation with a detailed set of question , which we be analyse at the moment . we will publish the response to that as soon as possible , but I be sure she will understand that we want to make sure we have it absolutely right . I have engage with industry to tell it about the timeframe for that throughout the process . let I just say one thing . the hon . member talk about uncertainty . what could be more uncertain than the Leader of the Opposition come to Aberdeen and talk down the investment in offshore wind , hydrogen and carbon capture — the very thing that will retain the supply chain in the north - east of Scotland ? uncertainty be what the conservative party bring to this . reduce Energy Bills what step he be take to reduce energy bill . what step he be take to reduce energy bill . what step he be take to reduce energy bill . the Government believe that our mission to deliver clean power by 2030 be the good way to break our dependence on global fossil fuel market and protect bill payer permanently . we recognise that we need to support household struggle with bill while we transition to clean power . that be why we be expand the warm home discount to around an additional 2 . 7 million household . I recently visit St Bartholomew ' s church in Hyde , which have serve the resident of Winchester for over 915 year , as part of its give to go Green day , which raise £ 2 , 400 to support its effort to decarbonise the church and reduce energy bill . will the Minister join I in congratulate the congregation and the community volunteer for the leadership they be show in this area , and will he outline what step the Government be take to support faith and community group in decarbonise historic building while preserve their heritage ? I join the hon . Gentleman in praise the whole congregation and community at St Bartholomew ' s in Winchester for support those effort . such effort by community and faith group across the country show the support that exist for take the right action , not just on clean power but on insulation . the warm home plan and other plan that the Department will publish before the end of the year will address some of the issue he talk about in respect of historic building . Carol from Harpenden be one of many constituent who be worried about energy cost . at 70 , she stress that she never imagine that she would have to scrimp and save in the way that she do just to get by . the warm home discount be a temporary lifeline , so will the Government commit to long - last solution to end fuel poverty , include an emergency home upgrade programme that will include incentive to install heat pump that cover real cost ? we be currently consult on extend the warm home discount beyond 2026 . I would encourage the hon . Lady to look at that consultation and feed back her view . the warm home plan be the route to some of the action that she have outline and we will be publish it before the end of the year . in my constituency of Frome and East Somerset , approximately 10 % of household use oil central heating , compare with 5 % nationally . give the high volatility of oil price , that place my constituent in a particularly difficult position as we approach the winter month . will the Minister confirm what measure will be take to ensure that home that be reliant on oil heating can be heat more affordably , so that my constituent do not have to suffer unnecessarily ? since I become a Minister four week ago , I have receive a lot of correspondence on this issue and I be look at it closely . we have consult on the issue and , hopefully , we will be publish the result of that consultation before the end of the month . half the battle to reach net zero be use less energy , which be why work to insulate home be so important . Calder Valley be famous for " Happy Valley " and now " Riot Women " , and have occasionally be call wet and windy . with 75 , 000 of our home fall below energy performance certificate band C , that mean many family live in home that leak heat . today ' s National Audit Office report find that in 98 % of home that have insulation instal under the last government , the work be faulty , risk damp and mould . what action will this Government take to ensure that future insulation effort help family , rather than hinder they ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern about the finding in today ' s National Audit Office report . obviously , we inherit this situation from the previous Government and we be clean up their mess . it be important that we have robust protection in place for consumer so that they have confidence when instal these measure . the warm home plan will address that , include through the consumer protection that we will outline as part of it . the CBI say that one of the good route to bring down bill and deliver growth be invest in clean power job , include the 8 , 800 such job that we currently have in Tees Valley — a number that be scale up every year . do the Secretary of State agree that invest in these industry be one of the good way to redevelop our region and to deliver job and growth year into the future ? I agree with my hon . friend . hundred of thousand of job will come as a result of our sprint to clean power by 2030 , not just in his constituency but across the entire country . what will not take we to those hundred of thousand of job be the conservative party abandon its commitment to the Climate Change Act 2008 . from hug a husky to burn the Climate Change Act — that be not the transition that we expect . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . I welcome the new Ministers to their place — I look forward to work with they — and I congratulate the Secretary of State and the Minister for Energy on hold on to their post , which we be glad to see . one of the good way to bring down household bill be to help homeowner and small business make their property cheap to warm and to power . the Liberal Democrats have put forward a plan to do that by introduce a windfall tax on the big bank , which have see billion of pound in unexpected profit as a result of the quantitative easing programme by the Bank of England more than a decade ago . do the Secretary of State agree with the Liberal Democrats that we should instead use those excess profit to fund green affordable loan of up to £ 20 , 000 for household and up to £ 50 , 000 for business and community group , and cut people ' s power bill for good ? have be in this job for only four and half week , I be always in the market for good idea , whichever part of the House they come from . the £ 13 . 2 billion warm home plan will do exactly what the hon . Lady want we to do — safely insulate home and get people to take the action we need they to take to achieve clean power 2030 . importantly , the plan will create home , business and property that be warm and affordable , power by sustainable clean energy . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last oral question in July , we have reach a final investment decision for Sizewell C , create 10 , 000 job , and surpass the historic milestone of approve enough clean power for 7 . 5 million home after just 15 month of this Government . from next month , nearly 6 million family will receive £ 150 off their energy bill through the warm home discount . that be what it mean to deliver on our clean power mission . the National Energy System Operator be currently assess whether tidal range technology can help we meet our clean power mission . in Fleetwood , we have a huge opportunity for a tidal range project , which could bring desperately need job and investment . will the Minister meet I to discuss that opportunity and the outcome of the report , to ensure that Blackpool North and Fleetwood feel the benefit of the Government ' s clean power energy mission ? my hon . friend raise the important issue of tidal energy . I be very aware of the assessment that NESO be conduct — obviously , our Department be work with it on that assessment . the Minister for Energy chair the marine energy taskforce , and be happy to meet my hon . friend . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the carbon tax on electricity push up the cost of gas , wind , solar and nuclear in this country . it do not need to be there — the Secretary of State could axe the carbon tax tomorrow to instantly cut bill for every single family in this country . why will he not ? I be afraid that the right hon . Lady ' s question be economically illiterate , and that be put it politely . the EU emission trading scheme and the carbon border adjustment mechanism mean that exporter will pay the carbon price in any case . quite extraordinarily , her policy mean that they would pay it to the EU , not to the UK Government — I do not think that be a very good deal . that be why UK business welcome the link proposal that we make , include UK Steel , the CBI , make UK and the Energy Intensive Users Group . the Secretary of State be try to conflate two emission trading scheme . he do not want to talk about the carbon tax on electricity , because he have increase it by 70 % since the start of the year , push up everybody ' s bill in the process . he be make electricity more expensive at the same time as tax , ban and bribe people into electric car and electric home heating — that be totally backwards . he be the bad enemy of a decarbonisation agenda in this country . our cheap power plan would instantly cut electricity bill by 20 % . the Secretary of State could do so tomorrow ; what be he wait for ? dear , oh dear . I will be honest : I think it be sad what have happen to the right hon . Lady . when she be in government for a time , she be the great eco - champion . at COP26 , she be tell people , " follow Claire ' s lead — be a great eco - champion . " now , she have suddenly discover that she be the anti - net zero warrior . all it do be show how desperate the Conservatives be , and the more desperate they become , the more irrelevant they become . air pollution increase the risk of develop condition include asthma and lung cancer , and have be link to thousand of death . in London , hard work by our mayor Sadiq Khan have see the level of nitrogen dioxide fall to within legal limit for the first time since regulation be introduce . in my constituency , we want to know that the Government be commit to work hard to end that link between air pollution and death , so can the Secretary of State set out what step he be take to deliver that ? my hon . friend make a really important point , and not only about what the mayor have do and the effect it have have on the health of Londoners . there be a wide point here , which be too often overlook , about what the shift to renewable and away from fossil fuel can do to help save life and tackle air pollution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . frighteningly , the Earth have already reach its first climate tipping point link to global warming . we be now see warm water coral reef go into irreversible decline , which be threaten nature and million of people and their livelihood . the climate crisis be a global emergency and need leadership , and when Britain lead , other follow . can the Secretary of State finally confirm that the Prime Minister will attend COP30 and lead from the front ? I will give the answer that be also give by the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Katie White ) , which be that the Prime Minister ' s diary be above my pay grade . we will be play a very active part at COP30 . the wide point that the hon . Lady make about tipping point and the recent report be important . anyone who look at that report will see where the science be take we , and any political party in this House that see that as a reason to then abandon the Climate Change Act 2008 , as the Leader of the Opposition have do , be anti - science and anti - young people . it be a betrayal of the future . come on , Secretary of State , do you not want your own Back Benchers to ask question ? first , we have the VW scandal and now we have Dieselgate 2 , with multiple manufacturer accuse of fake it and emission up to 30 time the legal limit . can minister update we on the Department for Transport ' s inquiry and promise swift action when it be out ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern regard those report . this Government be focus on make transport greener , include by cut air pollution to improve health and the environment . we also need to ensure that people be abide by the rule . the responsible body , the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency , be pursue the potential diesel emission non - compliance use its procedure and the tool available . official at the DFT have assure I that the finding from these investigation will be publish in a timely and appropriate manner ; as an impatient politician , I can assure she that I will continue to press for a prompt and thorough interpretation of " timely " . accord to the National Audit Office , some 98 % of the 23 , 000 home fit with external wall insulation under Government scheme in recent year now need urgent repair to correct fault that lead directly to damp and mould . what plan do the Secretary of State have to remediate those affected property , and what do he have to say to the 3 , 000 resident of Surrey Heath living today in fuel poverty to give they confidence — order . climate change will have happen before you conclude . let I be absolutely clear : no family should ever have have to go through this . it happen because of the systematic failing of the system put in place by the previous Government , and we be clean up their mess . we will do that at no cost to consumer , and I be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss any case that he might have in his constituency . in his letter to GB Energy ' s CEO last month outline his strategic priority , the Secretary of State rightly state that reindustrialise our industrial heartland " with good job and strong trade union representation " go hand in hand with tackle the climate crisis . will he take the opportunity to reiterate that our investment in tackle the climate crisis and produce clean energy will deliver secure , long - term employment , and will be to the benefit of work people in Airdrie and Shotts and across the UK ? yes , I will . my hon . friend make an important point about the role of trade union in the renewable industry , too . the hundred of worker at Lindsey oil refinery will have note that in response to an early question , the Minister do not attempt to respond on the future of the refinery . at least two investor be look to take over the whole site . if they prove satisfactory , can the Minister assure I that the Government will back the project ? I be happy to have further conversation with the hon . Gentleman . I know that the refinery be in his constituency and that he care deeply about it . a process be under way — lead by the official receiver , because it be an insolvency process . it be consider a number of bid to make sure they be viable , and will conclude in the come week so that there be certainty for the workforce . we have say throughout that we want to support as much investment in that site as possible . Ofgem ' s late 2 % price cap rise mean high bill for million of household this winter , with the average annual cost now over £ 1 , 700 . for family who be already struggle , even a small increase can push they into hardship . while the expansion of the warm home discount to more than 6 million home be welcome , standing charge have also rise and energy debt now exceed £ 4 . 4 billion . can the Minister outline what far target protection be plan for vulnerable household this winter ? more broadly , what be the Government ' s plan to bring down bill , especially for those on low income ? as the Minister for Energy Consumers , I be totally focused on how we bring bill down . Ofgem have already release information about how it will be provide a low stand charge tariff from January . we will also publish the warm home plan before the end of the year . the warm home discount , which I encourage my hon . friend to encourage her constituent to apply for , be provide additional support to 2 . 7 million household . this week a conservation charity have indicate that the creep of wind farm in Scotland — 17 million tree have be cut down to provide for they — be destroy the highland , while in England 5 % of prime agricultural land be to be use for renewable energy project at a time when we produce only 60 % of our food . do the Secretary of State not recognise that his policy be destroy tourist area , will make we more dependent on foreign import for food , and will put up electricity price ? there be a two - decade disagreement between the right hon . Gentleman and I on these issue . the big threat to the countryside be the climate crisis . that be why this government be tackle it . while the Leader of the Opposition be rubbish contract for difference and call for they to be scrap , the Government be get on with the job of increase renewable energy , generate energy security and deliver job across the country . will the Minister reaffirm his support for contract for difference , and will he seek to work with industry to provide long - term clarity by set out a timescale for the future auction round ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : allocation round 6 deliver a record number of renewable project , and the job and investment that go with they will deliver job in constituency throughout the country , include hers . we have reform the scheme to ensure that allocation round 7 be a success , at a good price for consumer , and also that it deliver not only value for money but the clarity and investment for renewable project that be essential to our energy security and to future investment . will the Minister confirm that there be now a timetable to ensure that everyone who have a radio teleswitch meter will have it replace without lose their electricity , heating or hot water ? since take up my post four week ago , I have be deal with the issue of radio teleswitch . I be more than happy to meet the right hon . member to discuss the plan , and will soon be organise a roundtable with member on both side of the House to discuss they far . Speaker ' s Statement before we start the statement , I want to say a few word about our former colleague Lord Campbell of Pittenweem — well know to we as Ming — who die during the conference recess . Ming be universally like and respect across the House , regardless of people ' s party allegiance . unflappable , kind , principle , incredibly active and hold in great esteem by all party , Ming achieve success as an Olympian , as a lawyer and as a formidable politician in both Houses of Parliament , as well as leadership of the Liberal Democrats . he be one of Westminster ' s most authoritative voice on foreign affair , particularly in articulate his party ' s opposition to the invasion of Iraq in 2003 . on a personal level , Ming be a loyal friend to I and to my family . he serve with my father on the Trade and Industry Committee , where they conduct many inquiry , most notably into the Iraq supergun affair . the two often vent their frustration about the thwarting of their effort to get Ministers , official or even fellow member to appear before their Committee , but despite that , they pursue the inquiry fearlessly in order to get to the truth . some thing have never change . I know that Ming be hit especially hard by the death of his wife Elspeth ; they be , of course , marry for more than 50 year . courage , wisdom and integrity be Ming ' s hallmark . we have lose a dear colleague and , for many of we , a wonderful friend . our thought be with Ming ' s family , his friend , and his ally across the political party . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . may I first thank you for that generous tribute to our dear friend Ming ? I want to let the House into a secret about Ming Campbell : he be obsess with sport — as one might expect from someone who be the captain of the scottish man ' s team at the Commonwealth game . I remember he talk about how he have be captivate by the 1948 London Olympics at the age of seven , listen to it on the radio with his mother , and how he have decide back then that he want to run at a future olympic game . it be a dream of so many young boy and girl , but Ming — thank to his determination , drive and work ethic — actually make it happen : he represent our country at the Tokyo game in 1964 . for a man once know as " the Flying Scotsman " , who set a new british 100 - metre record at 10 . 2 second and who be probably the fast person ever elect to this House , Ming be never one to brag about his sporting accomplishment . in fact , he be such a gentleman and so averse to boastfulness that it could be hard to get he to talk about they at all . I remember when Wayne Rooney break a metatarsal in his foot ahead of the 2006 World cup . Ming have tell we a story about how he have suffer an injury before the 1964 olympic game and how hard he have work to overcome it . we be all beg he to go on the radio , tell that story and encourage Wayne Rooney — a rare chance for the liberal Democrat leader to break into the big sport story of the day — but Ming would not do it . I have to admit that it be frustrating at the time , but it be also a mark of why he be so respected and admire . that level of modesty be rare in anyone , especially in a politician , but those of we who know Ming know that it be simply the kind of man that he be . it say a lot about Ming ' s many and varied accomplishment that his extraordinary sporting achievement — be Britain ' s fast man and represent his country at the Olympics — will not be what he be most remember for . nor will he be most remember for his law career , though he excel at that too . he be even offer the chance to become a judge on Scotland ' s High Court in 1996 , but he turn it down because by then , as he put it , politic have get into his blood . and so , what Ming will be most remember for be his enormous contribution to british politic — a parliamentary career span five decade , include 28 year represent North East Fife . I get to know Ming early during his first Parliament , when I be the party ' s economics adviser base in our Whips Office . even then , he already have so much gravita . he be so charming , so thoughtful and so respected . Ming be among those few mp who be genuinely grandee from the first day they be elect , but his calmness , reasonableness and intense decency mask a radical politician : a man who never forget his root after grow up in a Glasgow tenement , and who be drive by a deep commitment to social justice . he say it be his role and the role of the Liberal Democrats to " rattle the cage " of british politic , and he do — especially , as you say , Mr Speaker , when it come to foreign affair and defence , on which he lead for our party for over 18 year , include , of course , in the lead - up to and after the Iraq war . I remember how difficult a decision it be for we to oppose that war . it feel like we be not just go against the Government , but take on the full might of the british state and the United States too . the way Ming tackle it , with his typically steady , forensic and lawyerly approach , give we both the confidence and resolve to speak up strongly for what we believe . he make our position firmly rooted in respect for international law . at a time when the world be in turmoil follow the horrific terrorist attack of 11 September , Ming provide principle leadership with his trademark combination of morality , courage and wisdom , and he continue to do so , whether as leader of our party , as a respected member of the Intelligence and Security Committee and of the Foreign Affairs Committee , or in the other place . I benefit greatly from Ming ' s advice and guidance over more than 30 year , and turn to he often about foreign affair in my own time as leader . I will miss his wise counsel , as I know many of we will . but , more than that , he be an incredibly warm and caring friend — a colleague with such generosity and humour . he call his late wife Elspeth his rock , and she be always by his side — mostly with a cigarette . they be such good fun and such great company . it be once say of Ming that he " run the risk of give politician a good name . " well , he certainly do that . his passing be a moment for we to consider how we be all view as politician and what change we could make , both individually and collectively , to further the cause of good , decent , hopeful politic — something that Ming embody entirely . Ming Campbell be a dedicated public servant , a tireless champion for Fife , St Andrews and the United Kingdom , and a true liberal giant . I know all of we in the Liberal Democrat family and across this House will miss he terribly . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . everyone in this House know what an honour it be to represent our country , but for most of we that appreciation come from the rather sedentary position on these Benches , not from the international running track where Lord Campbell of Pittenweem first represent Great Britain at the olympic game in Tokyo in 1964 . he remain quick on his foot as a barrister , before become an MP , where , I be tell , he make the most of his talent by sprint door to door while canvass . ultimately , of course , he become a respected voice on foreign and defence affair , become leader of the Liberal Democrats . this be despite many overture from one of my predecessor , his old Glasgow University friend John Smith , to join the Labour party as a young man . no , Ming , as many come to know he , be determine and he know his own mind . Ming Campbell be authoritative on the subject that he be passionate about , so it be no wonder that he have the respect and admiration of colleague across the House , who recognise his wisdom and unfailing kindness over 28 year of service as a Member of this Parliament . today we remember his commitment to Scotland and in particular of course to Fife — champion its industry from fish to , in his case , fly — as well as become chancellor of the University of St Andrews , where he speak of his joy at meet student and young people full of hope for the future — a future he have do so much to shape . it be a full life , well live alongside Elspeth , his beloved wife of more than 50 year . we be all enrich by his sense of duty and commitment to this country . he stand in the fine tradition of this House , so it be a privilege , on behalf of the Labour Benches , to pay tribute to the " Flying Scotsman " . may he rest in peace . I call the Leader of the Opposition . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . on behalf of the conservative party , I would like to add my voice to the tribute pay today to Lord Campbell . I have the pleasure of meeting Sir Ming Campbell , as he be then , just once — backstage before " any Questions ? " — and he be very courteous , very curious and very earnest . we all know how well respected he be across this House , not least because of the effort he make to work cross - party , especially on international matter . he be a man with a clear sense of right and wrong , commit to do the right thing even when it be difficult or unpopular , so I very much hope that his legacy of careful thought , integrity and public service endure . on behalf of myself and my party , I extend heartfelt condolence to Sir Ming ' s family , his party and all those who know he and love he . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . for those of we on all side who be here during the debate on the Iraq war , I want to thank Ming for the legal advice that he provide and the way that he address that debate , because he do so without seek any party advantage . he simply set out the legal principle on which he be make his decision , and he do so with compassion and with the recognition of the moral duty that we all have . many of we agree with he and vote with he , and many do not , but everybody respect his judgment as a result . I believe he be a model MP , always speak and vote on the basis of his conscience and the interest of his constituency and the country overall . he will be greatly miss , but I think his lesson will remain with many of we throughout our own parliamentary career . I call the Father of the House . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . as a conservative , I want to join our liberal friend in pay tribute to such a gallant and charming gentleman . his least successful period in this House be probably as leader of his party — perhaps he be just too nice ; perhaps he could see both side of the question — but what a great man and what a great foreign affair spokesman . follow on from the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , the whole episode of the Iraq war be so difficult for we in this House , particularly for those of we who break with our party to oppose it . he give we leadership and rigour , and he have be prove right . of course , there be no prize for be prove right , but history will prove he right . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I stand here as a friend of Ming ' s , but also as the current representative of his seat . I know how much he feel the privilege of be elect to this House for 28 year as the representative for North East Fife . I also know the very high regard in which he be hold in the constituency . all I have have — both myself and the MSP for the constituency , Willie Rennie , who be previously a member of this place — be very kind thought from constituent and story about Ming that we have take to our heart . he first stand for Parliament in Greenock in 1974 . Greenock be my hometown . I be quite reassure , when I be first engage with Ming , that we at least have something in common . what the Prime Minister say be right : he have the opportunity to switch to other party , but he choose not to . although he first stand in 1974 , it take until 1987 before he be elect in North East Fife . that show the spirit and determination he have as an individual , but also the work he do to build the constituency and build the local party . I have have lot of thought from the local party , too . one of they I think would be worth share with the House . shortly after his election , which be a close contest against the sit Conservative MP , they decide to take a celebratory boat trip out to the Isle of May to see the puffin . unfortunately , the boat break down on the way . Ming and Elspeth keep everybody calm . it be interesting that even people who do not vote for he come out and rescue the boat . [ laughter . ] that be the respect with which he be regard . in his tribute , my constituency colleague Willie Rennie say that Ming have have three career : politic , law and , obviously , sport . he be a parliamentarian , he be a KC , he be an Olympian and he be a companion of Honour . if any of we can aspire to the great height that Ming reach , that be worth aspire to . the Prime Minister also mention his chancellorship of the University of St Andrews , which he hold for 19 year . I know that those at the university be very sad at his loss and passing . indeed , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) and I visit the university last week to meet they and discuss Ming . I will finish with some personal memory . he be a great support to I , but I do remember , when I be run for the selection in 2018 , that there be a constituency lunch in North East Fife . one of the member who be supportive of my candidacy make sure that I be sit at the same table as Elspeth , because I be assure that if I could get Elspeth onside , Ming would surely follow . since I be elect , we would meet every so often . every month , we would have a cup of tea and a scone in the Pugin Room , and he would tell I all the thing that I need to be do . the Secretary of State for Defence be not here , but Ming would always ask I , right up until the last time I see he , about Leuchars and what the strategic defence review mean , and talk about how important defence be for he and the constituency . there be no doubt that the loss of Elspeth be devastating and he be never quite the same . I think everybody would accept that when we see he here , but really up until those last week , he , although very frail , be absolutely still there and we have many great conversation . I see he just the week before he die , and it do feel like a " goodbye " conversation . I know that he will be much miss across this House , and I be very grateful for all the tribute that have be pay to he . hear , hear . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . Ming Campbell be a good friend of mine . there be a body call the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , which have not be mention yet today . Ming Campbell be a member for over 30 year , only really pause when he become leader of the Liberal Democrats . when I join that body in 2015 , the respect with which Ming Campbell be regard across the entire alliance — indeed , by so many partner country , almost across the world — become apparent almost immediately . it do not matter if we be meet president , Prime Ministers or even royal family . Ming would come into the room and greet , say , the King of Spain in the same way he would greet somebody in the Tea Room and the respect shine through . I remember very clearly when he be the chairman of several of the Assembly ' s committee . sometimes ally in those committee maybe do not quite see eye to eye and get into some really heated argument . Ming simply hit the table and say , " enough ! " and the silence fall . that be the level of respect he have . during the coalition year , he be able to be appoint as leader of the United Kingdom delegation to the Assembly . when I have the honour of take on that role , I do not think many week pass when I do not call Ming on his mobile phone and say , " Ming , I need some advice on this difficult situation . " that be especially true during the covid year , when we be try to work out how we be go to make the annual and spring Assemblies work online . Ming be always there with sage advice on how to lead our delegation . one thing that be true about serve on an international body be that we spend an awful lot of time in airport , especially when flight be delay . Ming always have a story and they be genuinely fascinating . his legal career have be mention . there be one particular story that I like , because it show his quick wit and his ability to move swiftly on his foot , which be an important ability for a KC . he say he have be prosecute a defendant charge with cause affray and drunken disorderly behaviour . he put the question , " how much have you drunk ? " apparently , the defendant say , " oh , only eight or nine pint . " he pause and say , " be you mean to tell this court that you drink a gallon of beer and you don ' t consider that to be very much ? " he say that at that point , he know he have he . he would tell so many story . he be very proud of his time in San Francisco , where he train to be a top sprinter . he say , " academically , it didn ' t go quite as well as it should have do . I think I just spend far too much time at the track . " he be , as I have say , enormously respect across the world . he be a great friend to I and a great sage . his politic be clear , but his party allegiance do not matter when it come to important role of state and the intellectual rigour that have to be bring to important issue . I will miss he , and I know a great number of people in this House will miss he . he truly be a giant of british politic . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I have the distinction of succeed Ming Campbell in this place . he probably be not unhappy that I be not his current successor — he speak so highly of his current successor — but I have to say how highly I think of he . I have hear so many nice story today about his role globally , but as the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) reflect so beautifully , more important than that be that he be so highly regard locally . when I take over from he , it be difficult to go to any one of the 99 community in his constituency where there be not a story or somebody who have be help . and at the University of St Andrews , he be an outstanding Chancellor and colleague . I want to pay tribute to somebody who I may not have agree with , but when we have that precious relationship between a constituency and the Member of Parliament — nobody well replicate that in his day - to - day work . I want to pay tribute to a european and an internationalist , but more than that an outstanding local representative . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I wish to add my word of tribute to my friend , Ming Campbell . he have an impact on I long before I meet he . the first general election I be active in be 1987 . no offence to any other Liberal MP at the time — none of they be present here — but I be very impressed with Ming Campbell . he strike I as not be like other liberal mps : he look like he could actually run the country . [ laughter . ] he have gravita . I be pretty sure that be what I say to my mother in the early hour of , I think , 12 June 1987 , when he gain North East Fife from the Conservatives : " you look the real deal . you look incredibly competent . " and of course , in the year that follow , he demonstrate that . we have talk about the Iraq war . what Ming Campbell do — yes , apply his legal expertise and insight into international law as well as the law of this land — be to make the connection , in what be often think of as the esoteric business of human right , that human right be about human duty . they be about make sure that nobody be above the law — no Prime Minister and no President . he make that clear and make it crossover into public consciousness in a way that be really very remarkable . I then realise I have a connection with Ming . when I meet my wife , Rosie , in the ' 90 , it turn out that she now , sadly , late father , Mark Cantley , open the bowling with Ming at Glasgow Hillhead . they have not speak to each other for 30 - odd year until Ming come to do a talk at the university at Ambleside shortly after I have be select , and the two of they continue a friendship until Mark ' s pass just two year ago . in 2005 , the year I be elect , the late , great Charles Kennedy be mean to be do the constituency visit to Westmorland , but his son be bear the night before . Ming get draft in at the last minute and do two visit for I — when you win by 267 vote , every single thing count , so I have he to thank for that . when Ming become leader in 2006 , I have the honour of serve as his parliamentary private Secretary . what insight do I get during that time ? he be obsess with sport and run , and , despite the fact that this be a man who could run 100 metre in 10 second , he be incredibly generous in hear the story of somebody who be a 10th - rate fall runner . in my time as leader , Ming be a great source of advice and wisdom . after that time , he and his wife , Elspeth , who we have mention , would regularly go on holiday in Ullswater , and they would always make a point of do a visit in Westmorland — whether we ask they or not . [ laughter . ] my recollection be of Ming talk to the local newspaper or tv station and Elspeth with not simply a fag but a pink cigarette holder , look every bit a real - life Lady Penelope from the " Thunderbirds " . one of our predecessor , the late , great Jo Grimond , once say that the good liberal candidate should dress to the right and talk to the left . Ming Campbell bear all the air of an establishment figure and be a radical to his die breath . he be kind , wise , decent , talented and loyal . he be my friend , and I miss he . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I would like to state that Sir Ming Campbell , as he then be , be the perfect example of how it be possible to disagree with another parliamentarian on a key issue and yet work side by side on other issue without any rancour or reservation . my dealing with Ming do not get off to the good start , as we be generally on opposite side of a debate about the replacement of Trident submarine and the replacement of continuous at - sea deterrence by part - time patrol . nevertheless , once we get to know each other well on the Intelligence and Security Committee , we find ourselves make common cause on such issue as the safeguarding of the vital BBC Monitoring service for the future , the need to enhance spending on defence with an improved defence budgeting priority and , above all , the folly that could have happen of Britain intervene militarily in the syrian civil war . in short , Ming bring courtesy , style , courage and grace to public life to the benefit of society as a whole . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I would also like to pay tribute to Ming Campbell , whom I meet personally in later year , but whose political influence have hang over my entire adult life . as an 18 - year - old student at the University of Glasgow , I hear about these three great figure of british politic who have study together and be great friend : Donald Dewar , who become the first First Minister of Scotland ; John Smith , whose legacy as leader of the Labour party be well respected ; and , of course , Ming Campbell . I find that his persona , his influence , his attitude to politic and his integrity influence I . it be one of the thing that pull I towards the Liberal party , as it then be . the first time I come across Ming personally be year later , about a year after he have step down as leader . when I make my maiden speech to the scottish conference , I discover that I be speak on a motion propose by Ming Campbell , which be , of course — this will come as no surprise to many — about RAF Leuchars , its future and what we need to do to defend it . that be a thread that run through . in 2017 , when I be stand in Edinburgh West , Ming come to launch my campaign — in fact , he help I up on to a chair so that everybody could see I . he be there to be supportive . I learn a lot about his kindness and thoughtfulness a few week later , when my husband die and Ming take the time to take I aside and make sure I be okay and that I have the support I need to get through the campaign . Most of all , though , I enjoy my chat with Ming on a Monday in the departure lounge at Edinburgh airport . he always have a tale to tell , and he always have a kind word about my column in the Scotsman . my team in the office be endlessly amuse by how pleased I be that Ming Campbell have even read my column , never mind agree with it . Ming be , in many way , with the integrity , kindness and thoughtfulness that everyone have speak about , an example that we should all aspire to and try to live up to . there be a certain restaurant in Pimlico , which I be sure my colleague be aware of , that many of we be introduce to by Ming Campbell . I be sure we think of he every time we go there , as I think we will the next time we go . we may make a point of go there and raise a glass to someone who be an example not just of what we should be , but perhaps of what the world need now more than ever among its politician . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I think it be appropriate that on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party , and indeed on behalf of all Northern Ireland parliamentarian , I extend our condolence to the Liberal Democrats and to the colleague who know Mr Campbell well than I do . I first come across Sir Ming when I be at school , and he become leader of his party when I be at university . it be not his prowess , his intelligence or his ability to launch an argument that strike I , but his name : Ming . I know of no other Mings than Ming the Merciless — [ Laughter ] — and yet we get to know Ming the Merciful . we get to know Ming the politician , who stand and achieve the respect of colleague right across this House . he be a sincere Unionist , an avow Scot and a true parliamentarian . I would like to take this moment to pass on our respect for his life and pay tribute to his legacy . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I be sure that Ming would have be delighted with the tribute pay to he today by the Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) and many other . just as importantly , I think Elspeth would have be equally delighted . she would have be raise a glass of champagne in celebration . Ming be remember as a brilliant and successful athlete and an accomplished , distinguished advocate . he be a real fixture in this House , utterly authoritative on foreign policy and defence matter for more than two decade . less well remember be the fact that it take he three election and a decade to be elect to represent Fife , a seat he then hold for 28 year . he be , therefore , sympathetic and hugely supportive of my similarly numerous effort to win in Wokingham . for all that patrician charm he deploy to win over judge in court , he be also a savvy street campaigner his opponent underestimate at their peril . on one of his many visit to Wokingham , a local journalist ask he why he visit so often . he reply , " I have invest so much in this young man " — it be only 10 year ago ! — " that I be determined to see he succeed . " he be delighted when that investment pay off last July . Ming be very generous with his time and his advice . he be a warm and generous friend to I and my family , to many colleague and to the many , many friend he make in Wokingham along the way . he will be fondly remember by everybody who know he well and , by wide agreement , as be probably one of the nice people to ever lead a political party in the UK . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . it be an honour to follow the tribute of so many across the House . Ming Campbell be an inspiration to I and to many other who admire his integrity , courtesy and tenacity . I be lucky to have know Ming all my life , and I know how much his death will be feel by his family and the many friend who love he . I share their grief . Ming ' s athletic achievement show a man determined to work hard and make sacrifice to push himself to the limit . his international success have already be mention , but I remember he — in his mid - 40 at that point — say with some feeling that the annual school sport day have become a major focus , since he be the one the other dad want to beat in the father ' race . behind that gracious fa ç ade be a true competitor . Ming be of that remarkable generation of Glasgow University debater from all party who strove for a well society . across a lifetime in politic , he maintain close friendship with those of other party , yet he be clear on his politic . Ming ' s tenacity be show in his dedication to scottish liberalism , work hard to win the North East Fife seat at his fifth general election . Ming serve our party for many year as foreign affair spokesperson . with his distinctive eloquent delivery and his disarm courtesy , Ming could easily be underestimate by some as an orator , not an actor , yet his principled approach to the Iraq war demonstrate his courage and steel . he do not shirk from do the right thing . for Ming , international liberalism be not an abstract ideal but a set of practical moral obligation . as we say goodbye to a much - love parliamentarian , we also remember a private man . Ming ' s marriage to Elspeth be the anchor of his life . the last time I see Ming he speak with love and feel about Elspeth . he be continue his life ' s work in Parliament , but it be clear he feel acutely that he be continue it without his life partner . Theirs be a truly devoted partnership . Ming Campbell live an incredible life as an athlete , advocate , political leader and love husband . he be a lifelong liberal whose principle drive his choice . he be rightly remember with admiration and affection today across the House . he will be sorely miss . Middle East before I update the House on the peace process in the middle east and my trade visit to India , I want to put on record my utter condemnation of the vile antisemitic terrorist attack at the Heaton Park synagogue in Manchester , which kill two jewish man : Adrian Daulby and Melvin Cravitz . antisemitism be not a new hatred . here in Britain , Jews have have to deal with the shameful reality that their building , their way of life and their child need extra protection . we must also be crystal clear that while this be an attack on Jews because they be Jews , the islamist extremism that motivate this sick individual be a threat to every citizen of this country . it be an attack on british value , british security and the british decency that hold our community together . moreover , we can see clearly that antisemitism be on the rise in Britain once again . we will scale up the protection we provide for jewish people . we will set out new measure to prevent hatred abuse the democratic right to protest . we will stop at nothing to root out antisemitism . the same apply to the arson attack on the Peacehaven mosque . an attack on british Muslims be also an attack on we all , so we condemn this despicable crime and the poison of anti - muslim hatred . we will fight against hate in all its form . I now turn to the middle east , and to word I have long to say in this House for a very long time : the survive hostage be free , the bombardment of Gaza have stop , and desperately need aid be start to enter . as a result of the peace plan lead by President Trump , we have the chance — it be a chance — to bring a terrible chapter in history finally to a close . it be a moment of profound relief for the House , this nation , and indeed the whole world , but it be temper , of course , by the knowledge that for the hostage and their family , the love one of those kill on 7 October and the innocent civilian in Gaza — the dead , the bereaved , the starving — this have be two year of live hell . I think of Avinatan or , who have family tie to the United Kingdom , return at last to his family and his girlfriend Noa . Avinatan and Noa be take from that music festival two year ago , the footage of their abduction film by Hamas — evil commit to camera . I have meet Avinatan ' s family , and hear for myself the agony that they suffer for two long year , wait for he to come home . his frail condition be shocking evidence of the appalling treatment he must have endure . we await the release of the deceased hostage ; their family need the chance to grieve , so we demand that they be return to their family immediately . my thought be also with the people of Gaza , almost all of whom will have lose family member — husband , wife , brother , sister and , bad of all , son and daughter . over 20 , 000 child be kill . I think of people like Yara Yaghi , who I meet a year ago . she be 17 year old and be study at college in Hertfordshire . she have lose 44 member of her family — a pain that can not be erase , even as we welcome the peace today . mercifully , the killing and destruction have now stop , and aid be begin to enter Gaza . to be clear , we urgently need to see more aid , and fast . all restriction must now be lift . the need for food , sanitation , healthcare and shelter be all still acute . while the signing yesterday be historic , what matter now be implementation and get help in as quickly as possible . the UK be provide £ 20 million in additional humanitarian support to get water , sanitation and hygiene product to ten of thousand of civilian across Gaza . that be in addition to the support we be already provide . our two field hospital in Gaza have already see 600 , 000 patient , and early this month we evacuate the third group of sick and injure palestinian child to the United Kingdom . they be now be treat by the NHS . we will work with the UN and our partner to go far and fast in provide the aid that be so desperately need . let no one be in any doubt that none of this would have be possible without President Trump . this be his peace deal , deliver of course with President Sisi of Egypt , the Emir of Qatar and President Erdo ğ an of T ü rkiye . alongside our partner , we offer the UK ' s full support to these effort . we have work behind the scene for month with the US and arab and european nation to help deliver a ceasefire , get the hostage out , get aid in and secure a well future for Israel , Gaza and the west bank . I be proud of our contribution . we be in a position to play this role precisely because of the approach this Government take . that include our decision to recognise the state of Palestine . this move , take alongside our ally — France , Canada , Australia and other — help lead to the historic New York declaration , in which , for the first time , the entire Arab League condemn the atrocity of 7 October , urge Hamas to disarm and , crucially , demand that it end its rule in Gaza . but let I be clear that while we celebrate the relief of peace today , make that peace last will be no less difficult a task . along with our ally , we will have absolute focus in the day and week ahead on the relentless implementation of the peace plan . that be no small challenge , so we stand ready to deploy our diplomacy and expertise in three key area . the first be in support the reconstruction of Gaza , which be an immense task . the devastation defy description . this will require a truly international effort ; we be ready to play our part , start at a conference this week , here in the United Kingdom , host by the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) . secondly , to support transitional governance arrangement in Gaza , we will continue to work closely with the Palestinian Authority on the vital reform that they need to make . thirdly , we will help ensure security in Gaza through a ceasefire monitor process and planning for the international stabilisation force . draw on our experience in Northern Ireland , we stand ready to play a full role in the decommissioning of Hamas weapon and capability , because , as the House know , there can be no viable future for Gaza and no security for Israel if Hamas can still threaten bloodshed and terror , so we will work to put that threat out of action for good . this be the first real chance we have have of a two - state solution since the Oslo accord over three decade ago , so we be fully commit to this , because a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable palestinian state be the only way to secure last peace for the middle east . I have be clear all along that that must be our goal , so we will work now to follow through on the 20 - point peace plan and deliver it in full , include by support a dialogue to agree on a political horizon for peaceful co - existence . finally , I want to update the House on my discussion with Prime Minister Modi last week in Mumbai . India be a grow force on the world stage , and be on track to have the third - large economy by 2028 . in addition to the bond that we already share — the live bridge of family and history — we be also unite by the future and the incredible opportunity that we see before we . that be why , back in July , we sign a historic trade deal , open up new opportunity for british business in India . that be why , last week , I lead the big british trade delegation to India ever . we announce that more british university be open campus in India , make we its lead international education provider . we be also deepen the UK - India technology security initiative to boost opportunity for our brilliant tech sector . we also announce new deal and investment , include in advanced manufacturing , defence , car production and Bollywood film make here in the United Kingdom . those investment into the United Kingdom be worth £ 1 . 3 billion , and they will create 10 , 600 job . that be real change that people will see in their community up and down the country . I set that out because it speak again to our approach on the world stage , as do our deal with the United States and the EU , and the approach that we bring to crisis and conflict as well . instead of threaten to walk away or indulge in the cheap political theatre that come from castigate our ally — ally we need to deliver peace and economic stability in a dangerous , volatile world — we stay in the room . we trust in diplomacy , and we back the reputation , talent and pride of this country to change the world to the benefit of the british people . this be a politic of national renewal , in which we work with our partner , rather than against they — a politic that solve problem , rather than exploit they , and that believe that our openness to the world be what help we take control of our future , rather than shut the door and hope for the good . that be how the Government deliver for Britain . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I be grateful to the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement . I remember almost two year ago meet three mother whose child have be steal from they on 7 October and hold captive in terror tunnel . they be live a nightmare unimaginable for any parent . many of we on the Conservative Benches have meet hostage and their family , and hear their story and support they . yesterday , it be truly momentous to finally see the return of the 20 live hostage , who be now back home in Israel after over 730 day in terrorist captivity . the hostage release yesterday show superhuman endurance in the face of evil . we send every good wish to they and their family as they begin the process of rebuild their life . we also mourn those hostage kill by Hamas , and continue to call for all their body to be return to their family . we must never forget what happen on 7 October 2023 . the abduction of man , woman and child be a calculated cruelty to break body , mind and soul after inflict the mindless horror of rape and murder . there be no cause and no grievance that can ever justify what happen that day ; I for one will never forget . the response from some in the west — the equivocation , the indulgence in whataboutery and the drawing of false equivalence — show how far moral clarity have erode . we have a job to do here at home to fix that . on the conservative Benches , we stand alongside Israel in our share fight against islamist terror . the conflict could have end a long time ago if the hostage have be return . so many palestinian life have be needlessly lose because of this war . Hamas be a genocidal terrorist organisation . a sustainable end to the suffering of civilian in Gaza mean the complete eradication of Hamas and the dismantling of their terrorist infrastructure . even now , we know that Hamas be still kill Palestinians in Gaza . the initial phase of the US - back peace plan represent a significant breakthrough . I thank the US Administration , President Trump and regional mediator for have secure this outcome . they put in the hard yard and find solution , make clear that all progress would depend on the release of the hostage — a condition that some other government forget . with this peace deal , there be much to be hopeful for in the middle east . if the Abraham accord be expand , a new age of peace will have arrive . we will see diplomatic normalisation of relation between Israel and the arab world — something that many of we have long to see . it sadden I that the Prime Minister ' s statement do not appear to show that the UK be at the heart of any of these effort specifically . it be quite clear that UK relation with Israel have be strain by the Government ' s action . Israel ' s view — it have be state publicly — be that it look like the Prime Minister , under pressure from his Back Benchers , have take the wrong decision time and again , diminish our influence in the region . [ hon . member : " Shame ! " ] Labour Members can shout " shame " as much as they want . within week of Labour come into power , the Government decide to restore funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . we have not forget that . [ interruption . ] they say " yes " ; that be an organisation whose member assist in the kidnapping of the hostage whose release we be celebrate today . relation with Israel have be so damaged that when Israel launch strike against Iran — a country that have be a direct threat to we for year — the UK be out of the loop . Labour Members may not like it , but that be the truth . then , in a move praise by Hamas , Labour decide to recognise a state of Palestine , without impose the condition that hostage still hold in the tunnel of Gaza be release , reward terrorism . [ interruption . ] they may chunter from a sedentary position ; I remind they that the british - israeli former hostage Emily Damari call that a " moral failure " . I be surprised to hear the Prime Minister say that recognition contribute to the peace deal . we all know that the US Secretary of State , Marco Rubio , condemn that recognition , say that it have make ceasefire negotiation hard . that be what the US say . the truth be that as historic event have unfold in the middle east , Britain have be out of step with the US . the US ambassador to Israel even call the Government ' s claim that they have play a key role in the ceasefire " delusional " , which israeli Foreign Ministers agree with . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s promise to scale up protection for jewish people in our country . Britain have always be a sanctuary for british Jews , but after the tragic murder of two british Jews outside a synagogue in Manchester , the Government must now do everything they can do eradicate antisemitism . the anti - Israel protester who have turn our street into theatre of hate have be relatively silent about the good news of a ceasefire and hostage return , show we their real motivation . the Prime Minister mention in his statement the Palestinian Authority . will he tell we whether the Government ' s preference be for the Palestinian Authority to take the rein in Gaza if they have commit to end the pay - for - slay policy that reward family of terrorist for kill Israelis ? will they deal with antisemitism in education and be they demonstrate any democratic progress ? there be also domestic implication . we need to strengthen our border . Hamas be still run Gaza , and those allow to leave can do so only with Hamas ' s approval . we should not bring anyone to Britain with link to extremism , to antisemitism , or to Hamas and other terrorist . will the Prime Minister therefore confirm whether he intend to bring people from Gaza to study , for healthcare or for other purpose ? what measure be in place to ensure that we do not import extremism , antisemitism or anyone link to Hamas and other terrorist ? Britain be a great country and still a powerful one . we still have agency to shape the world around we . the Government must do well and show that they have the backbone to use Britain ' s power to make a well world . may I thank the Leader of the Opposition for her word about the hostage a moment ago ? I know how heartfelt they be . I be surprised and sadden that she spend more time attack what we actually do to help the process than even mention the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , without set out in term the number of people who have be kill , who be starve and who have be subject to denial of aid . when the immediate task for any serious Government be to work with ally to get that aid in at speed , I would have expect at least an acknowledgment of that terrible situation . it show , yet again , just how far her party have slide from a serious statesperson ' s approach to diplomacy . this be not the time for a fight about what role any individual play . I be proud of what Steve Witkoff say about our National Security Adviser . he be negotiate this , he know the role that we play , and this House should be proud of that . we be able to play that role only because of the relationship that this Government have with the Trump Administration : we be a trusted partner , work both before this peace deal and afterwards . and yes , I do discuss recognition of Palestine with President Trump when he be over here , because that be what grown - up , responsible partner do — unlike the discussion here . I stand by my word that in New York that be the first time that other country in the region be clear in their condemnation of Hamas . that be a key aspect of what have now happen . on her other question , the Leader of the Opposition will know , from the reform that have already be commit to , that the Palestinian Authority will not tolerate any election of individual or party that be not commit to a peaceful process . that be an absolute red line , it be part of the agreement and it be what we have be talk to other ally about for a very long time . on healthcare case , as I report , we have have such case come to the United Kingdom , as well as student . we be extremely careful in the check that we carry out on everybody who come to this country . I return to the fact that this be a historic deal . it be important for the region and it be important for the world . it be to be celebrate across this House because of the relief it bring to the hostage and their family in particular , and to the many thousand of people in Gaza . as I say , I be surprised and sadden that the Leader of the Opposition have overlook a really important part of the resolution of the conflict . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . I thank the Prime Minister , his Ministers and all the official who I know have be work incredibly hard behind the scene for the past two year to get to this historic point . he be right ; it be a chance for peace . I be nervous about the next stage , but it be definitely a chance to get aid flooding into Gaza . will he give we some more detail about how that will happen in practice , with Israel control all the border ? will he also speak about the role of UNRWA ? I say to the Leader of the Opposition that UNRWA be a UN organisation that act as the local authority , provide education , medical service , sewerage and desalination . it be an organisation that be central to support the Palestinians face starvation and deal with the consequence of genocide . I urge the Prime Minister to continue to rally the international community to put pressure on Israel to let that aid flood in and to ensure that the Palestinians be central in the future of their community . I thank my hon . friend for her hard work over many year on this issue and for raise the question of aid . the critical test of the next few day and week will be whether that aid get in . of course , there be the goal of a two - state outcome , but the immediate task over the next day and week be to get that aid in . it be begin to go in , but not in sufficient quantity and not at sufficient speed . I spend a lot of yesterday , along with our team that be work with other — particularly the King of Jordan — on what practical assistance the United Kingdom can give to ensure that aid get in as quickly as be need . it be probably one of the most central issue in the come day and week , and I thank she for raise it . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement . I join he in condemn the evil , antisemitic terrorist attack that kill Adrian Daulby and Melvin Cravitz at their synagogue in Manchester . antisemitism must be stamp out and british Jews must be able to feel safe in our country . after the horrific Hamas terror attack of 7 October and two year of appal death and destruction since , the ceasefire in Gaza come as an enormous relief to we all . it finally offer a moment of hope , but it be only the beginning and there be a lot of work to do . already today we can see how precarious the situation be , with israeli force kill Palestinians who they say cross the yellow line and both side accuse each other of violate the ceasefire . the immediate priority must be to ensure that the ceasefire hold , as well as ensure that lifesave food , water and medicine reach all those face starvation and disease . will the Prime Minister set out in more detail what the UK be do to get aid into Gaza as quickly as possible , and will he keep the House update on those vital effort ? it be so move to see the image yesterday of family weep with joy as hostage be reunite with their love one . however , do the Prime Minister share my anger and the anger of bereaved family that Hamas have still not release the body of all deceased hostage ? those terrorist capture innocent people , hold they hostage and kill they , and even now , they deny their family the chance to bury they and mourn they properly . palestinian family be start to return home too , but for many , their home be now rubble and the process of rebuilding will be long and difficult . a ceasefire be not the same as a last peace . only a two - state solution can deliver that , so I welcome the Prime Minister ' s decision to finally recognise Palestine last month . what work be he do with partner to help build a viable palestinian state that can live peacefully alongside Israel ? have he speak to President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu to make it clear that the expansion of illegal israeli settlement in the west bank must stop ? Israelis and Palestinians have suffer unimaginable trauma and much of it will never be heal , but today they can at least begin to hope that their child will grow up free of this appalling cycle of violence . I thank the right hon . gentleman for the content and tone of his response . on his question , we be work with other on get aid into Gaza . until recently that have be mainly airdrop , but what we really need be truck go in . that be what we focus on in the practical work we be do yesterday in Egypt , and we will continue to do so . I will take up the right hon . Gentleman ' s invitation to update the House on that . personally , I think that in these early day it be probably one of the single most important thing that we need to absolutely focus on . yes , it be an historic day , but implement the plan be really important . any misstep — any step backwards — would have the potential to undermine what happen yesterday . I absolutely agree that the body must be release . those poor family need to be able to grieve properly and they can not do so . it be cruel that the body have be hold for so long and they must be immediately release . the two - state solution be necessarily and rightly the long - term objective . I do not believe there will be last peace without a two - state solution — a safe and secure Israel , which we do not have ; and a viable palestinian state , which we do not have — so that must be the end goal , and we be work with other to ensure that remain the goal . along the way there have to be the work on the governance , security and reconstruction in Gaza . I have to say that once the medium be fully into Gaza , I think we will be have quite some debate in this House , when the full horror of what have happen there and the devastation be finally see . on illegal settlement , yes , I absolutely have make it clear , in relation to the west bank , what must happen — or not happen , I should say — in relation to the illegal settlement . it be important that we ensure that this process lead to a last peace for Israel , for Gaza and , of course , for the west bank as well . the Prime Minister mention his conversation with President Sisi , so may I take this opportunity to thank he for his conversation and intervention with President Sisi and his team to secure the release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah from an egyptian prison ? we be all elated at the release of the hostage and the detainee and prisoner , but there be some confusion about whether two prominent Gazan palestinian doctor have be release . Dr Hussam Abu Safiya and Dr Marwan al - Hams be both detain and unfortunately ill - treat in israeli prison . it would be really helpful if the Prime Minister could confirm whether they have be release and , if they have not be , make further representation to the israeli authority . I thank my right hon . friend for his word in relation to Alaa Abd el - Fattah and for his long campaign to raise that important issue . on the two doctor , what I can say be that the case have be raise . I do not yet know what the status be , but I will do my good to find out and get a well answer to he as quickly as we can . I call the Father of the House . beneath all the peace rhetoric , the brutal Hamas regime be openly execute people yesterday , and refuse to give up their weapon . Prime Minister Netanyahu have say that he be go to remove they by force if necessary , and he refuse to accept a state in the west bank . it may be naive , but can not both side of the House unite in say that we be absolutely , completely committed to create a palestinian state in the west bank ? that be their God - give right and it be the only way we be go to end the cycle of despair and violence . that sound like the old Tory party I use to know , and I be really pleased to hear it . in a sense , it be only by unite across this House in the face of a conflict that have go on for far too long , and by be clear - eyed about the only way there can be peace that be last , that we will be able to play a full part as a country in bring that about . I welcome the old tone and the old content that I just hear . the emotional scene in recent day in Palestine and Israel be proof that only politic and never violence can bring security to the people of the region . accountability for the heinous killing that have take place must be part of the future , too . as someone who , as an aid worker , stand in a hospital in Gaza last year , I know that the UK can play a key role in rebuild Gaza ' s decimate health system . will the Prime Minister meet I to discuss this ? and will he convey the thank of those on the Government Benches to the National Security Adviser , who have play a truly vital role in make the ceasefire happen ? not for the first time , the Leader of the Opposition have no idea what she be talk about — and her Back Benchers know it as well . I do acknowledge the important role that the National Security Adviser play . it be a typical UK role : quiet , behind - the - scene and diplomatic , but bring about really helpful step towards the desire end . I will make sure that my hon . friend get a meeting with the relevant Minister on the other issue . be not yesterday an historic and much - long - for day for which this Government and the last one work tirelessly since the dreadful event of 7 October ? do the Prime Minister agree that , just as real progress at Oslo be make on the back of the intifada , so now we must use the exceptional connection and deep historical knowledge that Britain have throughout the region to help secure a definitive resolution for the middle east to problem that have disfigure the world and poison the well of international progress and opinion for so many generation ? first , I acknowledge the role that the right hon . Gentleman play in office just before the election , what he personally bring to the table in relation to this issue , and the cross - party way in which he work to ensure that the House as a whole could bring to bear pressure to bring about change . he be right about the goal that we need to achieve and the way we want to achieve it , so I wholeheartedly agree with he . can I say to the Leader of the Opposition that not every statement in this House be an opportunity for political knockabout ? this be one of those occasion that require a statesperson . there be report that militia group be seek to gain control of certain area in Gaza . what can be do to make sure that it be the people of Palestine who determine their future , and not the big gang ? what can we do about this situation ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . there be concern report of what gang be get up to . the immediate next step need to be , on the one hand , get aid into Gaza and , on the other , get well security arrangement in Gaza . that have to come in two stage . the stabilisation force will take some time , but immediate step be need to stabilise the situation now . I begin by express relief at the release of the hostage , but anger that so many have not live to see this day , and relief that Palestinians be not shelter from the sky today , but anger that so many be do so without friend and family by their side and without home to return to . as we all embrace that collective relief , let we not forget that access to aid be essential . access for the world ' s medium and investigator to document crime against humanity be essential . a two - state solution be essential . accountability be essential . with those word in mind , I say to the Prime Minister what I say to his predecessor two year ago : history will judge we by our response and by our action . up until now , on too many occasion we have fail . let we not do so any more . I agree with the right hon . gentleman that aid be the immediate issue , and I agree that the medium absolutely need to be allow in to document what have to be see . on a two - state solution , of course there have to be accountability . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and warmly welcome the ceasefire , both for the beginning of the end of the suffering of the child of Gaza and for the release of the hostage , one of whom be Nimrod Cohen , whose brother I meet in Jerusalem early this year and whose family be eternally grateful for everything that this country and the United States have do to secure their release . I also thank the Prime Minister for his emphasis today on the need to flood Gaza with aid , something we have not see do at all adequately until now . do he agree with the UN ' s Tom Fletcher that more government need to urgently fund the UN ' s flash appeal for the Occupied Palestinian Territories ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I agree that flood aid be the essential next step , and I take the opportunity to have a discussion with Tom Fletcher yesterday about what more we could do in that regard . set aside the fact that we find ourselves in a situation where condition have be place upon the cessation of the annihilation of an entire people and the strange delineation between hostage on one side and prisoner hold in administrative detention on the other , we should all of course , as the Prime Minister say , express profound relief at the end of the killing , not least of one child every 45 minute for two year . be not the lesson of the last two year that when the UK finally move on from empty rhetoric to take concrete action , there be movement in the party to a conflict like this , and that therefore we should be think about what more concrete action we can take , in particular in three area ? first , can we please have concrete step to deter israeli territorial ambition in the west bank , include a ban on settlement good , now that we have officially recognise that territory ? secondly , could we have a reassertion of UK support for international law and the institution that support it ? in particular , could the Prime Minister use his relationship with President Trump to have the sanction on individual at the UN and the International Criminal Court lift ? finally , if we be to support or participate in an international stabilisation force , could we insist that it also cover area B and C of the occupy Palestinian Territories , where the Israel Defence Forces too often act as cover for incident of israeli terrorism ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , and I will take each of the three part in turn . certainly , on the west bank , we have take action , as he know , and we will continue to look at what further action we can take where we can with other country . it be important , as we focus on Gaza , that we do not forget the situation in the west bank , as he rightly know . on international law , yes of course we be commit to international law and proud to uphold it , and I be pleased to hear he say so . that be once the proud position of his party as well . sadly , that be no long the case . on the stabilisation force , the term of reference be still be draw up . there be a United Nations Security Council resolution on the establishment of the force , or I hope there will be , but the wide term of reference be not yet agree . I will bear in mind what he have say . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and add my congratulation to he , the National Security Adviser and all his Ministers on the month and month of work that they have do that have contribute to this — it be so generously acknowledge by the US envoy to the middle east , if not by the Leader of the Opposition . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that , as work towards a just peace continue apace , the principle of Gazans for Gaza , whether that be in the governance arrangement or in reconstruction , must apply ? I acknowledge my hon . friend ' s championing work on this issue , and I agree with she that we must now all work towards a viable palestinian state alongside a safe and secure Israel as the only way in which we will have last peace . I want to feel happy this week , but I find it impossible , because with so much destruction , so much devastation and so many life lose , I look back over the last two year and ask the question , what on earth be it all for ? but history teach we that from the depth of such despair can often launch a positive future . there be only one way to achieve the everlasting peace that President Trump so rightly talk about : that be a two - state solution — Israelis and Palestinians live side by side in dignity and security . I would like to thank this Government for recognise the state of Palestine . that be a promise make to my great - grandfather finally make good , but it be an empty promise unless it be follow by statehood , so my question to the Prime Minister be simply , will he make the palestinian state a reality , and will he give it his personal attention over the course of his premiership , so that this be the last time we see this devastation ? we do not want to see a repeat of that cycle of violence that we have always see in the past . I first acknowledge the impact that this have have on the hon . member , her family and her extended family . that be evidence of the despair that she rightly describe , and we must , from the depth of that despair , build a well future . I do believe that that will be last only if we have a two - state outcome . we have see too often in the past what appear to be a step forward and what be rightly see as a point of relief , only for thing to fall back . I give my personal commitment that we will work tirelessly to ensure that this time we build on the signing of the agreement yesterday , through all the work that be go to have to be do along the way , until we get to that final last solution , which will have to be a two - state solution . I thank the Prime Minister for update the House on the three point . I join he in his condemnation of the antisemitic terrorist attack in Manchester and the arson attack on the Peacehaven mosque , and I welcome his commitment to fight hatred in all its form and the support provide for security at synagogue and mosque . I ask the Prime Minister to ensure that security at all our place of worship remain a priority . on the approach take by the Prime Minister on the middle east and the ongoing engagement with India , pragmatic engagement have be show to be the correct approach . do he agree that the british value of democracy , respect , internationalism and perseverance be go to be key to the ongoing work require to deliver a two - state solution , but also far economic progress and trade deal that will benefit the people of the UK ? I agree with my hon . friend . we must provide the security need at all our place of worship . I know that across the House , people will be sadden and concern to know that some of our place of worship require the sort of security that we be see today . that be something we must all work to alleviate . that be partly a question of put in more resource , but it be much big than that in term of the change that we need to bring about . I do believe that the approach that we be take of diplomacy , stick to our value and be in the room to argue be of benefit to this country in relation not only to the middle east but to India and the wide world . after the horror of Manchester , there be a sense of joy and relief in synagogue in my constituency at the final release of the hostage , many of whom be sponsor by synagogue , but there be also a sense of trepidation when they see Hamas terrorist patrol the street of Gaza and carry out summary execution , so I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment that Hamas can have no role in Gaza . while he be on the issue of islamic extremism , do he agree that now be the time to review the UK Government ' s approach to the Muslim Brotherhood , which have be ban in many other country , such as the United Arab Emirates ? I join the right hon . gentleman in note the feeling of trepidation , because I think that across the country we can all feel the trepidation and fear follow the terrible impact that the Manchester attack have on all our community , but the jewish community in particular . I absolutely assert and be clear that Hamas must play no role whatsoever . that be why it be so important that we work with our international ally on the follow - through from what happen yesterday — aid , security and make sure that the step be in place to move on at speed — and that be the big risk , frankly , to this agreement : that we be not able to move sufficiently quickly on those important issue . we do keep the Muslim Brotherhood question under constant review . I welcome this long - overdue ceasefire and phase one of this peace plan . the devastating number of Palestinians kill , include more than 18 , 400 child , be intolerable , and countless other have life - change injury . the devastation we have witness happen as a result of previous bombardment happen without any accountability ; those atrocity be awful . what action will be take to ensure that this time , justice and accountability — for the destruction of Gazan civilian ' infrastructure , for the man - make famine and for the mass killing of civilian — be make a reality ? the immediate focus be obviously on follow through on the agreement , with the practical next step ; I do think that be of first importance . I reiterate again our commitment to international law and to accountability , include , of course , accountability for what happen on 7 October , which be the bad single attack on Jews since the Holocaust . we all welcome the release of the hostage , the ceasefire and the beginning of the end of the suffering in Gaza . I know the joy that the hostage family I meet a couple of week ago in Israel will be feel ; they will be ecstatic . as we hope that the division start to reduce in the middle east , we must also hope that we can reduce the heat and division of this debate here in the United Kingdom . the Prime Minister have quite rightly refer to the rise of antisemitism . do he join I in hope that now be the time to bring to an end the protest we have see on our street , with antisemitic chant such as , " from the river to the sea , " as we try to unify , to bring people together and to move forwards ? I agree that we need to take this moment to work to bring all our community together . I be genuinely sadden to see some of the protest take place in Whitehall on the very day of the Manchester attack and then again at the weekend , notwithstanding the quite reasonable request , " please exercise your right of freedom of expression on a different day , in a different way . " I genuinely think that human decency would prevail there . I agree with the hon . member that now be the time internationally to work on the agreement and , in the United Kingdom , to do everything we can across this House to bring our community together . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , which we all hope will bring an end to two year of awful bloodshed . I visit Israel and Palestine one month before 7 October and meet civil society organisation work on a cross - community basis . it strike I how vital they will be in build a potential future long - term peace , but they lack funding and they lack legitimacy and support in Israel and in Palestine . what thought and consideration have the Prime Minister give to the UK ' s role in an international peace fund , similar to the Northern Ireland peace fund , which could fund civil society organisation work cross - community to support leader of the future , to build peacemaker and to start to heal the rift ? I thank my hon . friend for touch on this point . one of the great tragedy of what happen on 7 October be that that cross - community work — particularly involve the next generation in Israel and Palestine , try to ensure that they would have a well future and could take thing forward — fall away , as do some of the interfaith work in this country , which we all think be strong and more robust than it turn out to be . we must do all we can to restore that work and build on it , because it be essential as we go forward . we all welcome the peace in the middle east and I do not think there be a Member here who do not welcome a two - state solution , but there be concern across this House about Hamas lead one of those state , when their fundamental goal be to drive the other state into the sea and have a total eradication of that race . that hatred have be translate to the street of London and the UK . it be affect our british Jews every single day , and they be afraid . what will the Prime Minister do to alleviate the level of antisemitism that be transfer to the street of London and Manchester , and across the UK , because of a war that have happen in the middle east ? can we rise above this , and will the Prime Minister rise above this and find a way forward for british Jews here in the UK ? I absolutely agree with the hon . member . there can be no way that Hamas can play any role in a palestinian state . that be the absolute red line of all those that recognise Palestine early this year , and the red line of the New York declaration . it be a really important and fundamental red line that have to be keep to — for all the reason that she have set out and that I think everybody across this House understand . on the security and safety of Jews in this country , of course we must step up . that need to be do in a number of way , include through practical support and financial support . sad though it be to say that we need to put even more security around our synagogue and school , so that child can go safely to school in this country , we must do it . the Government have already be work on that for some considerable time . I take the time , on the day after the Manchester attack , to talk to the Community Security Trust and other leader about what more we can do in that regard . I be more than happy to work across the House on this ; we owe it to our jewish community that we be see to be work together on these important measure , and I thank the hon . member for her support . may I first associate myself with the comment of the Prime Minister regard the heinous attack in Manchester and on Peacehaven mosque ? an attack on any place of worship be an attack on our democracy and way of life . I thank the Prime Minister , his team — in particular , his Ministers — and our National Security Adviser for all their effort and for the recognition of Palestine . as be state early , it be long overdue and , historically , put right what we should have do a long time ago . that have no doubt contribute to where we be today , so I once again want to say a huge thank you . over 92 % of home in Gaza have be erase , with more than 730 , 000 people displace , include 520 , 000 child , could the Prime Minister outline in detail what more be be do to rebuild Gaza in addition to aid and to our conversation ? reconstruction be a really important task . it will be extremely difficult , give the level of devastation . we be work with other on a plan — we be host a conference later this week in relation to that issue — and we will continue to do so , but we need to do so at pace , work with our ally . we have a huge task ahead of we . the ceasefire , the release of the live hostage and the flooding of aid into Gaza be a moment of hope for we all . the Prime Minister have respond to a number of question on accountability , and he will know the importance of this moment for start to gather evidence about what have take place in Gaza — both the atrocity commit by Hamas and the action of the IDF and the mercenary work for the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation under direction of the israeli Cabinet . can the Prime Minister spell out in a little more detail what support the UK Government be give to those agency that will gather the evidence that will allow for full accountability in future ? I thank the hon . member for championing and raise these important issue . it be important that , as we move on from the agreement and rebuild , there be accountability . that be why it be important that the medium and other be allow access as soon as possible , and that those charge with hold other to account have what they need in order to do so . I know I speak for my whole constituency when I welcome this long - overdue ceasefire . may I put on the record my thank to the Prime Minister and Foreign Office Ministers for the many opportunity to put my constituent ' view to they ? as we turn to the ceasefire , our thought turn to rebuilding , but that be not just physical . child make up 50 % of the population of Gaza . they be traumatise , and their education and future have be profoundly disrupt . give they a future be the good guarantor of future peace , so what can the British Government do to ensure that the child of Gaza have a real future ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point . child in Gaza have not be to school for the good part of two year — that have have a huge impact . we be already work at pace with other to see how quickly that could be one of the first issue address in the rebuilding process , because it be so essential for those child to ensure that they have a well future . the Prime Minister have say again today that there can be no place for Hamas in govern the Gaza strip , but who can physically prevent Hamas from retain their weapon and regain control , as they do in 2006 ? when he talk about antisemitism in Britain , be there any other interpretation of the demand to internationalise the intifada than as a call to attack jewish community around the world ? there be no other interpretation . I be pleased that the right hon . member raise , and give I the opportunity to agree with he on , that important point . on his first point about decommissioning , of course that will be difficult , but it be vital . it be difficult in Northern Ireland in relation to the IRA , but it be vital . it be why we have say that we stand ready , base on our experience in Northern Ireland , to help with the decommissioning process . I will not pretend that it be easy , but it be extremely important . I suspect that one reason our optimism be cautious be that many of we be acutely aware that the damage that have be do will last a generation — on all side of the conflict . for some , the damage can never be repair . I think yesterday of my constituent Sharone Lifschitz , whose father , Oded , be brutally murder by Hamas . he have spend his life drive ambulance across the border for Gazan child because he want a two - state solution . the Prime Minister speak of the evacuation . I be very proud to have work with Project Pure Hope , which be the first organisation to get child out of Gaza and to the United Kingdom for medical treatment . now we have a scheme , but many more people continue to need assistance — the sort that medical team in the United Kingdom can provide . will he update we on the commitment to that scheme , how long it will be , and how we in this House can make that Oded ' s legacy ? we be evacuate and have plan to continue do so . I be happy to update the House — either myself or through other Ministers — on what we be do and how we be do it . the DUP welcome the release of the hostage and the prospect of long - term peace in that area of the middle east . I know this will probably stick in the throat of many Labour Members , but we must thank President Trump for the role he have play in deliver this deal . he recognise that weakness will never move terrorist and that only strength will do so — a lesson that , unfortunately , our Government need to learn . Hamas be encourage by our Government ' s recognition of the palestinian state . that lesson need to be apply at the next step . the Prime Minister have rightly say that Hamas can have no role in the future of Gaza . what step do he intend to take to ensure that Hamas do not have the gun that enable they to have control , that they relinquish that control , and that they can never again use Gaza as a launch pad for their terrorist attack ? the right hon . Member will know that I have thank President Trump a number of time . I be absolutely clear that but for President Trump , this peace agreement would not have be reach . I have have the opportunity to say that to he publicly as well as privately — as the House know , he and I get along , and that be good for our relationship with the US and our ability to influence event . Decommissioning be such a serious issue . it be very hard to see how there can be last peace unless Hamas be rid of their weaponry and capability . that be where the decommissioning work will be hugely important . it be part of the 20 - point plan . it now need to be turn into real action , work with other . the United Kingdom have — sadly , in some sense — experience of the challenge of decommissioning , which we can bring to the table . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and , of course , the peace deal . I also welcome his crystal clear statement that there can be no last peace or viable palestinian state in which Hamas be involve in any way . similarly , there can be no last peace without the reconstruction that be now desperately need . the Prime Minister have say on a couple of occasion today that the public will be surprised when they see the extent of the devastation that have take place . right now , 400 , 000 tonne of rubble need to be remove before a single bit of reconstruction can take place . will he reject the isolationist call from some quarter and agree that this country will rightly play its full role in ensure that reconstruction take place ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . I genuinely think that that be the position that most member across the House would want the Government to take and that they would support it . I very much welcome the release of the hostage and what the Prime Minister say about aid . however , flood Gaza with aid be not an end in itself ; this be about its distribution to those who need it most . what reassurance can he give the House that gangster and criminal gang will not play any part as intermediary in the distribution of that aid ? I thank the right hon . member for raise that . first , let we be clear : aid be not flood in today ; it be begin to go in today . it need to flood in , but it be not flood in yet . we need to get it in . he be absolutely right that distribution then become a critical next issue . that be why we be work with other on what security arrangement need to be in place as soon as possible in Gaza , to ensure that aid get to where it need to be . volume , speed and effective distribution be absolutely key . we be work with other to ensure that we play our part in that . in September of last year , the Government announce that they have suspend 30 arm export licence for Israel , with around 350 licence remain active . the Government have repeatedly say that they be block the sale of item for use in Israel ' s military assault in Gaza , but a new Channel 4 report have find that Israel import nearly £ 1 million of UK munition in the first nine month of this year , with a total of 110 , 000 item categorise as bullet go from the UK to Israel in August alone . will the Prime Minister confirm whether UK - make munition be use in Israel ' s military assault in Gaza , and do he agree that a world of justice and last peace must be one without those bullet and bomb ? the Government ' s position in relation to ban arm have be set out on many occasion and have not be alter . I warmly welcome the ceasefire and be deeply move , as I be sure we all be , by the scene of israeli and palestinian family be reunite yesterday . one palestinian prisoner who have not be release be Mr Marwan Barghouti , a Member of the Palestinian Legislative Council who have be in prison since 2002 . he do not have a fair trial and be subject to human right abuse . what representation have the Government make in the past few day to secure the release of Mr Barghouti , give his widespread popularity as a unifying voice for palestinian right , dignity and freedom , and therefore his potential crucial role in secure a meaningful and lasting peace in the region ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that individual case . I offer to provide she with further information on it as soon as we can . I deeply welcome this long - await ceasefire and the release of the hostage . I thank the Prime Minister and his Ministers for their tireless work and international leadership on this front , include in the upcoming Gaza recovery summit , which be to be hold in the UK later this week . I be glad to hear of the Prime Minister ' s commitment to reconstruction and aid . I note that recent report of the UN commission of inquiry describe how the obstruction of aid get into Gaza have lead to what it call the " destruction of Palestinians " . what be the current situation for UN agency ' access to Gaza , and what can we do to ensure that aid flow freely ? Tom Fletcher be lead our work in relation to this , and we have be clear throughout that aid can not get in at the scale and volume that be need without the UN . that be why we have always champion and say that the UN should be part of that distribution . it be fitting that this statement be follow by one on Northern Ireland . the UK have world - lead experience in sustain peace , whether it be security , intelligence or military , and whether it be decommissioning , police or political institution . could I urge the Prime Minister to do an audit of the generation of civil servant and , dare I say , special adviser who have experience in this area and put they on offer , to sustain this peace deal ? I thank the right hon . member for that suggestion . I also want to acknowledge his role in Northern Ireland . he be rightly hold in high respect in Northern Ireland and across this House and continue to be , because of what he do and the way in which he go about it ; that should be a model for so many more of we in this House . the idea of reach into the expertise we have across different party and different government be one that I will take up , so I thank he for that suggestion . I very much welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , and we all achingly welcome the long - for ceasefire in Gaza and the safe return of prisoner and hostage , but do the Prime Minister share my concern that the 20 - point plan be without palestinian input ? will he acknowledge the need for palestinian self - determination and their consent for any governance or stabilisation arrangement ? will he ensure the continue pursuit of war criminal , and will he work to achieve an end to Israel ' s illegal occupation of all palestinian territory and the full engagement of a sovereign palestinian state ? can I just be clear on the 20 - point plan ? it be widely and warmly receive by so many country yesterday . my hon . friend will have see the representation at the summit in Egypt yesterday include the Palestinian Authority . it be really important that when we get an achievement like this , we now focus on implement it rather than try to unpick it . I think across this House , by and large , there be agreement that there will not be last peace without a two - state solution . we must therefore act to implement the 20 - point plan , but we must also — as the plan itself envisage — work towards a two - state solution and not lose sight of that goal . the image of ceasefire and family reunite be deeply heartening and a moment of relief and celebration amid such immense suffering , yet this fragile peace remain vulnerable , particularly to the corrosive effect of misinformation . true and lasting peace must be build on openness , transparency and the free flow of information . what step be the Prime Minister take to press Israel to grant journalist access to Gaza as part of a broad commitment to truth , accountability and a just peace ? I agree with the hon . member that the situation be vulnerable , and that be why we must not lose sight of what have to happen next . we be press for medium access , which be hugely important and need to happen as soon as possible , in my view , so that the extent of the devastation can be properly assess , which will help with the necessary next step . as an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on Christianity in the holy land , I be fortunate enough to be on a delegation in Jerusalem and the west bank last week , and it be clear to our delegation from speak to palestinian Christians that they be deliver hospital and school for palestinian community . give that education and healthcare be a key part of long - term peace , what conversation be the Government have with the christian community in Israel and Palestine to ensure that they be part of the conversation as well ? we be have conversation with all , particularly on the question of education and healthcare — on many other issue as well , but education and healthcare be absolutely fundamental . we be have those discussion , and I will ensure that any further information my hon . friend may have be feed into what we be do . the Hamas leadership be make it clear that their fighter , many of whom will have be involve on 7 October , will not disband but will merge into the nascent army of a palestinian state — a state which the Prime Minister unwisely and prematurely recognise . be he comfortable with that ? the 20 - point plan be really clear on the step that need to be take . that be what have be hammer out with the support and approval of so many country . that be not easy , but it be a step that many thought be unachievable . we now have to operate to that plan , ensure , as be absolutely clear from the plan and from all our statement , that Hamas can have absolutely no role in the governance of Palestine . that be a clear red line . we need to operate to the 20 - point plan now . the widespread agreement to it be something many people think could not be achieve . it have be achieve , and now we must build on that . I associate myself with the remark of the Prime Minister on the awful attack in Manchester and the attack in Peacehaven . I want to highlight the issue of aid worker and the work of UNRWA with many british aid organisation include Oxfam , and christian aid and Islamic Relief , which be both base in my constituency . the UN have highlight that to date , over 500 aid worker have lose their life , include british aid worker . we must recognise the hard work that aid worker be do . the Prime Minister have be very clear — and we be unite in this House — that Hamas must not have any role in the rebuilding of Gaza . it have to be lead by palestinian civil society and the community who have face decade of siege , occupation and military violence . do the Prime Minister agree that any initiative that bypass the Palestinians in favour of externally impose initiative will fail ? first and foremost , I thank my hon . friend for raise the specific issue of the aid worker who have lose their life in this conflict . very many life have be lose . almost all aid worker have lose colleague , friend and family member ; I have hear some of that testimony at first hand , and it be extremely powerful . this must now be a process that do involve Palestinians in their own future — of course it must . that be the only way to get to the two - state solution that we need . like everyone else in this House , I be sure , I feel enormous relief at the fact that a ceasefire have be achieve , but that can be nothing compare with the relief feel by those israeli family who think they would never see their love one again and those thousand of child in Gaza who be able to sleep last night without the fear of be bomb . but we have be here before , and for their sake we can not let the hope of today disappear in the same way that the promise of the Oslo agreement do . crucial to that will be confidence in the peace process . the Prime Minister have allude to the lesson we can bring to that process from Northern Ireland . one of they be on decommissioning . can he tell we what support the US Administration will offer to allow we to use that expertise and experience ? I thank the hon . member . there be huge relief , but she be absolutely right : the relief for the hostage and their family and for civilian in Gaza be huge by comparison to ours . yes , we have be here before , and therefore we must drive through with confidence . as to the specific way in which decommissioning might work , we be at the early stage of that discussion with the US and other . at this stage , we simply say we stand ready to play our full part . I think and hope we will be take up on that , and then we can work actively with other . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement today and also for this peace — may it be long lasting . over 1 , 700 health worker have lose their life in Gaza , and many more have be physically and psychologically traumatise by the conflict . there be not the health worker now to provide the healthcare that be urgently need at this time . will he ensure that the UK play its part in provide healthcare to Gaza , and with the decimation of all the university in Gaza , can we also play a part in train the healthcare worker of the future ? I thank the hon . Lady for make that important point . we be work with other : the Foreign Secretary attend a conference in Paris last week where on the agenda , among other thing , be how we can support the restoration of healthcare , which be vital . as we do that , we will update the House on the measure that we be take . over the past two year , as co - Chair of the all - party parliamentary group on UK - Israel , I have host innumerable meeting where the family of hostage have come before we plead for our support and help . in addition , we have screen multiple film of the terror event on 7 October 2023 that use real - life footage capture from Hamas terrorist . as my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) say , the jewish community in this country feel unsafe and that this be not a safe place to live any more . the Prime Minister rightly allude to the grow rise in antisemitism in this country . what will he do on a concrete basis to eliminate that scourge , in particular at our place of education , include at university , so that our jewish student feel safe on campus , and at all our school , so that young people grow up in this country be no long expose to antisemitism ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that point . it be important that we rise to that challenge and ensure that our jewish community feel safe , secure and part of who we be in this country . that require concrete step in relation to security and safety measure . we need to go far on education , particularly but not only in our university . although he do not mention it , I be sure the hon . Gentleman know that we need to ensure that we drive out any instance of antisemitism in the NHS . I look forward to work with member from across the House on all those initiative , because we also need to ensure that our jewish community see that this House be unite in ensure that they have the safety and security that they deserve . I very much welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement today . after two year of relentless genocide commit by Israel , kill many ten of thousand of innocent people , a ceasefire be an historic and hopeful moment , even though it take far too long to achieve . watch release Palestinians and Israelis reunite with their family yesterday be deeply move , but Palestinians be far from free . their right be still be deny , they be still live under occupation and they will continue to suffer . do the Prime Minister agree that Palestinians must be able to exercise their right to self - determination and that Israel must face accountability for its crime against they ? what action will he take to make that a reality ? I agree that there will be no last peace without a two - state outcome , and that be why we must continue to strive towards it . of course there must be accountability for all those who have commit atrocity , include those who be involve on 7 October . do the Prime Minister agree that real and lasting peace can only be achieve if there be accountability and justice ? overwhelming international consensus , both legal and scholarly , conclude that Israel ' s action in Gaza be genocidal . do the Prime Minister agree that the perpetrator of genocide must face justice ? what step will this Government take to ensure that justice be achieve ? I agree that accountability and justice be important in the middle east . we be strong supporter of international law and the role that that need to play in relation to justice in the region . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement today , and I welcome the ceasefire and the release of hostage as part of this historic but fragile peace deal . I also welcome the release of palestinian woman and child who be hold in israeli military prison without trial . what step will the Government take to ensure that justice and accountability be make a reality for all victim of international law violation in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . it be important that I be clear that this Government be commit to international law and to the accountability that that bring . there be a widely hold belief that the catalyst for the pure evil that happen on 7 October be the fear among Iran and its terrorist proxy that Saudi Arabia be close to sign the Abraham accord . the good news be that the Abraham accord peace agreement , between Israel , the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain and Morocco , have endure over the past difficult two year and be a model for regional economic co - operation and peaceful co - existence in the region . on the back of yesterday ' s agreement , what concrete step will the Prime Minister take to encourage and extend the Abraham accord as a key part of the emerge picture in the middle east , with particular reference to get Saudi Arabia back to the table ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise the wide picture . the settlement across the wide middle east form an important backdrop and be part of the backbone of what have happen and what need to happen in the future . we be talk to all party about the immediate step for the Abraham accord , and also about the wide settlement , if that be possible , because that will play an important part in stabilise the region , which be what most decent and reasonable people want . the world hold its breath over the past few day as a glimmer of hope be on the horizon . I thank the Prime Minister , Ministers , the Government and british official for the progress that they have make with the United States to bring about this progress . peace will be embed and sustain only if it be build with ordinary people — Palestinians and Israelis — who yearn for peace , so what step be the Prime Minister take to ensure that that happen ? it be important to involve Israelis and Palestinians across the board , from all community , in the physical rebuilding as well as the rebuilding of the relationship that be in place just over two year ago , which hold at least the prospect of a well future for the next generation . we need to rebuild that on all front . I congratulate the Prime Minister on get we to this point . the Labour Government ' s role in decommissioning in Northern Ireland be not as complete as portray . in a memo of 17 January 2003 , an adviser to the then Prime Minister , Tony Blair , say : " the IRA will never be able to account for all their weapon or retrieve they . what we should perhaps aim for be a few more big symbolic act of decommissioning , and then declare that the process be complete … " that adviser be a certain Jonathan Powell , now the National Security Adviser . so will the Prime Minister give assurance that , should the Government be give such a role , they will not be as lax ? the work on decommissioning in Northern Ireland be really important , and that be the basis on which we have put forward our offer to stand ready with other to work on decommissioning in the middle east . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s condemnation of the horrific antisemitic terrorist attack on the Heaton Park synagogue and the arson attack in Peacehaven . the Prime Minister emphasise the UK ' s commitment to humanitarian support . while we all welcome the ceasefire , we know that the humanitarian crisis be still very much ongoing . will the Prime Minister confirm what extra monitoring , new mechanism and assurance he be seek to ensure that party on the ground be able to get essential aid to every single person who need it within Gaza ? we be have conversation about the practical measure that can be take on the ground with other , particularly the Jordanians , in term of the physical arrangement that they think need to be in place to allow the aid in and for it then to be dissipate at pace . we be work tirelessly on that project at the moment . I associate myself with comment on the warm and welcome news of the ceasefire , and I hope it lead to a last peace . what assurance have the Prime Minister receive from neighbouring partner , particularly Egypt , and what specific action will he take , first to ensure that humanitarian aid can reach Gaza and , secondly , that it be only humanitarian that reach Gaza , and that weapon , personnel and mat é riel that could aid terrorist do not enter Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman make a really good point . the basis on which we be have our discussion be that it must be humanitarian aid — humanitarian in the sense that it be genuinely for that purpose , and that it be get to the people who most need it . that come down to the nut and bolt of the practical arrangement on the ground with some of the neighbouring country , and those be the discussion that we be have . I do not think anybody could fail to be move by yesterday ' s scene of hostage finally be reunite with their family and of Gazans be able to contemplate day and night without hunger and bombardment . I would love to be able to celebrate and believe , as they be do and as they should be give the space to do , but like many I be anxious , because we know that a ceasefire be not the same as a last peace . can the Prime Minister assure my constituent that the UK Government will continue to pursue accountability for past crime ; that building and rebuilding will be do with survivor , not over the top of they ; and that there will continue to be justice for those who face aggression in the west bank every day ? let I be clear : in the rebuilding that must go on , there have to be the bringing together of community and also the accountability and justice that be necessary for a full rebuilding towards a last settlement . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment to flood Gaza with aid . the UN estimate that $ 4 billion be need this year to address the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , of which just 28 % have be pledge . the UK ' s contribution to humanitarian relief this year will total only $ 116 million , so with the entire population of Gaza in need of some form of humanitarian assistance , do the Prime Minister believe that the UK ' s contribution to Gaza ' s relief be adequate ? we have make a significant contribution . as we go forward , we be look at public and private commitment to the reconstruction project that need to take place — not just the aid , but the rebuilding . that be a huge challenge that face we all , and we will rise to that challenge with other . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , and I hugely welcome the ceasefire and the initial Gaza peace plan , include the release of hostage and prisoner , the stopping of the bombardment of Gaza and the aid start to trickle in . however , peace be fragile , so can the Prime Minister reassure the House of this Government ' s long - term commitment to work with international partner to support the rebuilding of Gaza — physically and politically — to ensure a last peace and a pathway to palestinian statehood ? I can give my hon . friend that important assurance , and I thank she for her question . this ceasefire be tremendous news , and I sincerely congratulate everybody who be involve in bring it about , whoever they be , include the British Government . I be in Israel last week , and on the day that the ceasefire be announce , I visit the Nova festival site and speak to civilian and soldier on the Gaza border . the Israelis I speak to be deeply dismay that the British Government have decide to recognise the state of Palestine before Hamas have release their hostage , let alone disarm . do the Prime Minister understand why Israel can not tolerate the idea of a state on its border that pose a security risk to its citizen , and will he undertake not to move forward to support the establishment of a palestinian state until there be more than a promise — there be actually the reality of security for Israel ? the term on which we recognise Palestine , and those on which all the country that recently recognise Palestine do so , expressly acknowledge that Hamas can play no part in its governance . that be at the heart of the New York declaration as well , and it be absolutely part of the 20 - point plan . it be really important that we assert that and reassert it . that have be the constant position of this Government and my personal position , so I can give the hon . member that reassurance . I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , particularly his commitment to seek a lasting , long - term peace in the region , because Israel will not be secure and the palestinian people will not be free until we break this endless cycle of violence . turn to the immediate situation on the ground , the Gazans still face a man - make famine , so I really welcome the flooding - in of aid that the Prime Minister talk about in his statement . however , could he say a little more about the timescale for that , and how soon we can start to see that aid get in and have an effect on the ground ? we need it to go in today , tomorrow and in the come day — we can not delay on that front . that be among the most essential task that lie ahead , particularly in relation to the man - make famine . I add my support for yesterday ' s ceasefire and the first tentative step on the journey to peace . President Trump have speak about a board of peace , and one of the name that have be float for membership of that board be our former Prime Minister , Sir Tony Blair . could the Prime Minister confirm whether Sir Tony Blair , if he be to take a seat on the board , would do so as a private citizen or as a representative of his Majesty ' s Government , and what role can this House play in scrutinise any future appointment and the progress of that board ? the board be an important part of the architecture . it be for other to decide what its membership will be , but I can give the commitment that we will report to the House on any development in that regard . it be a huge relief to all of we that the hostage be sleep at home with their family , where they belong , after two year of unimaginable horror . however , this plan and the recognition of Palestine must only be the start of peace and accountability . child be die from a man - make famine , so can the Prime Minister please assure we that we will flood Gaza with aid and continue to respect the judgment and decision of international court and tribunal ? I can give my hon . friend our assurance on both those issue . I welcome the ceasefire and the release of the hostage , and I take solace in the knowledge — or at least in the hope — that unlike other debate of this nature , at the end of this one countless palestinian child will not have be kill by the IDF . however , do the Prime Minister agree that the people of Gaza do not need a colonial viceroy , Tony Blair , anywhere near determine their future ? the former Prime Minister , who have be in meeting with the Trump Administration , be propose a US - administer Gaza , rebuild Gaza as a resort on top of the mass grave of man , woman and child . will the Prime Minister condemn this plan and Tony Blair ' s involvement in rebuild ? I be not go to condemn a plan that I welcome yesterday . I think it be a really important step forward — it be a step that almost everybody in this House have welcome , include the hon . member . what be important now be that we build on that plan . it will be for other to decide the particular representation , but of course there be the committee , which will be really important in relation to the day - to - day matter in Gaza and on which there must of course be proper palestinian representation . these matter be still to be determine , but I really think it would be well if we do not try to unpick where we get to yesterday before we have even start to implement it and try to move forward . that would inevitably take we backwards . we know that humanitarian aid save life , rebuild life and play a crucial stabilise role , so I thank the Prime Minister for his emphasis on get aid into Gaza . it have be hearten to hear from the UN agency that be now cross the border for the first time since March , get in vital supply such as cook gas and medicine . however , some non - governmental organisation , include british NGOs , be still struggle to get the permission they need to operate , so what more will the Prime Minister do to ensure that these immediate humanitarian relief effort become a sustained , scale - up part of Gaza ' s recovery , and that our british NGOs can also play their full part ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . I can reassure she that we be raise that issue with partner , for all the reason she have set out . as the Prime Minister and President Trump get along , do the Prime Minister think he can secure President Trump ' s support for genuine progress towards secure a two - state solution , which be the only path to ensure peace , security and dignity for both Israelis and Palestinians ? I certainly agree that be the only path , and we be of course talk to our ally about it , include our american ally , in the way that the hon . Member would expect : as trust , respected partner try to address one of the most intractable problem in recent history . we will continue to do so . like other , I welcome the ceasefire and the return of hostage to their family , but that be very much temper by the loss of thousand of life over these past two year — love one who will never return home . elect representative , humanitarian organisation and individual across the world , include our constituent , have give voice to the plight of the people of Gaza these past two year . can the Prime Minister tell I what effort will be make to ensure that its people will be safe and free to shape the future of Gaza , and that their voice will be hear in the month and year to come ? I thank my hon . friend for remind we that however welcome the news , it be temper by the loss over the past two year in Gaza and in Israel . it be essential that the voice of those most affect by this be hear and be part of the rebuild that be now necessary . I gladly join in the tribute of appreciation to all , include President Trump , who make the long - await release of the hostage a reality yesterday . may I press the Prime Minister on the disarming of Hamas ? for the Prime Minister , be that wholly non - negotiable ? how be it to be deliver ? if it be not deliver in totality , where do that leave this nation ? we would have recognise a Palestine that then would have a continue presence of an armed and control Hamas . disarmament must be non - negotiable , and that be why it be write into the 20 - point plan , and it be why we be now put ourselves forward to play a part in the decommissioning . it be only by decommission that we can ensure that the threat from Hamas be remove . that be why it be in the plan , and it be why we want to play our full part . we will do everything we can with other ally to bring that about . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and I welcome an end to the killing in Gaza . what guarantee be in place to ensure that humanitarian aid can now reach Gaza without interruption ? will that aid be independent of the whim of the israeli Government or any other actor on the ground ? we be do all we can to ensure that be the case , because it be important , for all the reason that she well understand . that now involve the practical measure , work with other country to ensure the aid can get in at speed and at volume . it be begin to go in , but it be by no mean in the right volume or at the right speed even now , after the agreement . that be what we need to focus on . I associate myself with the tribute pay to Lord Campbell across the House , and I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . I also welcome the release of all hostage and several hundred palestinian detainee , but we must remember that more than 10 , 000 captive — some prisoner , but many hold without charge — be still hold in israeli prison . I hope that the Government will work towards the release of the innocent be hold . the rebuilding and the interim and final governance of Gaza must be Palestinian - lead , not lead by western actor . the Palestinians have suffer over two year of relentless genocide and decade of israeli siege , occupation , military violence and oppression . I totally agree with the position that Hamas must play no role in the future governance of Palestine , and there be no excuse for what happen on 7 October , but one of the root cause that be prevent a two - state solution from become reality be the unlawful — order . will the hon . Gentleman please get to his question ? will the Prime Minister confirm to the House when the Government will be in full compliance with the International Court of Justice advisory opinion on not do anything that help perpetuate the unlawful occupation ? we will come back to the House on that . we proudly uphold international law . the Prime Minister ' s statement on the middle east include a celebration of our newly form relationship and trade deal with India . do his discussion with Prime Minister Modi last week also include raise the case of my West Dunbartonshire constituent Jagtar Singh Johal ? if so , do the Prime Minister insist upon Jagtar ' s immediate release and return home to his family in Dumbarton ? he have be arbitrarily detain for eight year in India . enough be enough . Prime Minister , it be time to bring he home . I thank my hon . friend for his question and his work on this case . yes , I do raise it with Prime Minister Modi . UK official regularly raise it , and the Foreign Secretary will be meet Jagtar ' s family in the come week , and we will keep my hon . Friend update . we very much welcome the news that there be a ceasefire and that the hostage have finally be return home after two long year in unimaginable condition . the smile on the face of family member be a joy to behold . while President Trump deserve much credit for the peace deal , our Prime Minister and our United Kingdom Government also deserve some credit for the role they have play in try to get to the peace . what discussion have be hold with the United States of America to ensure that Hamas terrorist ' murderous intent be stop ? Hamas have be systematically murder all those who have stand up against they since the ceasefire take place . there have be many example of execution within the Gaza township . Hamas must be destroy . what be be do to see Hamas ' s weapon remove and their influence eradicate entirely ? I wholeheartedly agree with the hon . member on the spirit and intent behind his question . Hamas be a terrorist organisation that have inflict violence and destruction on far too many individual , and they can play absolutely no part in the future . our recognition of Palestine be expressly on that basis . we will continue to work with other country to ensure that that be the situation , because it be vital that that be part of a peaceful and lasting settlement in the region . I very much welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement today , and I thank he , his ministerial team and their adviser for all the work that have be do over many month to get we to this point , where there be some hope for peace in Gaza and also for peace for Israel . in this process , as we go forward and try to build peace , can he ensure that the voice of woman , who be so often exclude from such process , be hear , and that woman be at the table when decision be be make ? my hon . friend make a very good point , and we must ensure that woman be part of the future build , and we will do so . I welcome yesterday ' s ceasefire agreement and the Prime Minister ' s statement today , and I recognise the leadership that he and his Ministers have show on this issue so tirelessly and for such a long time . we know that sustain the peace be dependent on humanitarian service scale up rapidly in Gaza , and many NGOs be struggle with Israel ' s restrictive and politicise new registration measure , which be leave many in limbo and unable to work alongside UN agency to scale up those service . what be the Prime Minister do to ensure that we address and tackle that and ensure that the need of Palestinians be meet as quickly as possible ? my hon . friend raise an important issue about some of the hurdle and barrier that be put in the way of those want to deliver aid , and we be work with other to scale up the volume and speed with which aid can get in . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . Northern Ireland Troubles with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the legacy of the trouble , which still hang heavily over the life of so many people in Northern Ireland and across the United Kingdom . the Good Friday agreement — that extraordinary act of political courage — bring peace . although its architect know that legacy would have to be deal with , they be not able to do so . this be therefore the unfinished business of that agreement , and it be why so many — too many — victim and survivor be still wait for answer about what exactly happen to those whom they love so much . the previous Government ' s Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 fail to win support in Northern Ireland , fail to comply with our international human right obligation and be undeliverable . whatever its intention , it be no basis for try to move forward . that be why the Government be today introduce new primary legislation and lay a draft remedial order under the Human Rights Act as we seek to fulfil our king ' s Speech commitment to repeal and replace the legacy Act . this legislation will give effect to the framework that I announce with the Irish Government on 19 September , which reflect the principle of the Stormont House agreement and contain sovereign commitment by both the UK and irish Governments . the new trouble Bill will reform the independent commission , to be rename the legacy commission , give it statutory oversight to provide accountability and confidence , and — learn from Operation Kenova — a statutory victim and survivor advisory group . it will significantly strengthen the governance of the commission , with two co - director of investigation , statutory conflict of interest duty , and appointment make only follow independent advice . it will enhance the investigative power of the commission and put in place a fair disclosure regime , ensure that the commission have the power that it need to find answer for family and can make public the maximum possible information , consistent with the state ' s responsibility to protect life and national security . the Bill will fulfil the commitment that we have make to restore the small number of trouble - relate inquest that be stop in their track by the legacy Act , and refer the other inquest that have not yet commence to the Solicitor General for independent consideration of whether , in each case , they be deal with most appropriately by the reform legacy commission or via the coronial system . it will enable the reform commission to hold new proceeding in case that be transfer to it from the coronial system . consistent with the provision in the Inquiries Act 2005 , that will provide for public hearing , the consideration of sensitive information in closed hearing , and effective next - of - kin participation , include participation through legal representation . we will also address in the Bill , rather than in the remedial order , the UK Supreme Court ruling in the Adams interim custody order case regard the application of the Carltona principle . we must put beyond doubt Parliament ' s intention by clarify the fact that the relevant legislation allow such order to be make by junior Ministers as well as by the Secretary of State . we owe a huge debt of gratitude to the 250 , 000 Northern Ireland veteran who serve with honour and distinction to keep people safe , and who work with the police and other emergency service in the most difficult circumstance imaginable . their service and their sacrifice will never be forget . that be why , have work closely with the Defence Secretary and the Armed Forces Minister , the Government be introduce strong safeguard for veteran that respond directly to the concern that have be express to we . those safeguard will also apply to other people , such as former police officer . they will mean that no witness will need to travel to Northern Ireland to engage with legacy mechanism . they will have a right to do so remotely , because coroner and judge in the commission will be legally require to allow it , and support for veteran will be available to assist they in that regard . the commission will be under a duty not to duplicate aspect of any previous investigation unless there be compelling reason that make it essential . the welfare of veteran will be give proper consideration as part of any assessment of whether they be require to give evidence , and that will include the right of veteran to seek anonymity when do so . our protection will not be limit to legislation . any contact with veteran will be facilitate through the Ministry of Defence , protect veteran from cold calling , and veteran will not be require to rehearse the historical context surround incident when such information can be obtain from other source , include the Ministry of Defence . these measure will provide what the three UK veteran ' commissioner have call for : not immunity from the law , but fairness under it . the remedial order , which I be also lay today , will remove the last government ' s much - criticise immunity scheme , which offer false promise , be never introduce , and would have enable those who have commit the most appalling terrorist crime to be grant immunity from prosecution — the principal reason why the Act be so strongly oppose in Northern Ireland — and it will lift the current prohibition on trouble - relate civil proceeding . I be grateful to the t á naiste , Simon Harris , and his team for their open and constructive approach in reach the framework agreement , which recognise that help family affect by the trouble be a shared responsibility . that be why the joint framework contain specific and unprecedented commitment by the Irish Government to facilitate the full possible co - operation of the irish authority with a reform legacy commission , to establish a dedicated unit within an Garda S í och á na to deal with trouble - relate case , which will include investigate all outstanding case in Ireland , and to make a financial contribution of € 25 million to help fund legacy mechanism . that is , of course , in addition to the £ 250 million already commit by the UK Government . where require , legislation will be introduce by the Irish Government to implement those commitment . we be also establish with the Irish Government an independent commission on information retrieval — initially on a pilot basis — to give family an additional mean of obtain information . since my appointment last year , I have have many discussion with political party , victim and survivor organisation , human right group , veteran and other affect by the trouble . give the view hold by so many people — often diametrically opposed — it be always go to be impossible to set out a plan that give everyone everything that they want . there will be element of our approach that some people will welcome and other will not . I also recognise that , because of what have go before , there be a great lack of trust in all of we in the House on the part of victim and survivor . that is , unfortunately , the reality ; but it be not , and it never have be , an argument for not try to find a way forward . I hope that those who want to see a fair and effective approach to legacy that can command great support in Northern Ireland will recognise that these measure represent fundamental reform , and that they will therefore be give a chance to succeed . time wait for no one , least of all for the many family who lose love one , and they , ultimately , will be the judge of whether these new arrangement can give they the answer that they have seek for so long . I hope that we will together be able to grasp this opportunity , and so help the people of Northern Ireland to look to a future free of the burden of the past . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . the last Government legislate to draw a line under trouble - era litigation . that litigation be inevitably weight against those who seek to protect our country from terrorism . it be inevitably weight against those who keep record , and whose servicemen be easy to locate and contact . even today , vexatious claim be be make . only last week a judicial review of a 1991 case be rightly throw out by the High Court in Belfast . the judge describe the challenge as " utterly divorce from … reality " , but not before the former special force soldier at the centre of it have have to endure four year of investigation . mindful of case such as this , the last Government seek to draw a line . through their action today this Government be erase that line , and as they do so , many former servicemen will again feel , with profound unease , that the lawyer be come . I hope the House will spare a thought for they this afternoon . I know we will have a lot of time to debate the legislation that the Government be lay , but there be a number of specific question that I would like to ask the Secretary of State . first , on the resumption of inquest , will he tell the House how many inquest will be restore and how many will be refer to the Solicitor General ? can he specifically tell the House whether that list will include the 1987 Loughgall case ? secondly , civil case be to reopen . it be think that at the time of prohibition , many hundred of such case — affect perhaps thousand of people — be before the Belfast court . what be the Northern Ireland Office ' s calculation of the number of civil case that be now likely to proceed ? I ask that because there be clear financial consequence to reopen legacy in this way . the Secretary of State refer to the £ 250 million already commit — indeed , it be commit by the last government to deal with the legacy as we frame it — but it be now clear that the new legacy commission be to have a much big remit than the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery . if so , will its budget be increase ? if not , how will it be expect to function ? similarly , the Police Service of Northern Ireland have raise very serious concern about the amount of money that it will need to support reopen inquest and civil case . Policy Exchange have place the cost on the police at around £ 90 million , at a time when police number in Northern Ireland be at an all - time low . there be a very real prospect that without additional funding from the Secretary of State , frontline policing in Northern Ireland will be far reduce . can the Secretary of State make a commitment that that will not happen ? thirdly , the Government have today brief journalist that legislation will ban Gerry Adams from receive compensation for his detention in the 1970 , but the Secretary of State ' s statement make no reference to that . can he tell the House unequivocally that Mr Adams will not receive one penny of compensation ? fourthly , the Secretary of State list a number of protection for veteran in court , but it be already the case that anonymity , age - relate consideration and remote hearing be available at the discretion of the court . that be apparent to the t á naiste on 19 September , when he emphasise that no new protection would be available to veteran . do the Secretary of State agree with Mr Harris ? there have also be some confusion about whether these protection will extend to paramilitary . on 25 September , the Prime Minister claim that they will not . can the Secretary of State be definitive for the House ? lastly , there be the question of the involvement of the Republic of Ireland in legacy . this have prove deeply controversial , and I be sure that the Secretary of State will be ask question about it this afternoon . however , I be interested to see that the Republic have make commitment to get the Garda to investigate unresolved trouble - relate incident within its jurisdiction , and to legislate to enable the full possible co - operation of the relevant irish authority with the legacy commission . if that be to happen , it be to be welcome , because during the trouble the UK repeatedly seek extradition from the Republic to bring terrorist charge . in the vast majority of case , they be turn down . follow 1998 , the former Irish Justice Minister , Michael McDowell , say that the Irish Government give a de facto amnesty to the IRA . indeed , there be many instance of possible collusion between the Garda and the Provisional IRA , which have never receive the attention they deserve : Kingsmill , the murder of Ian Sproule , Bloody Friday , Teebane , La Mon — the list go on . I sincerely hope that the Republic will now engage sincerely , deeply and honestly , and I hope the Secretary of State will ensure that it do . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his response . he say that the last Government seek to draw a line , but it do not work . in the act of seek to do that — this be the one question that the now opposition have never be able to answer — they decide that they would give terrorist immunity from prosecution . [ hon . member : " no , they didn ' t ! " ] yes , that be what the last Government do , and I have never hear a justification . [ hon . member : " no , they didn ' t ! " ] yes , they do , and it do not work . it do not have support in Northern Ireland . how can Northern Ireland proceed to deal with the legacy of the trouble , when the legislation that the last Government pass have no support in Northern Ireland ? to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s specific question , nine inquest will be restore and the remain 24 will go into the sifting process . those nine inquest will include Loughgall , because the Conservative Attorney General order a new inquest into Loughgall 10 year ago — a point never refer to by the Opposition . it be one of the case that have begin , and it therefore fall within the group that will be restore . the rest will be consider by the Solicitor General in the sifting process . the number of civil case will depend on those who choose to bring they or resume they . on the psni , I say to the hon . Gentleman that prior to 1 May last year , the force have over 1 , 000 case on its book , and that be no long the case . the legacy commission , which the UK Government be fund , be now responsible for look at all case refer to it . that cost be bear by the UK Government and not by the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland . to the extent that case be no long inquest but will go to the commission , the cost will be bear by the UK Government and not by the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland . on the issue of interim custody order , as I indicate to the House a moment ago , the legislation will make it clear that the signing of those order by junior Ministers be always lawful , but we have also decide , in place a draft remedial order before the House today , that section 46 and 47 of the legacy Act will now remain in place until the provision of the Bill take effect . that will deal with the point that some people have make about avoid a gap , but we all have to recognise that section 46 and 47 prove to be an ineffective way of deal with this issue — the hon . gentleman smile , but he know that that be the case . on the protection we have bring in for veteran , we have do so with the motivation of protect veteran . on the involvement of the Republic of Ireland , I join the hon . Gentleman — a point of unity at the end — in welcome the commitment of the Irish Government to this partnership . the history of Northern Ireland teach we that a lot of progress be make when the two guarantor of the Good Friday agreement work together , and many people in Northern Ireland would like to get answer from the Garda and the irish authority . at the moment , the Irish Government be refuse to co - operate . why ? because of the last Government ' s legacy Act . I look forward to the Irish Government participate in the process in the month and year ahead . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I be pleased to see from the joint framework that the Government have listen to some of the key concern voice by stakeholder during my Committee ' s inquiry into legacy . those stakeholder will no doubt want to study the detail of the proposal that my right hon . friend be publish today . to that end , what consultation have the Government have with victim and survivor group since the joint framework be announce , and in what way have this inform the legislation lay today ? the legislation be about to be publish , but in the 14 month since I take up this post , I have have many conversation with family , victim , and the other organisation and group that I list in my statement . the Bill that the House will see be the result of that process of discussion , listening , draft and attempt to respond — not in a way that will please everyone — to the mess that this Government be leave by the last Government , who pass a piece of legislation that do not work , do not have support and be find by the court not to be compatible with our obligation in a number of respect . the question now for all those group , have see the framework agreement that we have reach with the Irish Government , be : do they feel that the legislation give effect to that , and will it enable Northern Ireland to move forward in deal with these really intractable problem ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . as this be my first statement as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson for Northern Ireland , I want to begin by recognise the deep scar leave by the trouble on family and community across the island of Ireland and these island . the pain , loss and legacy of that conflict remain deeply feel to this day . although the liberal Democrats welcome the recent agreement between the british and irish Governments , the true test of this deal will lie in the detail of the legislation that follow . the Government ' s state intention — to promote an honest attempt at reconciliation and to draw a line under decade of division — be one that every member of this House can understand . victim ' family deserve truth , justice and closure . equally , our veteran deserve and must be afford fairness and protection from injustice . as the Secretary of State have say , the legacy Act , introduce by the Conservatives , fail to gain the support of any of the party in Stormont , victim group or the Irish Government . this lack of consensus speak volume but be not loud enough , it seem , for his Majesty ' s official Opposition . I look forward to examine the content of the new Bill in detail and to table constructive amendment . my party will engage fully with the Government , as last reconciliation depend on transparency , fairness and independent oversight . that mean an effective information retrieval body with statutory disclosure power , meaningful participation for victim , and safeguard to uphold both justice and compassion for veteran and victim alike . I have three question for the Secretary of State . first , how will this Bill ensure that reconciliation be not impose from above , but build from the ground up ? secondly , base on the many meeting my party have have with veteran and their representative , what specific safeguard will the Government include to ensure fairness , proportionality and proper protection for those who serve with integrity ? lastly , how will this Government ensure that prosecution under the law , or the possibility of it , can never be use to harm , oppress or discredit those who fight for our country , regardless of the final verdict ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his new role , and I genuinely look forward to work with he on these and other matter , give his interest in Northern Ireland , which be share right across the House . let I turn to his three specific question . first , no legislation can enable people to feel reconcile in some way to what happen . in the end , reconciliation have to come from within . the title " reconciliation " will not be in the new name of the legacy commission , because it be a consequence of a process that we be try to put in place , if family can find answer . I urge the House to concentrate on that , because that be what this be all about — try to enable family to find answer . secondly , I do draw attention to the safeguard in my statement , and when the Bill be publish later , the hon . Gentleman will be able to see how they be give legal expression . lastly , on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about prosecution , I would simply say that people have make one or two comment in these discussion about politically motivated prosecution or vexatious prosecution . I think it be very important that the House uphold the integrity and independence of the prosecutorial authority . a fundamental bedrock of our legal system be that independent prosecutor make such decision , and to suggest that they be in any way politically motivated be in my view profoundly mistaken . I pay tribute to the Secretary of State , the Defence Secretary and the Minister for the Armed Forces for work so hard to achieve this new phase of the peace settlement in Northern Ireland . as we celebrate peace start in the middle east , this statement be a reminder of how long it take to build peace and how important justice be for peace . do the Secretary of State agree with I that by shut down investigation , include into the death of more than 200 Operation Banner soldier , without an adequate alternative , the unlawful legacy Act fail so many family and victim of the trouble , and the mess have to be undo ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , but above all for her great service in the Northern Ireland Office . it be a real pleasure to work with she , and she do so much during her time in the Department . I do agree with my hon . friend , because those service family want to find answer . some time ago , I meet the family of Tony Harrison , who serve and be murder in Belfast . his mother and his brother tell I how outraged they be by the legacy Act , because it propose that those who have kill her son could get immunity from prosecution . it be so important that we put that misguided approach on one side , so that all family — service family and other — can find answer . it be worth remember that most victim be not in a group , be not in the medium and be not take action ; they just want to know what happen to their love one . as we debate the forthcoming legislation , I hope we can all collectively remember that , because investigation be key to deliver for those family . I want to ask the Secretary of State two specific question . first , there be some concern that there will be protection for combatant who may have be involve in rape and other sexual activity . could he look at that as the Bill proceed to make sure that victim be able to talk and have protection , as those ex - combatant have ? secondly , what think have he give to a change of Government in the south should Sinn F é in take power , and to the delivery of the irish contribution and commitment in such a scenario ? I be grateful , as ever , to the right hon . gentleman for his wise word , and I once again pay tribute to the distinguished role he play in try to move forward some of these and many other Northern Ireland question during his time as Secretary of State . on the latter point , it be not for I to speculate on what be go to happen as a result of the decision of the irish electorate . the current coalition Government have give a commitment , and this partnership be two government come together , each make sovereign commitment and promise to carry they out in their own jurisdiction . I think it be a hugely significant moment , because we have to go back 11 year to the last such time , when the last Government be able to reach agreement with the Irish Government in the form of the Stormont House agreement . on the first question , when the right hon . Gentleman see the Bill , he will see that we be make change to allow some other matter to be investigate , because I be conscious of the point he have raise . I welcome the statement and the progress make by both this Government and the Government of the Republic of Ireland . as my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) say , we on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee have hear of the heartbreak of many of those who lose love one over the course of the trouble , and regardless of the background of those love one , they deserve answer . the response we have consistently receive be that Operation Kenova be an example of good practice — that many of those in the island of Ireland be too close to this matter , and bring in suitably qualified individual from other part of the UK should be consider as part of any process . can I ask the Secretary of State if that have be consider in the new Bill ? I would make two point . first , as I have allude to , we have draw on the experience of Operation Kenova , in that the Bill will create a statutory victim and survivor advisory group to ensure that , in the way it go about its work , the commission take account of victim and survivor , and that will include a representative of those who serve the state during the trouble . on the second point , we be put together much tough statutory provision in place relate to conflict of interest . that be why there will be two director of investigation — one will have experience of investigate case in Northern Ireland , the other will not — which will address the concern some family have about who will be look into their case . we should not forget that , despite the nearly 100 case that the commission be currently investigate , which I welcome , far too many family in Northern Ireland have say that they will not be go anywhere near the commission . part of the purpose of what we be seek to do be to build confidence on the part of more family in Northern Ireland to go to the commission and get answer . first , I welcome the Minister to his place and to the Department , and I welcome the new shadow spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats . I personally thank the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) for the role she play in her time in the Northern Ireland Office . that the announcement with the Irish Government be make during a House of Commons recess , one could consider as cynical ; that we stand here today during a statement on legislation that have yet to be introduce , and therefore we have no detail on , as disgraceful ; and the suggestion that the Irish Government have commit to legislate at all as entirely fanciful — they have not . but the detail we do have be that the Secretary of State wish for the Solicitor General to be the person to carry out the sifting process on whether case should go to inquest through the coronial system or to the legacy commission . in Northern Ireland , we have an Advocate General . the Advocate General be England and Wales ' s Attorney General . I be clear in my mind that Richard Hermer would be wholly inappropriate to have his hand anywhere near case touch on the legacy of the past , give how he have conflict himself . will the Secretary of State indicate : have the Attorney General of this country recuse himself from this process ? have he , as Secretary of State , decide to exclude the Attorney General from this process ? be he legislate in a way that will exclude every Attorney General from this process , or be it just Richard Hermer ? I would say to the right hon . Gentleman that I be sorry to have hear what he have just say in relation to very substantial proposal contain in the framework document . I grant he that the Bill will be publish shortly , and he will have a chance to read it . I have be accuse of many thing in my time in public life but be cynical be not one of they , so that be a first . the truth about the announcement of the framework — [ interruption . ] well , it may be the beginning of a number of such accusation , but I will leave that to other who want to take the debate in that particular direction . the framework be announce when it be because it be a joint framework between two government and that mean there have to be a negotiation about when it come out , but I do undertake to Mr Speaker at the time that I would come to the House as quickly as possible to make a statement . I lay a write ministerial statement in the House yesterday , and I come today at the first available opportunity with member here , bear in mind the Whip we have yesterday , to subject what have agree to scrutiny . I have every confidence in the Solicitor General , and I be sure she will do an excellent job in sift these case against three criterion , which will be lay out in statute . the first will be about the impact that sensitive information will have on the ability of inquest to actually complete the case . the second will be speed — time wait for no one . the third will be the view of those who be involve in the case , include family . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and I welcome the Government ' s focus on a protection package for veteran . last week , I meet David , Ishbel and Gary from Yateley and Hawley Royal British Legion , who do an excellent job support veteran in my community . we discuss the new veterans protection package announce by the Government , include the protection against repeat investigation . many veteran from my constituency serve courageously for our nation in very , very difficult condition and they ask I to raise a number of question on behalf of veteran who serve in Northern Ireland . how will the Government ensure that the protection be absolutely watertight in practice , so that veteran be not subject to repeat , distressing investigation in old age ? what step be be take with the Irish Government and other partner to ensure that accountability and justice be apply consistently and fairly on all side ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . she be such a strong advocate for the many veteran she represent . I encourage she to look at the legislation to see the nature of the legislative commitment to give effect to the veteran ’ protection . there will be a couple that will not be in legislation because they be entirely in our own hand , agree a protocol with the commission to ensure that there be no cold calling . I would like to take this opportunity to welcome my new deputy , the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) to the House . it be very remiss of I not to have do so . this be the first chance we have have to sit together on the Front Bench . I pay tribute to the Minister for the Armed Forces , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , from the Ministry of Defence , who have play a really important and significant role in put the protection in place . I note that Lieutenant General Sir Nick Pope , the chair of the Confederation of Service Charities , have say that the Confederation " welcome the development of the safeguard that have be put in place to offer protection to those within the armed force community who be affect by legacy issue . " I , too , welcome that recognition of what we have do . obviously the devil lie in the detail in these thing , and never more so than in Northern Ireland . before the Bill come eventually before we , we really can not say for certain whether it be good , bad or indifferent , as be often the case . I will raise two point . first , I will mention the agreement — I find it a little wishy - washy — over Ireland ' s role in all this , which , as have be say by my hon . friend , have a huge amount of history attach to it , give that Ireland have previously refuse to hand over people who really be guilty of the most vexatious , disgusting attack on civilian and soldier . it do seem to I rather peculiar . we will wait and see what that actually mean . Ireland say it be commit — I would love to see what that commitment actually mean . secondly , I will mention vexatious prosecution . the note we have here talk about protection from repeat investigation " unless there be compelling reason to do so " . my concern with thing like that be that they be little hook that allow development through legislation , instead of be powerful tool to do what the Secretary of State say . I therefore urge he right now to be very clear when this legislation come forward that this can not be break through and to tie down the definition of " compelling " . I note the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about the past , and I be not go to dissent from what he say , but this be an attempt to move beyond the past and the history and to move forward to something that be well . in the end , people will judge the commitment that this Government and the Irish Government have make , but the deal have be sign in good faith , and we be commit to do what we promise to do . the commission be establish by the previous Government , after all , and I take the decision not to abolish it , but to reform it . many people criticise that — they want it scrap completely and for we to start again , but I think that would have be a mistake , because time wait for no one . we would have waste all the money and stop the investigation that be take place , which be really important to the family . every single investigation be important to every single family , because each be about the death of a love one . I be sure we will debate the specific of the legislation at length in the House . the state have a duty , of course , to properly investigate case where it have be involve in a death . the right hon . Gentleman be well aware of that . it be a duty that all of we should uphold . I thank the Secretary of State and his team for their work on this package , include the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , who be so well regard by everybody who come across she in Northern Ireland . I also thank the official in the Department of Foreign Affairs in Dublin for their work , because that partnership be vital to move forward . the Social Democratic and Labour party acknowledge the progress in this package if it be faithfully capture in the legislation . when we push for more and well , please know that that come from a sincere and long - hold determination to get this right for family , survivor and our society as a whole . despite some opinion to the contrary , include recently , I do not believe that most people believe that any murder in Northern Ireland be justify , inevitable , useful or worthy of cover - up , and perpetuate those narrative be an enormous challenge for the present and the future , too . do the Secretary of State agree that all the work invest by family , campaigner and his official will be worth nothing if those who create victim — whether republican or loyalist paramilitary or the state force who assist they — do not approach this with full transparency and disclosure and put honesty and the need of victim over the need of their own narrative ? my hon . friend give I the opportunity to pay tribute to my extraordinary official , some of whom be present today . it have be the privilege of my life to work with they on this . I know that my hon . friend will hold we to the high standard , and I accept what she say in the spirit in which it be offer . as I indicate to the House early , I want there to be maximum provision of information to family , but we must also acknowledge that any and all government have responsibility for the security of the state and to protect life , and this Government will uphold both . I welcome the hon . member for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) to his ministerial position , and I welcome my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) to his new place as spokesperson — frankly the good job anybody could have in opposition . I have spend the summer speak to veteran about the vital commitment they need to feel that the process of prosecution do not become persecution . while many of those veteran recognise that they go to Northern Ireland in order to restore the rule of law and think that they should be subject to the law of this land , they none the less remain incredibly anxious about the possibility that the process of prosecution become persecution . have the Secretary of State have the official backing of any veteran group for the approach that he have take ? separately , have he have any assurance from the Republic of Ireland Government that they will , as a result of the publication of this Bill , drop the inter - state case against the United Kingdom ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the role he play as Liberal Democrat spokesperson for Northern Ireland . the truth be that with the passage of time , the possibility of prosecution become increasingly remote . we all know that to be the case . Most of the family I have meet — not all , but most — have say , " I know that no one be go to be hold to account through the judicial process , but I just want to know what happen . that ' s what I want . " it cause such pain and grief that that answer can not be provide . it really be difficult . as far as the Irish Government be concern , I believe that they will honour the promise they have make . this partnership with the Irish Government be a significant moment , because move from non - co - operation to co - operation will open up the possibility for more information to come to family . the inter - state case be a matter for the Irish Government , but I be very clear of one thing , which be that the last legacy Act create circumstance in which the law that be not compatible with our international obligation , and that be the basis of the inter - state case . the legislation I be bring before the House will fix that and deal with it , and in those circumstance the inter - state case will no long have a basis . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement today , particularly his focus on answer , which be what people want . as someone who lose a friend , Tim Parry , when he be murder by the IRA in 1993 , I know exactly how important it be for family and everyone who know victim to get the answer that they deserve . the agreement be vital in get the process move again so that victim and family can get those answer . how will the Secretary of State continue that work with family and victim both during the process of the legislation and afterwards to make sure that answer remain at the heart of what the Government be try to achieve ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for what he have say . I speak yesterday to the victim ' commissioner in Northern Ireland . on 19 September when the framework be publish , the t á naiste and I meet the victim and survivor forum in Northern Ireland and explain what the framework seek to do . I make a commitment to the victim ' commissioner yesterday that I will come back to meet the victim and survivor forum once it have have a chance to look at the legislation to find out what it think . in the interest of try to solve this issue , I wish the Secretary of State well and hope that he will bring forward the Bill and deal with its progress in the spirit of compromise and co - operation between the party to find the good landing spot possible . he mention good faith , which be a precious resource that be often in short supply when it come to this issue . I think it would be helpful if he work vigorously with the Irish Government to get they to ascertain at speed and pace what , if any , legislative measure they require to make good on what they have commit to , and could he as well as possible work those two piece of legislation in lockstep to give confidence to both side , who have concern when it come to good faith — or rather the absence of it ? I thank the hon . gentleman for what he say . I hope he know that I will do anything and everything I can to try to find a way forward , in partnership with as many member of the House as possible . for a long period of time , this question have be subject to the bipartisanship which , in the main , have characterise relation between the party in the House on matter to do with Northern Ireland . I recognise that there be disagreement in relation to one aspect of what we be put forward ; that do not mean that we can not work together on the other . I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point about the importance of see the legislation require in Ireland to give effect to the proposal . I be stand next to the t á naiste when he make it quite clear — to give an example — that he would ensure legislation be in place to deal with the commitment to enable witness to give evidence to the Omagh public inquiry before the hearing resume in March . that seem to be an important example of good faith . I suppose that the Secretary of State will forgive some of we for be cautious before we be ready to believe that the Government , the state and any paramilitary organisation will give over the information that be require . in fact , right now there be family across the road in the Supreme Court in legal dispute with the government because the Government be withhold information from they . we know that there be a pattern . when it come to inquest , will the Secretary of State look again at the sifting process ? will he give family view primacy when it come to decide which case will have an inquest ? will he drop his proposal to give himself the power to appoint judge in that inquisitorial mechanism ? the important principle of the independence of the judiciary need to be hold up . on inquest , there be three statutory test that the Solicitor General will have to apply . in answer to an early question , I indicate what they be . family view will be one of the consideration , but if inquest can not proceed because of sensitive information , would it not be more sensible to put it into the commission , which can deal with sensitive information , because it have provision for closed hearing ? no doubt my hon . friend will make the point about appointment process when we come to discuss the Bill . however , on the agreement on the information - retrieval mechanism , I point out — this be also relevant to the point make by the opposition — that that be negotiate by the previous Conservative Government and the Irish Government , and it form part of the Stormont House agreement . what be the purpose of it ? it be to enable those who have information to pass it to the body , which can then pass it to the family , and that information will be a protect disclosure , which be not the same as immunity . that system have work well through the independent commission for the location of victim ' remain in recover quite a number of the remain of those who be abduct , torture , murder and bury by the IRA . I hope that it be a step forward in go back to what be agree at Stormont House by the previous Government , the Irish Government and the political party — well , not all of they — and will be welcome on all side . the Secretary of State refer to this as unfinished business . in the last statement , we hear about the success of the peace process in Northern Ireland . I be 12 year old when the Good Friday agreement be sign ; I now stand here 40 year of age as the MP for Lagan Valley , and my constituent deserve truth and justice as much as anybody else . we have hear a lot today about veteran . my family be part of that cohort . they proudly serve , along with many other . they do not want an amnesty . they do not want immunity . they do not want equivocation with terrorist , which be propose by the outgoing government . we hear about people in Northern Ireland who be in the wrong place at the wrong time whenever they die . they be not ; it be the terrorist who be in the wrong place , do the wrong work . we must send out a clear signal , no matter what our political opinion , that terrorism be wrong in the past and be wrong now . will the Secretary of State give I his guarantee that he will discuss that with the Northern Ireland Executive and my ministerial colleague to ensure that those family who so rightfully deserve truth and justice have the resource to be able to get that ? may I say to the hon . member that I agree with every single word that she have express so powerfully and forcefully ? I encourage those who have be chuntere from a sedentary position during the course of these exchange to reflect on her point that there be many people who say they do not want immunity and they certainly object to it be give to those who commit the most appalling crime . voice in Northern Ireland really need to be listen to . the failure to do that , include under the last legacy Act , be why I make the point that there have be a terrible lack of trust in politician over a long period of time . I will not make a party point , but there be a terrible lack of trust in politician because there have be attempt before and they have not work . we have to try to make this work , and I have already begin the process of talk to the hon . member ' s colleague in the Northern Ireland Executive . follow the last question , I want to say that the Tory ' s immunity system would have mean immunity for the perpetrator of terrorist crime across the UK . our domestic court have determine that . do the Secretary of State agree that this Government have no choice but to rectify the situation ? I agree with my hon . friend , who make the point extremely forcefully . it do not work and it be never deliverable . there never be immunity ; it be a false promise make to veteran who be badly let down and badly serve by the last Government . whoever win the election last year would have have to deal with the mess that we have inherit , and that be what we seek to do . in March of this year , it be widely report that the Secretary of State give his word to Mairead Kelly , the sister of IRA murderer Patrick Kelly , that there would be an inquest on the Loughgall incident . be this remedial order a fulfilment of that promise ? if so , it mean that 30 year on , the Government be drag veteran into court over an operation that stop eight heavily armed IRA murderer — man who have already kill and who be on their way to kill again , with weapon that have be use in 40 previous murder . let we be clear : by stop the attack , those soldier prevent the murder of many more innocent Northern Ireland citizen . what justice be serve by punish those brave soldier with a stressful and unnecessary process ? the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) describe it as a persecution , punish they for do nothing more than their duty . be this really what the Secretary of State intend ? the fact be that this Government be elect on a commitment . there be a lot of opposition to the ending of inquest under the legacy Act — maybe not from the right hon . Gentleman but from a lot of people in Northern Ireland . the Government come in committed to restore the inquest that have start and be stop . the reason that I say what I say be because Loughgall , as I have already indicate to the shadow Secretary of State , be one of those nine case . it be for the independent coronial system to take a decision about that , but one of the factor that coroner have to take into account be how they will deal with any sensitive information that be provide . we know from other inquest that there have be a number of case when the coroner have say that they accept that the information can not see the light of day . they have examine the public interest immunity certificate and have reach the conclusion that they can not take the case any far . in those circumstance , the sensible thing would be for case to move into the commission , where sensitive information can be consider . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to new protection for veteran . will he update the House on the discussion that he and Ministry of Defence Ministers have have with veteran and their representative group about the measure ? the Minister for the Armed Forces , the Defence Secretary and I have have many such discussion . the measure that I have announce that will be contain in the Bill and the other non - legislative measure be the result of those discussion . we have listen very carefully to the concern express by veteran and we have come forward with what we think be a fair , reasonable and balanced package of measure that will provide protection while also take forward our responsibility to enable family , include force family , to find answer . I be against the repealing of the legacy Act , and I serve in Northern Ireland . as I be now do in opposition , I raise when we be in government the major concern and dishonour when none of those on the Labour Benches have the decency to come to this House and debate all the point the Minister be make now . they let the legislation go through , but it be record in Hansard that very few people bother to come to the Chamber to debate it when we take it through the House . I want to make two quick point on the support for veteran . first , you have speak about the process they will have to go through ; I want to know what support will be available , as you have mention . secondly , give that the terrorist do not keep record but the British Army do , how will you ensure fair disclosure throughout the process ? order . I remind member not to refer to " you " , as that mean I . I be grateful to the hon . member for his point . support be available for veteran through the Ministry of Defence , and the Armed Forces Minister be very committed to make sure that veteran get all the support they need , which be in part reflect in the package we have announce . on disclosure , we be make a number of change , include amend the definition of " sensitive information " so that it be not designate by virtue of the body that hold it . that be one of the reason why the court find that the disclosure arrangement be not compatible with our commitment . the Secretary of State will have to conduct a balance exercise on what should be disclose ; the Secretary of State will be require to give reason for any decision not to disclose , to the extent that that do not risk harm to national security ; and , of course , any decision that the Secretary of State make can be subject to judicial review . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and for the way he and the Minister for the Armed Forces have engage on this matter in recent month . I have many constituent veteran in Sunderland Central who serve with distinction in Operation Banner ; the Secretary of State rightly praise the professionalism and service of our armed force in that operation , and I welcome the protection he have set out today . may I press he a bit more on the need for continue work with veteran group , so that as the protection be be implement there will be a process of ongoing review to ensure that they provide effective protection from vexatious lawfare ? I be very happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . we have make these commitment because we want they to work , and the Government be determined to ensure that that be the case . on that assurance from the Secretary of State about the protection for veteran , on 19 September he stand beside the Irish Government when he make this announcement , and later that evening the t á naiste , Simon Harris , go on irish medium and clearly say that there be no add protection for veteran in the legacy deal . will the Secretary of State give assurance to the House : be there protection for veteran in this legacy deal , or not ? when the hon . Gentleman see the legislation , he will see that the protection that we have say will be back by legislation be in the legislation . in addition to that , there be the provision relate to cold calling and on not require veteran to rehearse the historical context when it be possible for someone from the Ministry of Defence , for example , to do that to assist both inquest and the commission . as the Secretary of State know , I be a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , and we have be very engaged in this issue , not least because of the ruling of our court that the previous Government ' s attempt to legislate on this issue be unlawful because it would potentially grant immunity to , among other , terrorist . that be no way to serve justice to family and victim , and it be no way to serve justice to our veteran . will the Secretary of State confirm that the legislation we be bring forward will not grant immunity to terrorist ? that be a simple request and it be remarkable that I have to make it , but give the legislation that the previous Government attempt to pass , it be important to have it on the record . I be very happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . the legislation be pass ; it be never commence . it be strike down by the court , and the remedial order will remove it from the statute book , because we do not agree with give immunity to terrorist . we do not agree with the principle of immunity because we believe , as I hope the whole House believe , in the rule of law . I be surprised that no one have mention the letter of comfort that be give to the IRA and the question of whether or not they still hold water , but let I go back to what the Secretary of State say about the possibility of IRA boss like Gerry Adams claim compensation on technical ground that the " wrong " Minister sign their internment paper . as I understand it from what the Secretary of State say early , the remedial order that he be lay before Parliament will open up the possibility of such people sue the Government for compensation , which the new legacy legislation that he be bring in will nevertheless then rule out . he refer to a possible gap between the new legislation come into force and the remedial order open the gap . it have be suggest to I that the Government be brief the press that the remedial order will not actually be vote on until the new legacy Bill have go through Parliament . be that his policy , and if not , what be his policy ? the aim of the remedial order be to remove from the statute book provision in the previous legislation that have be find to be incompatible with our obligation . I would just say that the letter of comfort do not offer immunity . that have be quite clear from Lady Justice Hallett ' s review and what the Chief Constable and other have say . I want to reassure the right hon . gentleman on the interim custody order . the Supreme Court judgment be in 2020 . the last Government do not know what to do about that : it be not a judgment that the Government expect , and they do not know how to deal with the question of potential compensation . in the end , two member of the other House introduce what be now section 46 and 47 . they be vote on , but they be subsequently find to be ineffective in achieve the objective , when the court say that they be incompatible . what I have just tell the House be that the new draft remedial order will not remove they from the statute book . section 46 and 47 will remain in place until such time as the new legislation I be introduce take effect . it be a flimsy defence , because it have already be find by the court to be ineffective , but it will remain in place . it show that I have listen to the representation that be make about section 46 and 47 , and it be place in the remedial order . I be now go to deal with the problem by legislation in the way that I set out . score , if not hundred , of people in Northern Ireland lose their life because of the safe base and the haven that the Republic of Ireland offer their IRA murderer . that be where they have their arm dump , that be where they have their training camp and that be where they return to for sanctuary , safe in the knowledge that extradition would invariably be refuse . yet it be with the Government of that territory that the Secretary of State have choose to co - design these proposal . he do not co - design they with the innocent victim of terrorism ; he choose to co - design they with the Government of the territory that facilitate the victim maker . why , then , should any innocent victim have any confidence in these proposal , particularly as they still require nothing meaningful from the Republic of Ireland ? there be a tentative promise that , if necessary , there will be co - operation , but there be no apology for the Republic ' s role in facilitate terrorism for year . do the Secretary of State even seek an apology publicly from the Republic of Ireland ? that be the same government who to this day continue with an inter - state action against this Government . how could any of this proposal command widespread support when that be its genealogy ? I say to the hon . and learn Gentleman that we can remain stuck in the past and think of a thousand reason why , " this isn ' t good enough , " and , " we shouldn ' t do this , " or , " we shouldn ' t do the other . " the responsibility on the House be to try to find a way of move forward , because the fact that so many family do not have answer be a product of — if I may say so — people be stick in the past , and we need to move beyond that . the hon . and learn Gentleman be mistaken , if I may gently chide he , in say that these proposal have be co - design with the Irish Government . I have say already that I would have take these step regardless of whether we reach an agreement with the Irish Government , because the mess leave to we by the last Government force whoever be in office now to deal with the consequence of a piece of legislation that do not work . but I will agree with he on one thing : in the end , it will be the family who will decide whether this new approach allow they to find the answer . I can not say too many time that that be what really matter in all this , because it be those family who have influence I more than anyone else in the discussion I have have . the young man send out to do the state ' s business during the trouble be now old man , often sick , often disabled . some of they be my constituent . they will be listen carefully to the Secretary of State and will be hear honey word . they will be read those word in this framework document , even as the protection give by the legacy Act be strip away from they and they listen for the metaphorical knock on the door as activist , leave , liberal human right lawyer construct , open and reopen case that will do they in in their fail year . be that what the Secretary of State want ? be this not a beanfeast for lawyer ? be it any wonder that no veteran group have come out to support the framework that he have announce today ? I have great respect for the right hon . Member and his service , both as a Minister and in our armed force . I gently say to he that protection be not be strip away because they never exist in the first place . it be important for the House to appreciate this : the provision that be pass in the legacy Act be never commence . they be then strike down by the court . they do not exist ; they never have exist . [ interruption . ] that be just a fact . nobody have be grant immunity because the provision of that Act have never ever be apply . one can not strip away something that never exist in the first place . I be afraid what the last Government do be to offer a false promise to veteran . one of the consequence of the widespread failure of the legacy Act be court case after court case where people have say , " well , we need to find another mean of get an answer to the question about what happen to our love one . " that involve expensive court case . I be under an order to establish a public inquiry into one case . it be — I think the phrase have be use — a legal wild west that the legislation open up , and we be try to put thing back together again . the Secretary of State indicate that the Government be introduce what he describe as " strong safeguard " , and he say that the legacy commission will be " under a duty not to duplicate aspect of any previous investigation unless there be compelling reason that make it essential . " what will he do when — not if , but when — the Republic of Ireland ' s Government come under severe pressure from other source to make compelling reason to he that there have to be something investigate that the person who be the subject of that investigation believe they would be exclude from ? what will he do then ? the hon . Gentleman , for whom I have great respect , ask what be , in fairness , a totally hypothetical question . [ interruption . ] well it be a hypothetical question . the fact be that it will be for the commission to interpret the legal obligation that will be place upon it by the legislation , which refer to such reinvestigation be essential . ultimately , the commission will judge , and if people do not like the way in which it have interpret thing , they have a remedy available to they in judicial review . as a veteran , I be deeply concerned by the Government ' s dog pursuit of this legislation , which have the support neither of Northern Ireland veteran nor of veteran in my generation , who have concern about their own service in Iraq and Afghanistan . what guarantee can the Secretary of State give the british public that this legislation will achieve justice and that terrorist guilty of the murder of british service personnel will now be hold to account ? how many case do he believe will be reopen in order to pursue IRA terrorist in the way that british personnel be now vulnerable to be pursue ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his service . if he look at the nearly 100 case that the commission be currently investigate , he will find that they include the Guilford pub bombing , the M62 coach bombing and the Kingsmill massacre . the commission have the power it need — in this respect , I pay tribute to the previous Government — to get the information require to do the job of investigate . have meet the investigator , I can say that they be very committed to their task . the family who have choose to refer the case — which be what have govern the 100 case that the commission be look at — have say , " please , can you look at this ? " I want more family to do that , so that more of they get answer . if the hon . Gentleman look at the number of case , he will see that it reflect in reasonable measure who be actually responsible for the vast majority of death in Northern Ireland . do the Secretary of State agree that this Government ' s continued hounding of our brave Northern Ireland veteran — many of whom should be enjoy well - earn retirement after their loyal service to the British Government , not live in fear of prosecution for simply follow order — be nothing short of shameful ? the Government do not wish to see anybody hound . we have put these protection in place precisely because we have listen to the concern that veteran have express to I , to the Defence Secretary and to the Minister for the Armed Forces . I give one example of a veteran welcome the fact that we be put the protection in place . I would ask people to look at the protection when the legislation be present , and to understand that what I say about the risk of prosecution diminish rapidly over time be , look back over recent year , reflect in what the fact tell we . will the Secretary of State set out how many of the proposed six protection for veteran will also be available to former paramilitary ? when they introduce immunity , the previous Government say that it would apply not just to veteran but to other , include terrorist , and that be what the legislation do in those circumstance . there be provision that apply to witness , but the reason for the package be the determination of the Government to protect veteran . the hon . Member will see that a number of those protection be lay out in the legislation . other will be step that the Ministry of Defence will take . like the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State should stop use the phrase , " the legislation be strike down by the court . " the court have no such power . as Jack Straw make clear from the Dispatch Box , a declaration of incompatibility be no more than a declaration ; it place no obligation or expectation on Parliament . but may I thank the Secretary of State for at least listen to my representation in delay the repeal of section 46 and 47 of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 until the new legislation be in place ? of course , he be do so because they be effective . otherwise , there would be no point in delay their repeal , would there ? I suppose I should take that praise from the right hon . Gentleman at face value . the fact be that section 46 and 47 be find to be incompatible , but I have listen , and I hope Members of the House will find I willing to listen . I must , however , correct he , because when it come to the immunity provision , they be find to be incompatible , and he be correct in what he describe , but they be also strike down under article 2 of the Windsor framework . that be why they be not operational . it be no secret that I have major concern over the legacy Bill , not least that innocent victim be preclude from take their path to justice . what seem to be before we now be carte blanche for political inquiry and yet no hope for the Kingsmill family . it instead highlight the role of the Irish Government in british matter after their continue refusal to engage and their collusion to protect IRA murderer across the border . in the penultimate paragraph of his statement , the Secretary of State say that " the many family who lose love one … will be the judge of whether these new arrangement can give they the answer that they have seek for so long . " quite clearly , that will not be the case for many family , and the Secretary of State will know that a member of my family be murder on 10 December 1971 . it show that the Government have no heart for the victim but have an ear instead for the victim maker . do the Secretary of State not understand why these feeling exist ? when will he put right thinking and good people of the Province above be see to be politically correct by the enemy of peace and justice in Northern Ireland ? my family seek justice , and I do not see it on the other side . for all the other family that I represent and that we all represent , we seek that justice , but not within this . the hon . Gentleman have speak before most powerfully and movingly about the impact that the death of family member have have upon he . he exemplify , if I may say so , what so many people in Northern Ireland say when they meet we and talk to we : some will open up and some will weep , and some will not be able to open their mouth to describe what happen because the pain run so deep after all these year . we be try to create a mechanism and a means of enable every single family who want to come forward and say , " can you please look at this case and see if we can find more information ? " to do that . the hon . Gentleman refer to the Kingsmill massacre . as I have already indicate to the House , that be one of the case that the commission be currently look into . there be the inqu verdict , and we know what it find . I will simply say to the House that probably the most difficult conversation I have have since I take up this post be to listen to the sole survivor of the Kingsmill massacre , Alan Black , describe to I exactly what happen on that dark and dreadful night . I personally do not have a great deal of faith in this Government or previous government on issue to do with legacy . can the Secretary of State give assurance that in address the legacy of the Northern Ireland trouble , terrorist will not be allow to rewrite history and that our history will be record truthfully , with the focus on innocent victim rather than on those who commit act of terrorism ? can he far reassure I that veteran will not be chase for prosecution vexatiously ? can he also reassure I — give that irish Governments for 56 year of my life have fail to give information to our Government about act of terrorism from their side of the country ? can he tell we what inquest will actually go ahead now ? if he could name they all , I would really appreciate that . I will write to the hon . gentleman in response to his last question , if I may . what the hon . member describe be exactly what the commission be there to do . I be make a number of change in the commission to create great confidence on the part of family to come forward . I have great respect for Sir Declan Morgan and his colleague , and for the work that they be do . the fact that a hundred family have approach they be very significant , but as the hon . Gentleman will know very well , there be many family in Northern Ireland who will say , " because of the circumstance of its creation , and the closing down of inquest and civil case , we do not trust the commission to look independently and properly at our case . " I be try to make it possible for more family to come forward so that more can find the answer they seek . the hon . Gentleman make a powerful point about co - operation from Ireland . the reason why I be so keen to try to reach an agreement with the Irish Government be that we have get , as a result of our negotiation , a commitment to co - operate with the commission . at the moment , the Irish Government will not do so because of the legislation pass by the last Government . once we have make these change , they be commit to co - operate . in the end , we will all be judge on how this go and how it proceed , and whether the answer be find for family , but we will be in a much well position than we be with the total mess that the last Government leave we . when we cut through the waffle of this statement and the Secretary of State ' s answer this afternoon , one fact remain : soldier who serve in Northern Ireland who have already have case try will be able to be drag back into the court and will be subject to interrogation there . the Secretary of State talk about all these wonderful protection , so let we look at they : they will not have to travel to Northern Ireland — they can appear remotely ; they will be give help to appear remotely — I assume that mean that somebody will show they how to work an iPad ; and they will not have a knock at the door from anybody other than the military police , so the psni will not be come over from Northern Ireland and knock at their door at 6 o ' clock in the morning . that be hardly any reassurance to the people who serve in Northern Ireland . then we be tell that deal with the family who be affect by the trouble be a joint responsibility with Irish Government . there be no obligation in this statement on the Irish Government , other than to throw 30 piece of silver at the legacy mechanism to assuage their guilt for protect terrorist over 30 year and for cover up for the collaboration of some within the irish establishment who help the IRA in their job . I would say two thing to right hon . Gentleman . first , I would not be quite so light with the importance of that commitment to allow our veteran to give evidence remotely . the Minister for the Armed Forces and I have both speak to veteran for whom have to go back to Northern Ireland would bring back memory that they have be have to deal with ever since they serve . that be actually a very important protection and one that the Government be commit to put in place . secondly , how would the right hon . Gentleman propose that we move this question forward ? for all the criticism — no doubt , I will receive many , many more — the people I most wish to hear from be those who have practical proposal as to how we can create great confidence on the part of the victim , survivor and the family so that they get the answer they be look for . anyone who come forward with helpful suggestion will find a ready partner in I . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . as you know , when we have a Budget , the Chancellor of the Exchequer deliver the Budget and then the Red Book , with all the fine detail , the number and the graph , be immediately make available to mps , so that they can at least glance through it and ask the Chancellor question . conversely , this afternoon we just have spend nearly an hour and a half debate a statement about a Bill and a very important remedial order that we be quite deliberately not allow to see . surely it would have be well if hon . member have be allow to receive the Bill and the remedial order — at least to glance at it for a few minute — so they could have ask much well inform question of the Secretary of State . unfortunately , the Secretary of State have organise this cynically to prevent that . Madam Deputy Speaker , how do we prevent that from happen again ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order , but as be usual practice , when the Bill be present , it will be available in the Vote Office . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . over the summer , I be the subject of two online death threat , which the police be investigate . these be post in response to a video publish by the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) . the video accuse I of not tell the truth on a very sensitive subject : the horrific abuse of child by groom gang . if the hon . Member have make those remark in Parliament , they would have be deem unparliamentary . as well as the death threat , that video elicit a torrent of misogynistic , racist and offensive comment , which remain online . as member of this House , it be incumbent on we to do all we can to prevent the escalation of abuse . the action of the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley be at good irresponsible , and at bad inflammatory . I call on he to apologise , to withdraw the video , and to commit to refrain from personal attack against I and other elect official in future . online abuse have a psychological impact on all of we who be subject to it — on our staff , our family and our friend . it have a chilling effect on democracy , stifle debate , put good people off stand for election and create a climate of hate . therefore , I also hope that the Committee on Standards will review the code of conduct , to ensure that the same standard expect of member in this place be uphold in their word and behaviour outside this place , particularly online . I thank the hon . member for give notice of her point of order , and I be aware that she have notify the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley in advance of raise this matter in the Chamber . although it be not strictly a point of order for the Chair , Mr Speaker take the security and safety of member very seriously , and I would always encourage member to treat each other with courtesy and respect . bill present Northern Ireland Troubles Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Hilary Benn , support by Secretary John Healey and Secretary David Lammy , present a Bill to make new provision to address the legacy of the Northern Ireland Troubles . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 310 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 310 — EN ) . Hospices and Palliative Care Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Alison Bennett , support by Helen Morgan , Helen Maguire , Dr Danny Chambers , Ian Sollom , Pippa Heylings and Charlotte Cane , present a Bill to place a duty on the Secretary of State to ensure the availability of hospice service for all people at the end of life ; to require the Secretary of State to report annually to Parliament on the adequacy of funding for child ' s and adult hospice service , include an assessment of whether any funding increase be necessary to maintain such service ; to require the Secretary of State to publish a five year plan for hospice funding ; to make provision about the availability of specialist palliative care in emergency care service in hospital ; to make provision about support patient receive palliative care in the community in certain circumstance ; to require the Secretary of State to prepare and publish a workforce plan for hospice service ; to require palliative care advice to be available through non - emergency NHS advice service ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 31 October , and to be print ( Bill 311 ) . young Carers ( Educational and Employment Support ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Liz Jarvis , support by Daisy Cooper , Alison Bennett , Rachael Maskell , Mr Will Forster , Sorcha Eastwood , Dr Ellie Chowns , Cameron Thomas , Alex Brewer , Sarah Dyke , Si â n Berry and Tessa Munt , present a Bill to require school to maintain a record of pupil with caring responsibility ; to make provision about support in school for pupil with caring responsibility , include require school to designate a member of staff as have responsibility for support young carer ; to require school to provide specify academic and other support to pupil with caring responsibility , include support in relation to public examination and provision of counselling ; to make provision about support for future employment for pupil with caring responsibility , include through mentor and a programme of skill development ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 31 October , and to be print ( Bill 308 ) . registration of Births , Deaths and Marriages ( Welsh Language Provision ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require that any birth , death or marriage certificate issue in Wales be issue bilingually in English and Welsh ; to make provision for the issuance in England of birth certificate bilingually in English and Welsh where either parent name on the certificate be a Welsh speaker ; to make provision for the issuance in England of death certificate bilingually in English and Welsh where the deceased person live in Wales or be a Welsh speaker ; and for connected purpose . I extend my thank to the Clerks and the team in the Public Bill Office for their invaluable and diligent assistance , and to the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) , for his support and for be in the Chamber today . there be an old saying in Cymraeg — in Welsh : " Mae ' r tegell yn berwi a dwi ' n barod . " it mean , " the kettle be boil and I be ready . " the kettle have be on the boil for a long time in Wales , and Welsh people have be ready for decade to ensure they receive birth , marriage and death certificate in the Welsh language . this Bill aim to give Welsh people , after registration , the right to receive such certificate in Welsh only , English only or bilingually . it be not the first Bill on this subject to come before this House or the other place — politician from both Welsh Labour and Plaid Cymru have present Bills on this matter . the late Dafydd Elis - Thomas present a Bill in the House of Lords as far back as 1999 . as a proud Clwyd boy , I be pleased to say that next be a Bill by the then Clwyd West MP , Gareth Thomas , who present the first Bill in the Commons . in 2009 , he be follow by Hywel Williams , who present another Bill to the Commons . while Welsh Labour and Plaid Cymru have lead on this subject , there have also be notable support from politician of other party , include Lembit Ö pik for the Liberal Democrats and Michael Fabricant for the Conservatives — the cheeky boy of the noughtie . this exceptionally broad support across the political spectrum show that this be not a party political subject , nor should something as important and treasure as the Welsh language ever be party political . on that note , I acknowledge the work of the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) , who have share many discussion with I on this issue , and I look forward to continue to work with she . People who have live in Wales may well have receive their child ' s birth certificate or a parent ' s death certificate in both English and Welsh and be think , " what be the problem ? what be the purpose of this Bill ? " sadly , there be many circumstance where people might not receive a Welsh or bilingual certificate and instead receive an English - only one . there be no rule or law that say if someone live in Wales , or be Welsh and live in England , they can or must receive such a certificate in Welsh or bilingually . that be what happen to a constituent of mine , Afryl Davies . I be delighted that Afryl be in the Gallery today , and I pay tribute to she and her family for their fortitude in the light of the tragedy they face . sadly , Afryl ' s husband , Aled , pass away . Aled be a proud welshman and a proud Welsh speaker , but his family do not receive a copy of his death certificate bilingually . they receive only an English - language version . they write many letter , include to the coroner , the registrar and the General Register Office , request that his death certificate be reissue bilingually , but sadly they be turn down at every opportunity because of how the law currently operate . worse still , my constituent be tell that their only option be to turn to the court to attempt to secure a reissued certificate in Welsh . Afryl come to one of my regular advice surgery to see if I could help , and I have get to admit that I be dumbfound that this situation be somehow still possible in 2025 . the Welsh Language Act 1993 and the Welsh Language ( Wales ) measure 2011 be put in place to ensure that the Welsh language have parity and equal legal status with English and must not be treat less favourably , yet here we be , with a proud Welsh person who live and sadly die in our capital city , and his family be as yet unable to receive his death certificate bilingually . I think we can all agree that people live in Wales and Welsh people live in England should be able to receive their birth , death and marriage certificate in Cymraeg — in Welsh — or in English or bilingually , if they so choose . the previous Labour Government agree with that and be in the process of make that law . that start in 2002 , when there be a UK Government White Paper and a consultation exercise on the future of civil registration . the " Birth , Marriage and Death Registration in the 21st Century " White Paper state : " the Government will extend the facility for bilingual ( English / Welsh ) birth registration to include event occur in England to Welsh speak parent . presently , only birth that occur in Wales can be register bi - lingually in English and Welsh . this can cause a problem , for example , if a Welsh mother give birth in a hospital over the border in England and can not then obtain a birth registration in bi - lingual format . after the registration it will be possible for document to be issue in Welsh only , English only or both language … in line with birth registration , the Government will extend the facility to register a death in English and Welsh to include death which take place in England . after the registration it will be possible for document to be issue in Welsh only , English only or both language . " follow the subsequent consultation period , the General Register Office be instruct by the then UK Labour Government to start look into plan to make that provision possible . in 2009 , the then Wales Office Minister Wayne David , state that " the Government remain firmly committed to produce Welsh language certificate , and the General Register Office be explore the good way to do that . " — [ Official Report , 11 March 2009 ; Vol . 489 , c . 283 . ] unfortunately , the UK Labour Government of the day be not able to get that through the House of Commons before the 2010 general election , and the succeed conservative and Liberal Democrat Government would go on to abandon the plan , despite support from some of their own mp , as I have already mention . my constituent be tell that they could not receive their beloved family member ' s death certificate bilingually , because follow the inquest the certificate be first send to the registrar in English only , before then be send bilingually . however , because the certificate have first be receive in English , the death be accordingly register in English only . as I have say , because of the way in which the law currently work , my constituent have be leave with no option other than to turn to the court to attempt to secure a reissued death certificate . Afryl should have be afford the dignity of receive Aled ' s death certificate bilingually , but she be instead face with the indignity of have to consider recourse to the court to try and secure it . that can not be right . it be inhumane and it be unfair , and in 2025 it should not stand . if the last Labour Government ' s proposal have become law , my constituent would have receive that death certificate bilingually , because death certificate would be translate after the registration of death . this a key part of my Bill . the 2002 White Paper state : " after the registration it will be possible for document to be issue in Welsh only , English only or both language . " that , in a nutshell , be what my Bill be about : give people live in Wales , and Welsh people in England , the right to have their or a family member ' s birth or death certificate issue in Welsh , English or bilingually after registration . if no preference be give , such birth or death certificate should be issue bilingually by default . as for marriage certificate issue in Wales , those too should be issue bilingually by default . all of that be a policy aim under the last Labour Government , and it be a policy that still have cross - party support . this be a long - overdue process , and I be determined to make it happen . we know that the last Labour Government ask the General Register Office to look into make it happen . a feasibility study must have take place , so we know that a lot of work have already be do . we also know that with the law as it currently stand , there appear to be shortcoming in the procedural guidance for registrar , specifically in circumstance in which they be not Welsh speaker and a bilingual certificate have be request . these issue raise broad question about equity of service for Welsh - speak citizen . I urge the General Register Office and other to look at they now and while , hopefully , my Bill be make progress . after all , the Bill do not need to begin from the starting line ; we be pick up the baton in a race that we have already begin , so let ' s get it to the finish line . I be bear in Llanelwy — St Asaph , the " city of music " . I will not give my age away , but my parent want their child ' s birth certificate to be in English and Welsh . today , my constituent want their relative ' s death certificate to be in Welsh or bilingual , but they have not be give that option by default . instead , they be leave to fight for it . this can not be right in a modern Wales — a Wales proud of its language , a population proud of its country . I ask the Government to consider my Bill , and let we in Wales be proud of our country and proud of our language . " cenedl heb iaith , cenedl heb galon " — a nation without a language be a nation without a heart . question put and agree to . order , that Mr Alex Barros - Curtis , Tonia Antoniazzi , Gill German , Andrew Ranger , Carolyn Harris , Dame Nia Griffith , Liz Saville Roberts , Ben Lake , Ann Davies and Henry Tufnell present the Bill . Mr Alex Barros - Curtis accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 31 October , and to be print ( Bill 309 ) . Mental Health Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Third Report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , Legislative Scrutiny : Mental Health Bill , HC 601 , and the Government response , HC 1217 . ] New Clause 2 - national strategy on mental health unit " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part VIII ( Miscellaneous Functions of Local Authorities and the Secretary of State ) , after section 118 insert — ' 118a National strategy on mental health unit ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of the Mental Health Act 2025 , publish a national strategy to set out how the Government will ensure that all relevant mental health unit meet or exceed " good " safety standard as assess by the Care Quality Commission ( CQC ) . ( 2 ) a strategy issue under this section must address the follow matter — ( a ) recruitment , retention and training of mental health staff , ( b ) patient - to - staff ratio , and ( c ) safe staffing level during crisis and night shift . ( 3 ) follow publication of the strategy , a report on implementation progress must be lay before Parliament annually . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , a " relevant mental health unit " be a facility use for treatment under this Act . ' " — ( z ö e Franklin . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a strategy , follow by an annual progress report , on how the Government will ensure that all mental health unit use for treatment under the Mental Health Act 1983 be rate " good " or above by the CQC . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 3 — impact assessment : child and young people in temporary foster care — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 18 month of the passing of this Act , publish and lie before Parliament an impact assessment on the impact of this Act on child and young people who be in temporary foster care . ( 2 ) the impact assessment under this section must consider — ( a ) whether the ordinary residence provision result in delay or inequity in access treatment or after - care under this Act ; ( b ) the effect of transition between placement on continuity of treatment under this Act ; and ( c ) any unintended consequence for child and young people in temporary foster care arise from the application of subsection ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) of section 125 g of the Mental Health Act 1983 . " this new clause would require the Government to publish an impact assessment on the impact of this Act on child and young people in temporary foster care . new clause 4 — adequacy of accommodation : review — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Bill 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after Section 131a ( Accommodation etc . for child ) insert — ' 131B adequacy of accommodation ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passage of the Mental Health Act 2025 , publish a review of the quality of accommodation for any patient who be — ( a ) liable to be detain in a hospital under this Act ; ( b ) admit to , or remain in , a hospital in pursuance of such arrangement as be mention in section 131 ( 1 ) above . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the publication of the review under subsection ( 1 ) , publish a strategy to implement the recommendation of that review . ' " this new clause would require a review of the quality of accommodation for people detain or admit to hospital under the Mental Health Act 1983 and require the Secretary of State to publish a strategy to implement the recommendation of this review . new clause 5 — Review of impact of this Act on detention — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within a period of 12 month follow the day on which this Act be pass , commission an independent review into the impact of relevant provision on reduce the number of people detain under Part 2 of the Mental Health Act 1983 . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , ' relevant provision ' include — ( a ) section 4 , 5 and 6 , ( b ) section 8 , ( c ) section 21 , and ( d ) section 46 and 47 . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the publication of the review in subsection ( 1 ) , publish a strategy to implement the recommendation of that review . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission a review into the impact of relevant provision in the Act in reduce the number of people detain , in particular the provision relate to people with autism or a learn disability , on ground for detention and for community treatment order , medical treatment , care and treatment plan , and on after - care , and to implement any recommendation within 12 month of the publication of the review . new clause 6 — transfer of patient : out of area placement — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 19 ( transfer of patient ) , insert — ' 19a transfer of patient : out of area placement ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must reduce to zero , within five year of the passage of the Mental Health Act 2025 , the number of patient transfer to a hospital outside of the area in which the patient be ordinarily resident . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must publish , within six month of the passage of the Mental Health Act 2025 , a report to outline how the duty under this section will be meet , include how provision for treatment under this Act will be increase . ' " this new clause would require the transfer of patient to hospital outside of their area to be reduce to zero within 5 year , and for the Secretary of State to produce a report on how this will be achieve . new clause 7 — child detain on adult ward — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 131a ( Accommodation , etc . for child ) , insert — ' 131b child detain on adult ward ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must reduce to zero , within five year of the passage of the Mental Health Act 2025 , the number of child detain on adult ward . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must publish , within six month of the passage of the Mental Health Act 2025 , a report to outline how the duty under this section will be meet , include how provision for treatment under this Act will be increase . ' " this new clause would require the number of child detain on adult ward to be reduce to zero within 5 year , and for the Secretary of State to produce a report on how this will be achieve . new clause 8 — report on the impact of this Act on patient with eat disorder — " ( 1 ) within a period of 12 month follow the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must publish a report on the impact of relevant provision in this Act on patient with eat disorder . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , ' relevant provision ' include — ( a ) section 5 ( ground for detention ) , ( b ) section 11 ( make treatment decision ) , ( c ) section 17 ( urgent treatment to alleviate serious suffering ) , ( d ) section 21 ( care and treatment plan ) , and ( e ) section 47 ( after - care service ) . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to report on the impact of this Bill on patient with eat disorder within 12 month of the passage of this Bill . new clause 9 — Report and Guidance : improve Outcomes for LGBT patient — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the day on which this Act be pass , prepare and lie before Parliament a report on the mental health outcome of patient who be treat under the Mental Health Act 1983 and who identify as lesbian , gay , bisexual , or transgender ( LGBT ) . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must include an assessment of — ( a ) any difference between non - LGBT patient and LGBT patient in — ( i ) the extent of the use of detention measure under the Mental Health Act 1983 ; and ( ii ) treatment outcome follow detention , and ( b ) the availability and accessibility of ' culturally competent ' mental health treatment under the 1983 Act for LGBT patient . ( 3 ) follow publication of the report under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must publish guidance for responsible body and individual work with patient under the Mental Health Act 1983 , include but not limit to those work in — ( a ) mental health hospital ; ( b ) place of safety ; ( c ) crisis accommodation ; and ( d ) relevant community mental health service . ( 4 ) the guidance under subsection ( 3 ) must include — ( a ) provision about update training standard for staff regard the specific mental health need and experience of LGBT individual , include training on non - discriminatory practice and inclusive communication approach ; ( b ) step to improve safety for LGBT patient in relevant mental health setting , with particular regard to address discrimination and harassment ; and ( c ) a definition of ' cultural competent mental health treatment ' for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) . ( 5 ) responsible body and individual work with patient under the Mental Health Act 1983 must have regard to guidance publish under subsection ( 3 ) . ( 6 ) in prepare the report under subsection ( 1 ) and the guidance under subsection ( 3 ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) patient with a mental disorder who identify as LGBT ; ( b ) the family or carer of patient with a mental disorder who identify as LGBT ; ( c ) relevant professional body ; ( d ) integrate care board ; ( e ) local authority ; ( f ) provider of mental health treatment ; and ( g ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State must update the guidance under subsection ( 3 ) at regular interval , and no less frequently than every three year . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to report on mental health outcome and disparity for LGBT patient in treatment under the Mental Health Act 1983 and publish guidance cover training and safety for this specific group . new clause 10 — Report and Guidance : transition to Adult Mental Health Treatment — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 18 month of passing of this Act , prepare and lie before Parliament a report on improve provision for patient transition from treatment in a hospital environment for child and young people to one for adult when they attain the age of 18 . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must include an assessment of — ( a ) the current pathway and outcome for young people transition between hospital environment for child and for adult ; ( b ) any gap in care or support experience by patient during this transition ; ( c ) good practice for ensure safe and effective transition . ( 3 ) follow the report under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must publish guidance for integrate care board , local authority , and provider of mental health treatment on improve outcome and ensure continuity of care for patient transition to a hospital environment for adult . ( 4 ) the guidance under subsection ( 3 ) must include — ( a ) specific step to guarantee continuity of care for patient transition between treatment in a hospital environment for child and young people and one for adult ; ( b ) measure to identify young people require transition support at an appropriate stage ; ( c ) provision for joint working and information sharing between provider of treatment for child and young people and for adult ; ( d ) requirement for the review and updating of care and treatment plan to reflect the need of patient transition to a hospital environment for adult . ( 5 ) integrated care board , local authority , and provider of mental health treatment must have regard to guidance publish under subsection ( 3 ) . ( 6 ) in prepare the report under subsection ( 1 ) and the guidance under subsection ( 3 ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) young people with experience of transition between child and young people ' s and adult mental health service , and their carer and guardian ; ( b ) relevant professional body ; ( c ) integrate care board ; ( d ) local authority ; ( e ) provider of mental health treatment ; ( f ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State must update the guidance under subsection ( 3 ) at regular interval , and no less frequently than every three year . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to review and report on the transition of patient from child ' s to adult mental health setting for treatment at age 18 and publish guidance for relevant body on improve provision and ensure continuity of care during this transition . new clause 11 — report : racial disparity relate to community treatment order — " ( 1 ) within a period of 12 month follow the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must undertake a review of racial disparity which relate to the use and administering of community treatment order . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must include , but be not limit to — ( a ) an assessment of whether certain racial or ethnic group be disproportionately represent among individual subject to community treatment order compare to their representation in the general population ; ( b ) a review of the outcome and effectiveness of community treatment order across different racial group , include health outcome , and patient experience . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report of the finding of the review before Parliament within 18 month of the day on which this Act be pass . " this new clause seek to gauge the Government ' s view on prevalent racial disparity as they relate to the use of community treatment order under the Act . new clause 12 — Mental Health Crisis Breathing Space — " ( 1 ) any person detain under section 3 , 37 , 41 or 47 of the Mental Health Act 1983 must be offer support from the mental health crisis breathing space debt respite scheme . " this new clause ensure that MHCBS , a debt respite scheme , be offer and available to patient detain under section 3 , 37 , 41 and 47 of the Mental Health Act 1983 . new clause 13 — address and report on racial disparity and other inequality in the use of the Mental Health Act 1983 — " after section 120d of the Mental Health Act 1983 , insert — ' 120E mental health unit and service to have a responsible person ( 1 ) a relevant health organisation that operate a mental health unit or community mental health service for qualifying patient must appoint a responsible person for that unit or service for the purpose of address racial disparity and other disparity base on protect characteristic relate to function discharge under the Mental Health Act 1983 . ( 2 ) the responsible person must — ( a ) be employ by the relevant health organisation , and ( b ) be of an appropriate level of seniority . ( 3 ) where a relevant health organisation operate more than one mental health unit or service , that organisation must appoint a single responsible person in relation to all of the mental health unit or service operate by that organisation . ( 4 ) a patient be a qualifying patient if they be — ( a ) liable to be detain under this Act , otherwise than by virtue of section 4 or 5 ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) or section 135 or 136 ; ( b ) subject to guardianship under this Act ; ( c ) a community patient . 120f Policy on racial disparity and other disparity base on protect characteristic ( 1 ) the responsible person must publish a policy on how the unit plan to reduce racial disparity and other disparity base on protect characteristic in that unit or service . ( 2 ) the policy publish under subsection ( 1 ) must cover the follow topic — ( a ) the application of the guide principle to all aspect of operation of this Act ; ( b ) staff knowledge and competence in connection with promote equality and anti - discriminatory practice in relation to this Act ; ( c ) workforce demographic , recruitment , retention and progression ; ( d ) implementation of the patient and carer race equality framework ( England only ) and any other requirement of relevant national policy ; ( e ) care planning and decision - making in the use of this Act include section 56a ( make treatment decision ) ; ( f ) the availability of alternative to detention and involuntary treatment ; ( g ) take - up of independent mental health advocacy ; ( h ) the cultural appropriateness of independent mental health advocacy ; ( i ) access to and use of advance choice document ; ( j ) what step will be take to reduce racial disparity and other disparity base on protect characteristic in that unit or service . ( 3 ) where a responsible person be appoint in relation to all of the mental health unit operate by a relevant health organisation , the responsible person must publish a single policy under subsection ( 1 ) in relation to those unit or service . ( 4 ) before publish a policy under subsection ( 1 ) , the responsible person must — ( a ) consult any person that the responsible person consider appropriate ; ( b ) have regard to the follow matter — ( i ) the view , wish and feeling of people from ethnic minority community who have be detain ; ( ii ) the view , wish and feeling of people with other protect characteristic who have be detain . ( 5 ) the responsible person must keep under review any policy publish under this section . ( 6 ) the responsible person may from time to time revise any policy publish under this section and , if this be do , must publish the policy as revise . ( 7 ) if the responsible person consider that any revision would amount to a substantial change in the policy , the responsible person must consult any person that the responsible person consider appropriate before publish the revise policy . 120 g training in racial disparity and other disparity base on protect characteristic ( 1 ) the responsible person for each mental health unit or service must provide training for staff that relate to address racial disparity and other disparity base on protect characteristic in that unit or service . ( 2 ) the training provide under subsection ( 1 ) must include training on the topic cover in section 120f ( 2 ) . ( 3 ) subject to subsection ( 4 ) , training must be provide — ( a ) in the case of a person who be a member of staff when this section come into force , as soon as reasonably practicable after this section come into force , or ( b ) in the case of a person who become a member of staff after this section come into force , as soon as reasonably practicable after they become a member of staff . ( 4 ) subsection ( 3 ) do not apply if the responsible person consider that any training provide to the person before this section come into force or before the person become a member of staff — ( a ) be give sufficiently recently , and ( b ) be of an equivalent standard to the training provide under this section . ( 5 ) Refresher training must be provide at regular interval whilst a person be a member of staff . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 5 ) " refresher training " mean training that update or supplement the training provide under subsection ( 1 ) . 120h annual report by the Secretary of State ( 1 ) as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each calendar year , the Secretary of State must conduct a review in consultation with relevant body with commission function on the use of treatment and detention measure contain in the Mental Health Act 1983 break down by race and other demographic information . ( 2 ) have conduct a review under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must publish a report on the progress make in reduce inequality in treatment outcome and the use of detention measure in the use of this Act on people who have protect characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 . ' " this new clause require mental health unit and service to appoint a responsible person task with address racial disparity relate to function discharge under the Mental Health Act 1983 . new clause 14 — General duty to secure sufficient resource for service in the community — " ( 1 ) it be the general duty of integrate care board to ensure , insofar as be reasonably practical , that service in the community responsible for deliver care , treatment , or detention provision under the Mental Health Act 1983 and this Act have the necessary resource , include financial support , to meet service demand . ( 2 ) additional form of resource may be determine by integrate care board in consultation with relevant local authority or health care service provider and may include — ( a ) sufficient number of train medical professional ; ( b ) purpose - build facility for patient care ; ( c ) community service responsible for out - patient care . ( 3 ) each Integrated Care Board must conduct an assessment of its resource every two year to evaluate its ability to deliver service in the community effectively . ( 4 ) each Integrated Care Board must publish a report outline its finding upon complete the assessment in subsection ( 3 ) . the first report must be publish within one year of the passage of this Act . " this new clause place a general duty on integrate care board to ensure that service in the community have the necessary level of resource to meet demand on service to ensure that the provision of the Bill function as intend and to assess and report on this every 2 year . new clause 15 — report : statutory competency test for under - 16s — " within 12 month of day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must undertake a review of whether a statutory competency test for under - 16 in determine their ability to make a relevant decision would be expedient for the purpose of this Act or the Mental Health Act 1983 . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to undertake a review of whether a statutory competency test for under - 16s would be expedient for the purpose of this Bill and the Mental Health Act 1983 . new clause 16 — duty to promote mental health wellbeing — " after section 142b of the Mental Health Act 1983 , insert — ' duty to promote mental health wellbeing ( 1 ) it be a general duty of local authority and anybody in carry out function under this Act or the Mental Health Act 2025 to promote mental health wellbeing . ( 2 ) in carry out the duty under subsection ( 1 ) , local authority and commission body must have regard to — ( a ) the prevention of mental illness , ( b ) the promotion of positive mental health , ( c ) the reduction of stigma and discrimination associate with mental health condition , and ( d ) the provision of accessible and appropriate support service to individual experience mental health challenge . ( 3 ) local authority and commission body must publish an annual report outline the step take to discharge their duty under subsection ( 1 ) , include an assessment of — ( a ) progress in improve mental health wellbee in their area for person affect by the provision of this Act , and ( b ) any barrier to promote mental health wellbee for such person and propose action to address they . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may issue guidance on the discharge of the duty under subsection ( 1 ) , and local authority and commission body must have regard to such guidance . ' " this new clause would require local authority and commission body to promote and report annually on mental health wellbeing , with regard to any guidance publish by the Secretary of State . new clause 17 — funding and reporting — " ( 1 ) for each financial year until all section of this Act have come into force , of the total health service expenditure by the body ( take together ) in subsection ( 2 ) , the proportion which relate to mental health spending — ( a ) under the Mental Health Act 1983 , and ( b ) under this Act or which , in future , would be make under provision insert into the Mental Health Act 1983 by this Act , ( take together ) must not decrease . ( 2 ) the body be the Department of Health and Social Care , NHS England and integrate care board . " this new clause would require that mental health spending as a proportion of health service expenditure must not decrease in the implementation period of the Act . new clause 18 — Mental Health Commissioner — " after section 142b of the Mental Health Act 1983 , insert — ' Mental Health Commissioner 142C Independent Mental Health Commissioner : establishment ( 1 ) there be to be an office know as the Office of the Mental Health Commissioner . ( 2 ) the Office in subsection ( 1 ) must be establish by the Secretary of State three month after the day on which the Mental Health Act 2025 be pass . ( 3 ) the Office of the Mental Health Commissioner will be lead by an individual appoint by the Secretary of State title the " Independent Mental Health Commissioner " . ( 4 ) the role in subsection ( 3 ) be refer to as the " Mental Health Commissioner " . ( 5 ) the Mental Health Commissioner may appoint staff to the Office of the Mental Health Commissioner they consider necessary for assist in the exercise of their function in section 142D . 142D Functions of the Commissioner ( 1 ) the Mental Health Commissioner be responsible for oversee the implementation and operability of function discharge by relevant body and person under the provision of this Act , the Mental Health Act 1983 , and the Mental Capacity Act 2025 particularly regard the provision of treatment , care , and detention of people with a mental disorder . ( 2 ) the Mental Health Commissioner must publish an annual report on the use of function discharge under this Act , which must assess — ( a ) the quality of mental health care treatment provide by relevant service ; ( b ) the accessibility of mental health care treatment service ; ( c ) the relationship between mental health and the criminal justice system ; ( d ) inequality of mental health care provision regard protect characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 ; ( e ) the use and effectiveness of detention measure under this Act , include but not limit to Community Treatment Orders , for the purpose of therapeutic benefit outline in section 1 ( 2b ) ; ( f ) challenge surround stigma of mental health condition ; ( g ) the accessibility of advice and support to mental health service user , their family and carer on their legal right ; ( h ) other issue deem appropriate by the Mental Health Commissioner . ( 3 ) in fulfil their duty under subsection ( 1 ) , the Mental Health Commissioner may review , and monitor the operation of , arrangement fall within subsection ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) for the purpose of ascertain whether , and to what extent , the arrangement be effective in promote the principle in section 118 ( 2B ) of this Act . ( 4 ) subject to any direction from the Secretary of State , the Commissioner may take action necessary or expedient in connection for the purpose of their function . ( 5 ) this may include — ( a ) collaborate with health service , public authority , charitable organisation , and other relevant entity , include NHS body , the Care Quality Commission , and the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ; ( b ) ensure enforcement authority and public body under the Mental Health Act 1983 have the necessary capacity and resource to adequately discharge duty under the Mental Health Act 1983 and this Act . 142E Appointment , Tenure , and remuneration of the Mental Health Commissioner ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision for the appointment , tenure , removal , and general term of appointment of the Mental Health Commissioner . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may also by regulation determine the Commissioner ' s remuneration , allowance , and pension entitlement . 142f Examination of case ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , make provision for the examination by the Mental Health Commissioner of the case of those who be detain under this Act receive treatment by authorise mental health care provider . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , provide for the Office of the Mental Health Commissioner to access and examine relevant datum on mental health treatment provision hold by NHS England and any other authority the Secretary of State consider appropriate . 142 G Regulations a statutory instrument contain regulation under section 142E and 142f may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ' " this new clause establish the office of the Mental Health Commissioner and make provision for relevant duty and responsibility . new clause 19 — duty to provide advice and support to family and carer — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 117B insert — ' 117c After - care : provision of support and advice to family and carer ( 1 ) the responsible integrate care board must ensure that , as part of the provision of after - care service under section 117 of this Act , advice and support be offer to the family or carer of the person discharge where the person consent . ( 2 ) this support must include — ( a ) information about the person ' s condition and recovery ; ( b ) guidance on how to support their recovery at home and avoid relapse ; ( c ) access to financial , housing , and social care advice service relevant to the situation of the person ' s family ; and ( d ) procedure for family member or nominate person to notify the integrate care board of concern that the person be at future risk of detention under Part 2 of this Act . ( 3 ) where a concern be raise under subsection ( 2 ) ( d ) , the integrate care board must — ( a ) consider whether the individual meet criterion to be include on the register of person at risk under section 125d of this Act ; and ( b ) take reasonable step to involve the family or nominated person in planning of subsequent support , subject to — ( i ) the person ' s consent ; or ( ii ) if they lack capacity , the person ' s good interest . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must publish guidance under section 125B of this Act on the format and provision of support under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) . ' " this new clause would require the integrate care board , as part of the aftercare service offer under the Mental Health Act 1982 , to offer support and advice to the family or carer of the person be discharge from treatment . new clause 21 — assessment for admission : clinician with outstanding complaint — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part II ( Compulsory Admission to Hospital and Guardianship ) , after section 6 insert — ' 6a Assessment for admission : clinician under investigation ( 1 ) for the purpose of the write recommendation require under section 2 ( 3 ) or and 3 ( 3 ) of this Act , a recommendation may not be make by a medical practitioner who be , at the time of the assessment or write statement — ( a ) under investigation by the General Medical Council or the hospital due to concern relate to the medical practitioner ' s care of the patient be assess ; or ( b ) subject to a complaint to the General Medical Council or the hospital by the patient or the patient ' s close associate . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision under this section . ' " this new clause would prevent a patient from be assess to be detain by a doctor under investigation by the GMC or hospital trust , or subject to a complaint , in relation to their care of that patient . new clause 22 — Veterans ' Mental Health Oversight Officer — " after section 142b of the Mental Health Act 1983 insert — ' veteran ' Mental Health Oversight Officer 142C Veterans ' Mental Health Oversight Officer : establishment ( 1 ) the Secretary of State shall appoint a Veterans ' Mental Health Oversight Officer ( " the Officer " ) to oversee the treatment and care of veteran under this Act . ( 2 ) the Officer shall — ( a ) oversee the case of veteran who be — ( i ) at risk of detention under this Act ; ( ii ) currently detain under this Act ; or ( iii ) follow detention under this Act , subject to community or outpatient treatment or other post - discharge mental health provision ; ( b ) advocate for mental health assessment and care tailor to veteran ' service - relate experience ; ( c ) collaborate with mental health professional , veteran ' service , legal representative , and third - sector organisation to safeguard veteran ' right and well - being within relevant treatment setting ; ( d ) promote diversion from detention where clinically appropriate , include the use of veteran - specific support service ; and ( e ) submit an annual report to Parliament detail — ( i ) detention rate of veteran under this Act ; ( ii ) outcome and recidivism rate for veteran detain under this Act ; ( iii ) recommendation for service improvement . ( 3 ) in this section — " veteran " refer to a person who have serve or currently serve in the armed force of the United Kingdom or a Commonwealth nation ; " relevant health authority " include NHS England , regional NHS board , or their successor . ' " this new clause introduce a dedicated oversight role for veteran within the framework of the Mental Health Bill , recognise that service personnel have unique need and experience that need to be consider in mental health care and detention decision . new clause 23 — Mental Health Act : interim support for a child or adolescent at risk of detention — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 33 , insert — ' 33a interim support for child and adolescent patient ( 1 ) where a child or young person ( " p " ) be refer to Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services and — ( a ) p have not yet attend their first appointment , and ( b ) p be at risk of detention under this Part , in the opinion of a family member or close associate , the responsible authority must ensure that interim support be available . ( 2 ) interim support under this section must include at least one of — ( a ) regular contact with a family support worker ; ( b ) access to GP appointment ; ( c ) regular contact with a school nurse or equivalent healthcare professional ; or ( d ) access to a peer support group , youth group , or youth club offer appropriate emotional support . ' " this new clause would ensure adequate interim support for child at risk of detention under Part II the Mental Health Act while await an appointment with Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services ( CAMHS ) . new clause 24 — report : mental health service for child and young people — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 18 month of pass this Act , prepare and lie before Parliament a report on the provision of specialist mental health service for patient age under 18 . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must include an assessment of — ( a ) the number of patient age under 18 receive specialist mental health service ; ( b ) the availability of specialist mental health service base outside of hospital setting ; ( c ) any gap in care and support experience by patient age under 18 ; ( d ) the Secretary of State ' s conclusion as to whether there be sufficient resource to deliver mental health service for patient age under 18 ; ( e ) the view of child , young people and family with experience of receive specialist mental health service . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) " specialist mental health service for patient age under 18 " mean — ( i ) inpatient mental health service specifically design for individual age under 18 year , include specialist eat disorder service ; ( ii ) community - base mental health service specifically design for individual age under 18 year as an alternative to inpatient care . ( b ) " resource to deliver mental health service " include — ( i ) finance ; ( ii ) appropriate train medical professional ; ( iii ) appropriate facility for patient care . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to review and report on the availability of specialist mental health service for patient under 18 . new clause 25 — determination of competency for person under 16 — " ( 1 ) for the purpose of this Act , a person age under 16 ( refer to in this section as a child ) be able to make a relevant decision if they can — ( a ) understand the information relevant to the decision ; ( b ) retain that information ; ( c ) use or weigh that information as part of the process of make a decision ; and ( d ) communicate their decision ( whether by talk , use sign language or any other mean ) . ( 2 ) where a child be able to make a relevant decision in accordance with paragraph ( 1 ) above , that child will be competent for the purpose of this Act . ( 3 ) a child be not to be regard as unable to understand the information relevant to a decision if he be able to understand an explanation of it give to he in a way that be appropriate to his circumstance ( use simple language , visual aid or any other mean ) . ( 4 ) a person determine a child ' s ability to make a relevant decision under this section must — ( a ) have due regard to Article 12 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the child , and ( b ) be able to show reasonable ground for their belief that the child be or be not able to make a relevant decision . " this new clause insert a competency test for determine a child ' s ability to make a relevant decision . new clause 26 — duty to establish carer liaison service — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part x ( Miscellaneous and Supplementary ) , after section 133 insert — ' 133a Duty to establish carer liaison service ( 1 ) the manager of every hospital provide service under this Act must establish and maintain a dedicated carer liaison service . ( 2 ) a service establish under this section must provide — ( a ) support to unpaid carer when a patient for whom they provide care be — ( i ) await admission to hospital for treatment under the Act ; ( ii ) receive treatment in hospital under the Act ; ( iii ) set to be discharge from a hospital where they have be receive treatment under this Act ; ( b ) timely and accessible information regard the discharge of the patient they care for , include detail of — ( i ) the patient ' s discharge plan ; and ( ii ) aftercare arrangement under section 117 of this Act ; ( c ) support for unpaid carer to identify their own need and connect to relevant local service for post - discharge support , include local authority adult social care service , general practitioner , and local carer ' centre ; ( d ) facilitation of effective communication and collaboration between unpaid carer and the patient ' s multi - disciplinary clinical team regard the discharge process ; ( e ) assistance to unpaid carer in develop or update a carer ' s support plan in the context of the patient ' s discharge , include guidance on — ( i ) their right to assessment and support as carer ( ii ) their participation in education or employment ; ( iii ) available counselling service ; ( iv ) support in planning for emergency in relation to the patient ; ( v ) benefit for the carer and patient ; and ( vi ) other form of local support ; and ( f ) service to ensure that the perspective of the unpaid carer , as a key provider of support , be consider during discharge planning , where appropriate and with due regard to patient confidentiality and consent . ' " this new clause would require hospital to establish a dedicated liaison service for the carer of patient detain under the Mental Health Act . new clause 27 — Duty to identify child of patient receive treatment — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part x ( Miscellaneous and Supplementary ) , after section 133 insert — ' 133B Duty of manager of hospital to identify child of patient ( 1 ) where a patient liable to be detain under this Act be in a hospital or registered establishment , the manager of the hospital or registered establishment shall take such step as be practicable to identify child of the patient . ( 2 ) the manager must ensure , where child of patient be identify , that — ( a ) information be provide to the family about support available for the child ; ( b ) the appropriate practitioner consider whether the child might be a young carer and whether they might benefit from additional support include — ( i ) a Young Carers ' need Assessment under section 17za of the Children Act 1989 , or ( ii ) additional support from their local authority or local young carer service . ' " this new clause would require hospital to identify child of patient and provide support or provide guidance on available support to they , particularly if they be a young carer . new clause 28 — duty to mitigate adverse effect of compulsory measure on parental relation — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 131A , insert — ' 131B Duty to mitigate adverse effect of compulsory measure on parental relation ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) below applie — ( a ) where — ( i ) a child be subject to any measure authorise by virtue of this Act ; and ( ii ) the measure will or will be likely to impair the personal relation or diminish direct contact between the child and any person with parental responsibility in relation to the child ; or ( b ) where — ( i ) a person with parental responsibility in relation to a child be subject to any measure authorise by virtue of this Act ; and ( ii ) the measure will or will be likely to impair the personal relation or diminish direct contact between that person and the child . ( 2 ) every person have function by virtue of this Act shall take such step as be practicable and appropriate to mitigate the impairment or diminution refer to in this section or , as the case may be , the likelihood of that impairment or diminution . ( 3 ) in this section — " child " have the meaning give by section 105 of the Children Act 1989 ; and " parental responsibility " have the meaning give by section 3 of the Children Act 1989 . ' " this new clause would create a duty to mitigate the adverse effect of compulsory treatment under the Mental Health Act 1983 on relation between parent and their child , mirror provision in the Mental Health ( Care and Treatment ) ( Scotland ) Act 2003 . new clause 29 — age - appropriate treatment for child — " ( 1 ) Section 131a of the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 1 ) , insert — ' ( 1A ) a patient to whom this section apply must not be detain in , or admit to , an adult ward unless the manager of the hospital consider that — ( a ) there be exceptional circumstance which justify the patient ' s detention in , or admission to , an adult ward ; and ( b ) the decision be in accordance with the good interest of the child . ' ( 3 ) after subsection ( 3 ) , insert — ' ( 3A ) where a patient to whom this section apply have be detain in , or admit to , an adult ward , the manager of the hospital must record in write the reason for the admission , include — ( a ) the reason , or reason , why other option for accommodation be not available or suitable for the patient ; ( b ) detail of the measure to be take by the hospital to ensure that , while the patient be detain or otherwise accommodate in the adult ward , the patient be provide with care in a safe environment ; and ( c ) unless it have be determine that an adult ward be the most appropriate environment for the patient in accordance with subsection ( 1A ) , the step be take by the hospital to transfer the patient to more appropriate accommodation . ( 3b ) where a patient to whom this section apply be — ( a ) detain in , or admit to , an adult ward or in a local authority other than the local authority in which the patient be ordinarily resident ; and ( b ) the detention or admission be of more than 24 consecutive hour ' duration , the manager of the hospital must notify the regulatory authority immediately , set out why they consider that the requirement under subsection ( 1A ) above be meet and provide the information set out in subsection ( 3A ) . ( 3c ) subsection ( 3d ) apply when — ( a ) the manager of a hospital accommodate a patient to whom this section apply in an adult ward for a consecutive period of at least 28 day ; or ( b ) detain or admit a patient to whom this section apply who — ( i ) be ordinarily resident immediately before be detain or admit in the area of a local authority other than the local authority within whose area the hospital be situate , or ( ii ) be not ordinarily resident within the area of any local authority . ( 3d ) where this subsection apply , the manager of the hospital must immediately inform the appropriate officer of the responsible local authority — ( a ) of the patient ' s detention or admission , and ( b ) when the patient ' s detention or admission cease . ' ( 4 ) leave out subsection ( 4 ) and insert — ' ( 4 ) in this section — ( a ) " adult ward " mean a ward in a hospital to which person age 18 or over be detain in or admit to ; ( b ) " the appropriate officer " mean — ( i ) in relation to a local authority in England , their director of child ' s service , and ( ii ) in relation to a local authority in Wales , their director of social service ; ( c ) " hospital " include a registered establishment ; and ( d ) " the responsible authority " mean — ( i ) the local authority appear to the manager of the hospital to be the authority within whose area the child be ordinarily resident immediately before be detain or admit , or ( ii ) where it appear to the manager of the hospital that the patient be not ordinarily resident within the area of any local authority , the local authority within whose area the hospital be situate . ' " this new clause seek to ensure that child be only place on adult ward where there be exceptional circumstance , and it be in their good interest . it include procedural safeguard for determine the reason behind ( and suitability of ) admit a child to a hospital environment in which adult be simultaneously accommodate or in an out of area placement , along with notification requirement . new clause 30 — application in respect of patient already on hospital ground — " ( 1 ) section 5 of the Mental Health Act 1983 ( application in respect of patient already in hospital ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after ' or , ' insert ' that the patient have attend a hospital or be bring to a hospital to seek help or admission as a patient or , ' . ( 3 ) after subsection ( 2 ) , insert — ' ( 2A ) if , in the case of a patient who — ( a ) be an outpatient in hospital ; or ( b ) have attend hospital to seek treatment as an outpatient ; or ( c ) have attend hospital to seek admission as an inpatient , it appear to the register medical practitioner assess the patient that an application ought to be make under this Part of this Act for the admission of the patient to hospital , the register medical practitioner may furnish to the manager a report in writing to that effect ; and in any such case the patient may be detain in the hospital for a period of 72 hour from the time when the report be so furnished . ' ( 4 ) in subsection ( 3 ) , after ' ( 2 ) ' insert ' or ( 2A ) ' . " this new clause would allow people who have attend or be bring to a hospital to seek help or admission as a patient to be detain for assessment under the Mental Health Act . new clause 31 — costed plan to ensure community provision for individual with learn disability and autism who be at risk of detention — " ( 1 ) within 18 month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must publish a fully cost plan for how Integrated Care Boards and local authority will ensure provision of adequate community service for individual with learn disability and autistic people who be at risk of detention under Part 2 of the Mental Health Act 1983 . ( 2 ) as part of the development of that plan , a formal consultation process must take place to determine how the decision to enact the relevant part of this Act will be make . ( 3 ) the consultation must include input from relevant stakeholder , include — ( a ) individual with learn disability and autistic people ; ( b ) carer for people with learn disability and autistic people ; ( c ) healthcare professional ; and ( d ) advocacy group . " this new clause would require a cost plan to ensure that icb and local authority be able to provide adequate community service for individual with learn disability and autistic people at risk of detention under Part 2 of the 1983 Act , inform by a consultation with a range of stakeholder . new clause 32 — Mandatory Independent Care ( Education ) and Treatment Reviews for patient detain in long - term segregation — " in the Mental Health Act 1983 , after section 142D ( insert by section 52 of this Act ) insert — ' 142E Mandatory Independent Care ( Education ) and Treatment Reviews for patient detain in long - term segregation ( 1 ) a notification of any use of long - term segregation for a patient detain under this Act must be issue to the Care Quality Commission , the hospital ' s Board of Directors and the relevant NHS Commissioner within 72 hour of the person be place in long - term segregation . ( 2 ) upon receipt of a notification under subsection ( 1 ) , the Care Quality Commission must appoint a qualified professional to conduct an Independent Care ( Education ) and Treatment Review . ( 3 ) the independent reviewer must — ( a ) conduct a face - to - face assessment of the patient , ( b ) consult with the patient ' s family or carer , where appropriate , ( c ) review the patient ' s care and treatment plan , include the rationale for continued segregation , and ( d ) assess whether alternative , include ward or community - base alternative , be consider prior to the implementation of long - term segregation . ( 3 ) where the assessment under subsection ( 3 ) ( d ) reveal that alternative be not adequately consider , the independent reviewer may require the detaining organisation to — ( a ) provide justification for this omission , and ( b ) outline step to ensure that alternative option be consider in future case . ( 4 ) the independent reviewer have authority equivalent to a second opinion appoint doctor to — ( a ) confirm the appropriateness of the long - term segregation , ( b ) recommend amendment to the treatment plan , and ( c ) require alternative intervention if long - term segregation be deem inappropriate . ' " this new clause require independently chair review for any person detain in long - term segregation , in line with the recommendation of Baroness Hollins ' report on solitary confinement for people with autism and learn disability . new clause 33 — Mandatory Independent Care ( Education ) and Treatment Reviews for patient with autism or learning disability detain for more than 5 year — " in the Mental Health Act 1983 , after section 142D ( insert by section 52 of this Act ) insert — ' 142E Mandatory Independent Care ( Education ) and Treatment Reviews for patient with autism or learning disability detain for more than 5 year ( 1 ) where a person with autism or a learn disability have be subject to compulsory detention under this Act , include by virtue of a community treatment order , for a continuous period of 5 year or more , the Care Quality Commission must appoint a qualified professional to conduct an Independent Care ( Education ) and Treatment Review ( ICETR ) of that person ' s care and treatment . ( 2 ) the independent reviewer must — ( a ) conduct a face - to - face assessment of the patient , ( b ) consult with the patient ' s family or carer , where appropriate , ( c ) review the patient ' s care , education ( where applicable ) , and treatment plan , include the rationale for continued detention or the continuation of a community treatment order , and ( d ) assess whether alternative to continue compulsory detention , include community - base or less restrictive option , have be adequately consider . ( 3 ) the Care Quality Commission must ensure that a further ICETR be conduct at interval of not more than 12 month for so long as the person remain subject to compulsory detention under this Act or to a community treatment order . ( 4 ) where the assessment under subsection ( 2 ) ( d ) reveal that alternative to continue detention or community treatment be not adequately consider , the independent reviewer may require the detaining organisation or responsible commissioner to — ( a ) provide justification for this omission , and ( b ) outline step to ensure that alternative option be fully consider in future review . ' " this new clause provide for a new process with independently chair review for any patient with autism or a learn disability subject to detention or community treatment order for long period of time . new clause 34 — ground for detention — " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 2 ( admission for assessment ) , in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) omit the ' and ' at the end of paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) for paragraph ( b ) substitute — ' ( b ) there be a risk of serious harm to the health or safety of the patient or of another person ; and ( c ) give the nature or degree of the harm , the patient ought to be so detain . ' ( 3 ) in section 3 ( admission for treatment ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for paragraph ( c ) and ( d ) substitute — ' ( b ) there be a risk of serious harm to the health or safety of the patient or of another person unless the patient be so detain , ( c ) it be necessary , give the nature or degree of the harm , for the patient to receive medical treatment , ( d ) the necessary treatment can not be provide unless the patient be detain under this Act , and ( e ) appropriate medical treatment be available for the patient . ' ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( i ) in paragraph ( a ) , for ' ( d ) ' substitute ' ( e ) ' ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) , for ' ( c ) ' substitute ' ( b ) to ( d ) ' ( 4 ) in section 5 ( 4 ) ( detention for six hour pende application for admission ) , for paragraph ( a ) ( but not the ' and ' at the end ) substitute — ' ( a ) that there be a risk of serious harm to the health or safety of the patient or of another person unless the patient be immediately restrain from leave the hospital ; ' ( 5 ) in section 20 ( renewal of authority for detention of patient detain in pursuance of application for admission for treatment etc ) , in subsection ( 4 ) , for paragraph ( c ) and ( d ) substitute — ' ( b ) there be a risk of serious harm to the health or safety of the patient or of another person unless the patient receive medical treatment , ( c ) it be necessary , give the nature or degree of the harm , for the patient to receive medical treatment , ( d ) the necessary treatment can not be provide unless the patient continue to be liable to be detain , and ( e ) appropriate medical treatment be available for the patient . ' ( 6 ) the amendment make by subsection ( 5 ) , so far as relate to person who be liable to be detain by virtue of Part 3 of the Mental Health Act 1983 , apply in relation to such a person whether the person become so liable before or after the come into force of this section . " this new clause be intend to replace Clause 5 ( see Amendment 43 ) . it would remove from the criterion for detention any reference to ' likelihood ' or ' may be cause ' , replace those word with language relate to an individual ' s risk , in order to simplify a psychiatrist ' s assessment of a patient ' s level of risk . new clause 35 — community treatment order : condition — " ( 1 ) section 17b of the Mental Health Act 1983 ( Conditions ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — ' ( 8 ) the responsible clinician must ensure that a community treatment order complie with the code of practice as set out in section 118 ( 2B ) of this Act . ( 9 ) a community treatment order have a maximum duration of 12 month , unless the condition set out in subsection ( 10 ) apply . ( 10 ) the responsible clinician may extend the duration of a community treatment order beyond 12 month only after the responsible clinician have — ( a ) consult the patient , the patient ' s nominate person , and any relevant mental healthcare professional involve in the patient ' s treatment or care planning ; ( b ) undertake a review to evaluate the ongoing necessity and therapeutic benefit of the community treatment order ; and ( c ) consult a General Medical Council register psychiatrist regard the condition of the community treatment order and obtain their write agreement that an extension be necessary and in accordance with the principle set out in section118 ( 2B ) . ( 11 ) a tribunal may recommend that the responsible clinician consider whether to extend , vary , or terminate the duration and condition of a community treatment order . ( 12 ) a community treatment order with a duration of less than 12 month be not subject to the condition set out in subsection ( 10 ) . ( 13 ) where a community treatment order be extend beyond a period of 12 month , the order must be review at interval not exceed six month from the date of the extension , in accordance with the requirement set out in subsection ( 10 ) . ( 14 ) at the conclusion of the initial 12 month period or of any extended period , the responsible clinician must undertake a review to assess the effectiveness of the community treatment order at comply with the code of practice set out in section 118 ( 2B ) of this Act . ' " this new clause would set out condition for the extension of a community treatment order beyond 12 month , and would require such an order to comply with the Mental Health Act ' s code of practice . new clause 36 — age appropriate treatment for child — " ( 1 ) Section 131a of the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 1 ) , insert — ' ( 1A ) a patient to whom this section apply must not be detain in , or admit to , an adult ward unless the manager of the hospital consider that — ( a ) there be exceptional circumstance which justify the patient ' s detention in , or admission to , an adult ward , and ( b ) the decision be in accordance with the good interest of the child . ' ( 3 ) for subsection ( 3 ) , substitute — ' ( 3 ) for the purpose of decide how to fulfil the duty under subsection ( 2 ) above , the manager must consult — ( a ) someone with parental responsibility for the child , unless it be not deem in the good interest of the patient for someone with parental responsibility to be consult ; and ( b ) a person who appear to they to have knowledge or experience of case involve patient who have not attain the age of 18 year which make the person suitable to be consult . ' ( 4 ) after subsection ( 3 ) , insert — ' ( 3A ) where a patient to whom this section apply have be detain in , or admit to , an adult ward , the manager of the hospital must record in write the reason for the admission , include — ( a ) the reason , or reason , why other option for accommodation be not available or suitable for the patient ; ( b ) detail of the measure to be take by the hospital to ensure that , while the patient be detain or otherwise accommodate in the adult ward , the patient be provide with care in a safe environment ; and ( c ) unless it have be determine that an adult ward be the most appropriate environment for the patient in accordance with subsection ( 1A ) , the step be take by the hospital to transfer the patient to more appropriate accommodation . ( 3b ) where a patient to whom this section apply be detain in , or admit to , an adult ward , and the detention or admission be of more than 24 consecutive hour ' duration , the manager of the hospital must notify the regulatory authority and the responsible authority within 48 hour of the patient ' s admission , set out why the manager of the hospital consider that the requirement under subsection ( 1A ) above be meet and provide the information set out in subsection ( 3A ) . ( 3c ) subsection ( 3e ) apply when the manager of a hospital accommodate a patient to whom this section apply on an adult ward for a consecutive period of at least 28 day . ( 3d ) Subsection ( 3e ) also apply where the manager of a hospital detain or admit a patient to whom this section apply who — ( a ) be ordinarily resident immediately before be detain or admit in the area of a local authority other than the local authority within whose area the hospital be situate , unless the hospital be less than 20 kilometre from the patient ' s ordinary residence ; or ( b ) be not ordinarily resident within the area of any local authority . ( 3e ) where this subsection apply , the manager of the hospital must inform the appropriate officer of the responsible local authority without delay — ( a ) of the patient ' s detention or admission , and ( b ) when the patient ' s detention or admission cease . ' ( 5 ) leave out subsection ( 4 ) and insert — ' ( 4 ) in this section — " adult ward " mean a ward in a hospital to which person age 18 or over be detain in or admit to " the appropriate officer " mean — ( a ) in relation to a local authority in England , their director of child ' s service , and ( b ) in relation to a local authority in Wales , their director of social service ; " hospital " include a registered establishment ; and " the responsible authority " mean — ( a ) the local authority appear to the manager of the hospital to be the authority within whose area the child be ordinarily resident immediately before be detain or admit , or ( b ) where it appear to the manager of the hospital that the patient be not ordinarily resident within the area of any local authority , the local authority within whose area the hospital be situate . ' " this amendment would restrict the circumstance in which a child can be admit to or detain on an adult ward for treatment under the Mental Health Act 1983 , require the hospital to notify the local authority when they have do so , or when they have place a child in a ward outside their local authority , and require that the parent or legal guardian of the child have access to their child and be consult about their admission to an adult ward . new clause 37 — Roadmap for the provision of sufficient service for autistic people and people with a learn disability — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before Parliament a roadmap to outline the Government ' s plan for ensure sufficient community service for autistic people and people with a learn disability to facilitate the operability of section 3 of this Act . ( 2 ) when develop the roadmap under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must engage with relevant stakeholder , include — ( a ) autistic people and people with a learn disability ; ( b ) carer for autistic people and people with a learn disability ; ( c ) health and care professional ; and ( d ) advocacy group . ( 3 ) within twelve month of the publication of a roadmap under subsection ( 1 ) above and annually thereafter , the Secretary of State must publish a monitoring statement on progress make towards implement the roadmap , include its target and milestone . " this new clause would require the Government to publish a roadmap outline its plan for ensure sufficient community service to enable the implementation of the Act ' s provision on end the detention of autistic people and people with a learn disability . Amendment 33 , clause 1 , page 1 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 2ba ) the Secretary of State shall ensure that each of the follow matter be address — ( a ) the provision of access to advocacy service for patient who have not attain the age of 18 , include patient admit to , or who remain in , hospital in pursuance of such arrangement as be mention in section 131 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the assessment of ' competence ' in relation to patient who have not attain the age of 16 ; ( c ) the preparation of care and treatment plan for patient who have not attain the age of 18 , include patient admit to , or who remain in , hospital in pursuance of such arrangement as be mention in section 131 ( 1 ) ; ( d ) matter to be take into account by an approve mental health professional when decide who to appoint as a nominated person in circumstance in which the patient have not attain the age of 18 and paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 of this Act apply ; ( e ) step to be take by manager of the hospital when section 131A of this Act apply include — ( i ) matter to be take into account when determine whether the patient ' s environment in hospital be suitable have regard to the patient ' s age ( include article 3 ( 1 ) of the UN Convention on the Rights of the child ( ' the good interest of the child ' ) ) ; ( ii ) measure to be take in case where a patient who have not attain the age of 18 have be admit to an environment that provide care and treatment to patient who have attain the age of 18 , include — ( a ) safeguard to ensure that the patient be provide with care in a safe environment ; and ( b ) action to be take to ensure that the patient be transfer to a more age - appropriate environment as soon as reasonably practicable ; ( f ) matter to be take into account when determine whether a patient who have not attain the age of 18 should be admit to a hospital for the purpose of treatment ( or assessment , or assessment follow by treatment ) of mental disorder which be locate in an area fall outside the local authority in which the patient be ordinarily resident , or otherwise live in , prior to such detention or admission and the safeguard to be follow if the patient be so admit ; ( g ) an explanation of the arrangement for the commissioning and provision of community and inpatient mental health service for those who have not attain the age of 18 . " this amendment insert commitment relate to child and young people which the Government make in the House of Lords into the section on principle to inform decision on the Code of Practice . amendment 2 , clause 4 , page 4 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( iv ) accommodation and relocation , and " . this amendment ensure the impact of accommodation and relocation be consider in care and treatment review for patient with autism or learn disability . amendment 6 , page 5 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( v ) the patient , ( vi ) the patient ' s nominated person , and ( vii ) the patient ' s independent mental health advocate . " this amendment would ensure that nominated person and independent mental health advocate receive copy of a care , education , and treatment review meeting report for child and young people with autism or a learn disability . amendment 7 , page 5 , line 31 , for " 12 " substitute " six " . this amendment would shorten the length between care and treatment review from 12 month to six month . amendment 8 , page 7 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( iii ) housing , and " . this amendment ensure that housing need be consider as part of care and treatment review meeting . amendment 9 , page 7 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( v ) the patient , ( vi ) the patient ' s nominated person , and ( vii ) the patient ' s independent mental health advocate . " this amendment ensure that nominate person and independent mental health advocate receive a copy of a care and treatment review meeting report . amendment 10 , page 7 , line 40 , for " 12 " substitute " six " . this amendment would shorten the length between care and treatment review from 12 month to six month . amendment 11 , page 8 , line 12 , leave out " must have regard to " and insert " have a duty to carry out " . this amendment ensure that integrate care board and local authority responsible for a patient ' s treatment and care have a duty to implement recommendation arise from a care and treatment review . Amendment 12 , page 8 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( ba ) the person be under 18 year old and satisfy the condition in ( b ) ( ii ) . " this amendment insert a new subsection that extend the duty on integrate care board to establish and maintain a register for those at risk of detention to all child and young people under the age of 18 . amendment 3 , page 9 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) the risk factor specify in regulation under subsection ( 5 ) must include — ( a ) homelessness ; ( b ) addiction ; ( c ) domestic abuse ; ( d ) miscarriage and traumatic birth ; ( e ) experience of armed conflict ; and ( f ) bereavement . " this amendment would specify risk factor for detention for people on the register of people at risk of detention under Clause 4 . amendment 36 , page 9 , line 20 , at end insert — " 125DA Registers : review ( 1 ) each integrate care board must make arrangement for ensure that care and treatment review meeting take place in relation to a person include in that board ' s register under section 125d if either — ( a ) the person consent to meeting take place and to the disclosure of information in accordance with the arrangement , and to the use of the information in accordance with this Act , or ( b ) the person lack capacity to give that consent but the board consider that it be nonetheless in the person ' s good interest for the meeting to take place , and information to be disclose and use , as mention in subsection ( a ) . ( 2 ) in this section ' care and treatment review meeting ' mean a meeting , convene by the integrate care board , for the purpose of review a person ' s case in order to — ( a ) identify any need of the person for — ( i ) social care provision , ( ii ) medical treatment , or ( iii ) financial support , and ( b ) make recommendation about — ( i ) whether and how any such need can be meet , ( ii ) how the person ' s safety can be ensure while they be at risk of detention , and ( iii ) how to reduce any risk of the person be detain in a hospital or registered establishment . ( 3 ) the arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) must include arrangement for — ( a ) the preparation of a report ( whether by the board or another person ) set out the need identify , and recommendation make , at each meeting , and ( b ) the provision of a copy of the report , within the period of 14 day begin with the day on which a meeting take place , to each of the follow person ( other than any who prepare the report ) — ( i ) the responsible commissioner , ( ii ) the person ' s responsible clinician , ( iii ) the integrate care board , and ( iv ) the local authority in whose area the person be ordinarily resident . ( the arrangement may also include provision authorise or require a copy of the report to be give to other person . ) ( 4 ) the integrate care board shall arrange appropriate provision within 28 day of receipt of a report under subsection ( 3 ) to address any need identify and recommendation make . ( 5 ) the arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) must include arrangement for ensure that — ( a ) the first meeting in relation to the person take place within the period of 28 day from their inclusion in the register under section 125d , and ( b ) a further meeting take place at least once in each successive period of 24 month for which the person remain on the register , begin with the day on which the first meeting take place . ( 6 ) a person may withdraw consent to the take place of meeting and to the disclosure of information in accordance with arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 7 ) the arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) must include provision about — ( a ) how consent to the take place of meeting or the disclosure of information may be withdraw ; ( b ) what be to happen when consent be withdraw ( which may include provision about who be to be inform ) . " this amendment replicate the provision for care and treatment review for patient under section 125A and 125B but for people with autism and learning disability who be at risk of detention , in order to identify need and ensure that those need can be meet without detain they . amendment 37 , page 9 , line 26 , after " 125d ( 3 ) ( c ) " insert " and 125DA ( 3 ) " . amendment 13 , page 9 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( c ) seek to ensure that the need of child and young people can be meet without detain they under Part 2 of this Act . " this amendment extend the duty on integrate care board and local authority to exercise their marketing function in a way that seek to ensure that child and young people ' s need can be meet without detain they . amendment 38 , page 9 , line 32 , after " 125d ( 3 ) ( d ) " insert " and 125DA ( 3 ) " . amendment 37 and 38 be consequential on amendment 36 and would ensure that integrate care board and local authority have regard to report from care and treatment review meeting with people on their register when commission service . amendment 24 , page 9 , line 38 , at end insert — " 125ZF Crisis accommodation : duty to assess and provide ( 1 ) in exercise its function under section 125E , an integrate care board must assess the need for appropriate crisis accommodation for autistic people and people with a learn disability within its area . ( 2 ) where such need be identify under subsection ( 1 ) , the integrate care board must ensure appropriate crisis accommodation be available , either — ( a ) within its area , or ( b ) through arrangement with other integrate care board for regional provision . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , ' appropriate crisis accommodation ' mean accommodation which — ( a ) be design to meet the specific need of autistic people and people with learn disability during period of acute mental health crisis ; ( b ) be staff by person with specialist training in support autistic people and people with learn disability ; ( c ) provide a safe alternative to detention under section 136 of this Act ; ( d ) be develop through co - production with autistic people and people with learn disability . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance about the assessment of need and provision of crisis accommodation under this section . " this amendment require icb to assess need and ensure provision of appropriate crisis accommodation , either locally or regionally , design specifically for autistic people and people with learn disability in crisis . amendment 14 , page 10 , line 5 , at end insert — " 125FA Report : sufficient commission service for people with autism or learning disability ( 1 ) within four month of the day on which the Mental Health Act 2025 be pass , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a plan to allocate sufficient resource for commission service regard the treatment and detention of autistic people and people with learn disability to ensure operability of provision in this Act . ( 2 ) the plan must include — ( a ) revise assumption of the number of autistic people and people with learn disability who may require detention under this Act ; ( b ) the action that the Secretary of State will take to ensure community service be available to meet demand after the 28 - day detention period ; ( c ) plan for datum collection to support commission sufficient service ; ( d ) plan to allocate appropriate resource to ensure operability of service , include , but not limit to , financial resource ; ( e ) plan to ensure that responsible body and individual receive the necessary training to carry out support , diagnostic , and treatment plan . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to present a plan within four month to ensure sufficient service , resource , datum , and training be in place to support autistic people and those with learn disability under the Act . Amendment 25 , page 10 , line 5 , at end insert — " 125FA Assessment : provision of service for autistic people and people with a learn disability ( 1 ) each financial year , an integrate care board must — ( a ) conduct an assessment of the availability and adequacy of service within its area for autistic people and people with a learn disability who have specify risk factor for detention under Part 2 of this Act ; ( b ) publish the result of the assessment ; and ( c ) publish an action plan to address any gap in provision identify . ( 2 ) the assessment under subsection ( 1 ) must include consideration of — ( a ) the availability of appropriate crisis accommodation ; ( b ) the availability of appropriate community support service ; ( c ) the adequacy of training for responsible body and individual to carry out support , diagnostic and treatment plan ; and ( d ) the experience of autistic people and people with a learn disability who have specify risk factor for detention under Part 2 of this Act and their family or carer . ( 3 ) the integrate care board must consult the following in conduct the assessment — ( a ) autistic people and people with a learn disability who have specify risk factor for detention under Part 2 of this Act and their family or carer ; ( b ) the relevant local authority or authority ; ( c ) provider of relevant service ; and ( d ) such other person as the integrate care board consider appropriate . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance about the conduct of assessment under this section , and integrate care board must have regard to this guidance . " this amendment would require integrate care board to conduct and publish annual assessment of the provision available for autistic people and people with learn disability at risk of detention and to prepare action plan to address any identify gap . amendment 26 , page 10 , line 5 , at end insert — " 125FA Report : service for autistic people and people with a learn disability ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of this section come into force and annually thereafter , prepare and lie before Parliament a report on — ( a ) the availability of appropriate accommodation for autistic people and people with a learning disability detain under this Act ; ( b ) the number of instance where appropriate accommodation could not be find within statutory timeframe ; ( c ) the progress towards implementation of section 3 and 4 of the Mental Health Act 2025 and the impact of any delay to implementation on autistic people and people with a learn disability ; and ( d ) progress make towards meet the need of autistic people and people with a learn disability without detain they under Part 2 of this Act . ( 2 ) in prepare the report , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) autistic people and people with a learn disability who have specify risk factor for detention under Part 2 of this Act and their family or carer ; ( b ) integrate care board ; ( c ) local authority ; and ( d ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to report annually to Parliament on the availability of appropriate placement for autistic people and people with learn disability and on progress implement the relevant provision of the Act . amendment 28 , page 10 , line 5 , at end insert — " 125FA Training standard ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision about training standard for responsible body and individual work with autistic people and people with a learn disability in — ( a ) mental health hospital ; ( b ) place of safety designate under section 135 or 136 of this Act ; ( c ) crisis accommodation ; and ( d ) such other setting as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) specify minimum training requirement ; ( b ) require training to be co - produce with autistic people and people with learn disability and their family or carer ; ( c ) require regular refresher training ; and ( d ) include training on de - escalation technique and alternative to restraint . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must publish guidance about the standard set out in regulation under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to produce guidance on minimum training standard for staff work with autistic people and people with learn disability in mental health setting and require that training be co - produce with people with live experience and their family . amendment 43 , page 11 , line 15 , leave out clause 5 . amendment 44 , clause 6 , page 12 , leave out line 26 to 29 and insert — " ( b ) there be a risk of serious harm to the health or safety of the patient or of another person unless the patient receive medical treatment , " . this amendment be link to NC34 Amendment 45 , page 12 , line 29 , for " degree and likelihood " substitute " or degree " . this amendment be link to NC34 Amendment 15 , page 12 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( c ) after subsection ( 6 ) insert — ' ( 6a ) any person subject to a community treatment order must be inform orally and in write at the time of the making of the order of their right to an independent mental health advocate under section 130a of this Act . ' " the amendment would ensure that people who be to be subject to a community treatment order would receive information about their right to advocacy . amendment 16 , clause 8 , page 14 , line 13 , after " treatment " insert " include the setting in which treatment take place , " . this amendment ensure that the definition of appropriate medical treatment include the setting in which treatment take place . amendment 17 , clause 18 , page 26 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may only be make to provide for circumstance where — ( a ) the treatment be immediately necessary to save the patient ' s life , ( b ) obtain a second opinion would cause a delay that place the patient at a significant and imminent risk of death or serious physical harm , and ( c ) the treatment be reversible . " the amendment limit the power to dispense with a second medical opinion for urgent electro - convulsive therapy to exceptional , life - threaten case , introduce periodic review of its use , and ensure transparency by prohibit retrospective application . amendment 4 , clause 21 , page 29 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( ab ) contain step to alleviate social and financial stressor contribute to the patient ' s risk of require detention in future ; and " . this amendment would require social and financial stressor be address in care and treatment plan . amendment 40 , page 29 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( c ) contain an assessment of the level of risk to public safety pose by the patient in the community . " this amendment would require consideration to be give to public safety in care and treatment plan . amendment 18 , page 29 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( iii ) the discussion of the person ' s finance and financial situation . " this amendment ensure that the care and treatment plan include matter relate to the patient ' s financial circumstance . amendment 1 , page 29 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) for the purpose of prepare a plan under this section , a discharge planning meeting must be hold . ( 4b ) a meeting under subsection ( 4A ) must include — ( a ) the patient ; ( b ) the patient ' s nominated person ; ( c ) any independent mental health advocate act for the patient ; ( d ) a representative of the integrate care board ; ( e ) a local housing officer ; ( f ) a local authority social worker ; ( g ) a representative from the Department for Work and Pensions ; and ( h ) any other person or agency involve in the patient ' s care or likely to support recovery in the community . ( 4c ) a care and treatment plan under this section must include — ( a ) action agree by relevant agency to support the patient ' s recovery ; ( b ) provision to address clinical , financial , housing , and social need ; ( c ) step to reduce the likelihood of readmission or further detention under this Act ; and ( d ) a record of any point of disagreement and how they be to be resolve . ( 4d ) where an agency list under subsection ( 4b ) fail to attend a discharge planning meeting , the responsible clinician must take reasonable step to obtain their input in writing and record it in the plan . ( 4e ) for the purpose of subsection ( 4A ) to ( 4d ) , the Secretary of State must issue guidance on good practice for discharge planning meeting and multi - agency collaboration . " this amendment would require the clinician prepare a care and treatment plan to hold a multi - agency planning meeting to inform it , and specify what must be include within the plan . amendment 19 , page 29 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the information authorise or require to be include in , or attach to , a care and treatment plan by virtue of regulation under subsection ( 3 ) must include provision to protect the patient ' s housing and accommodation during and immediately after they be subject to a care and treatment plan . " this amendment ensure that protection of housing and accommodation be consider as part of care and treatment plan . amendment 20 , page 30 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( g ) follow the patient turn 18 year of age during the course of a care and treatment plan . " this amendment ensure that individual turn 18 during a care and treatment plan have their plan review to maintain continuity of care while transition from child to adult service . amendment 39 , page 30 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( vii ) for a relevant patient who have not yet reach the age of 18 , the parent or legal guardian of the relevant patient , unless that be not deem in the good interest of the patient . ( 5A ) any care plan prepare under this section , if prepare for a relevant patient who have not yet reach the age of 18 , must include provision for the parent or legal guardian of the patient to be directly involve in the care and treatment of the relevant patient , unless such involvement be not in the good interest of the patient . ( 5b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5A ) , the parent or legal guardian must be give regular access to the relevant patient through attendance on the hospital ward . " this amendment would require a practitioner to consult the parent or legal guardian of a child patient when prepare the patient ' s care and treatment plan , require parental involvement in patient care through the plan , and enable those parent ( or guardians ) regular access to the patient on the hospital ward . Amendment 27 , page 29 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) where a patient have autism or a learn disability , the care and treatment plan must — ( a ) identify specific crisis prevention strategy appropriate to the patient ' s individual need ; ( b ) identify suitable crisis accommodation option in the event that the patient ' s current placement become unable to meet their need ; ( c ) specify how the patient ' s sensory need will be meet ; ( d ) specify communication approach appropriate to the patient ' s need ; and ( e ) record the view of the patient ' s family member or carer , where appropriate and with the patient ' s consent . " this amendment would ensure that care and treatment plan for patient with autism or learning disability include specific component address their particular need , include crisis prevention strategy and identification of suitable crisis accommodation option . amendment 22 , clause 45 , page 56 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) an ' advance choice document ' under subsection ( 5 ) should include consideration of the person ' s financial circumstance . " this amendment ensure that the advance choice document include matter relate to the patient ' s financial circumstance . amendment 32 , page 58 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) after subsection ( 3 ) , insert — ' ( 3za ) after - care provision under subsection ( 3 ) above may include , for patient who have not yet reach the age of 16 , appropriate early help service in the community . ' " this amendment would ensure that , when a tribunal be discharge a child who have experience a mental health crisis , the tribunal may recommend that they be refer to appropriate early help service as part of their after - care planning . amendment 29 , clause 46 , page 59 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) after subsection ( 6 ) , insert — ' ( 6a ) after - care service under this section may include provision for authorised community pharmacy to dispense emergency and ongoing medication in line with after - care plan . ( 6b ) community pharmacy provide service under subsection ( 6a ) must be — ( a ) give access to suitable training and resource ; ( b ) integrate into the local primary care team , with appropriate access to prescribing professional and multidisciplinary support ; and ( c ) give appropriate remuneration and reimbursement for provide after - care service . ( 6c ) responsible body must carry out due diligence of any pharmacy operator before authorise they to provide after - care service under this section . ( 6D ) due diligence check under subsection ( 6C ) must include ensure that — ( a ) the operator be not in significant arrear in respect of staff wage , supplier payment or other financial obligation ; ( b ) the operator can demonstrate the financial capacity to sustain additional location without compromise exist service ; and ( c ) the operator have an establish record of compliance with relevant regulatory and contractual requirement . ( 6E ) where due diligence check under subsection ( 6c ) and ( 6D ) determine that a pharmacy operator be fail in its exist financial obligation , the pharmacy operator must not be authorise to take on new after - care service location . ' " this amendment would allow community pharmacy to be reimburse for dispense medication under the aftercare provision of the Mental Health Act 1983 , and would ensure that they have access to relevant training , that they be integrate into the primary care team , and that the responsible body carry out due diligence check on their financial health . amendment 30 , page 59 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) after subsection ( 6 ) , insert — ' ( 6a ) after - care service provide under this section must include the availability of family support worker . ' " this amendment would require the provision of family support worker as part of the after - care provision under the Mental Health Act 1983 . amendment 31 , page 59 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) after subsection ( 6 ) , insert — ' ( 6a ) when determine the adequacy of after - care service for a specific patient , responsible body must take into account — ( a ) whether the patient live in a rural or urban area ; ( b ) associate travel time between the patient ' s residence and after - care service ; ( c ) the patient ' s level of contact with other in their community ; and ( d ) the view of local transport authority and operator and relevant community transport or volunteer group on level of accessibility to after - care service . ( 6b ) the responsible body must ensure the provision of outreach or visit service to isolated individual eligible for after - care under this section , include to those in remote or agricultural area . ' " this amendment would ensure that the need of individual live in rural area be account for when provide after - care service under the Mental Health Act 1983 , and that local transport operator be consult on how easy it be to access these service . government amendment 34 and 35 . amendment 41 , schedule 2 , page 77 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) where the patient have not yet reach the age of 16 ( the ' child patient ' ) , the nominate person must be a person with parental responsibility for the child patient , unless the factor set out in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) below apply . ( 4 ) a person who have parental responsibility for a patient under the age of 16 ( ' the parent ' ) must not be the nominated person if — ( a ) the parent be subject to a prohibit step order under section 8 of the Children Act 1989 ; ( b ) a local authority be take action under section 47 ( 8 ) of the Children Act 1989 to safeguard the child patient or otherwise protect the child patient ' s welfare due to concern about the parent ; or ( c ) the local authority have make enquiry under section 47 ( 1 ) of the Children Act 1989 and conclude that the child patient be suffer , or be likely to suffer , harm at the hand of the parent ( within the meaning of section 31 ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) of that Act ) . " this amendment would stipulate that the nominated person for a patient under the age of 16 must have parental responsibility for the patient , unless there be safeguard concern . amendment 42 , page 80 , line 13 , after " 2 ( 2 ) ) " insert " , have parental responsibility for the patient , subject to condition ( see paragraph 2 ( 3 ) and 2 ( 4 ) ) , " . this amendment be connect to Amendment 41 ; it would stipulate that the nominated person for a patient under 16 must have parental responsibility for the patient , unless there be safeguard concern about that parent . amendment 5 , page 86 , line 38 , at end insert — " 18a in section 130b ( arrangement in relation to independent mental advocate : England ) , after subsection ( 3 ) ( d ) , insert — ' ( e ) support the patient ' s carer and family member to prepare for the patient ' s discharge from hospital treatment , and ( f ) support the patient to access help with social and financial stressor that might otherwise increase their likelihood of future detention . ' " this amendment extend the support offer by Mental Health advocate to cover social and financial stressor and support for family carer and other member of the household when the patient be discharge . amendment 23 , schedule 3 , page 90 , line 32 , after " patient " insert " or English qualify informal patient under 18 " . this amendment extend the provision of opt - out advocacy service in England to informal in - patient under 18 . I be honour to open today ' s debate on Report and to have serve in Committee , where it be clear that member on both side of the House share a commitment to high - quality mental health care for those in crisis . I thank my colleague who also serve in Committee ; it be an informative and move discussion . it be that commitment to high - quality mental health care that underpin new clause 2 . it address a critical issue : the inconsistency and inadequacy of care in mental health unit across England . I be sure we have all hear distressing account of vulnerable individual be place in unit that be understaffed , unsafe and ill equip for recovery . family entrust the system with their love one during moment of crisis , only to find that trust undermine — not by a lack of compassion , but by a lack of national direction . new clause 2 seek to change that by establish a national strategy and annual reporting to ensure that every mental health unit be safe , well - staff and fit for purpose . in my Guildford constituency , a family recently share with I their experience of a love one ' s stay in a mental health facility . the unit be understaffed from the outset and ward be mixed in age and illness , with little therapeutic structure . there be no clear advocate or caseworker , and the family do not know whom to contact . they describe a system that , in their word , " dish out drug without improve mental health or wellbeing . " the setting be so short - staff that their love one be able to self - harm — an unacceptable failure in any care setting . new clause 2 aim to prevent such failure from recur . the Care Quality Commission have repeatedly raise concern about the safety of mental health ward , cite staff shortage , poor infrastructure and environment that be unfit for therapeutic care . in 2023 , the King ' s Fund report that 40 % of NHS mental health provider be rate " require improvement " or " inadequate " on safety — figure that would be intolerable elsewhere in the health system . the Health Services Safety Investigations Body have identify systematic risk in in - patient mental health care , include delay response to distress , inappropriate use of restraint and a lack of therapeutic staffing model . perhaps most starkly , the British Medical Journal report over 17 , 000 serious incident in mental health service between April 2022 and March 2023 . each one be a moment when care go seriously wrong . these be not just statistic ; they represent real people who deserve well . new clause 2 would require the Secretary of State to publish a national strategy within 12 month to ensure that all mental health unit meet or exceed " good " safety standard under the CQC framework , and to report annually to Parliament . it focus on three key area : recruitment , retention and training of staff ; safe staffing level and patient - to - staff ratio , especially during night and peak time ; and ongoing accountability through public reporting . the new clause would make patient safety a national obligation , not a postcode lottery . it be about responsibility and transparency . although the Bill modernise detention criterion and patient ' right , it do not explicitly require the Secretary of State to guarantee basic safety and staffing standard , and new clause 2 would fill that gap . some may worry that it would be too prescriptive or add bureaucracy , but it would not replace local management ; it would support it . it would build on the CQC ' s role by ensure that action be take when failing persist , and it would turn inspection finding into a driver of national improvement . on cost , unsafe care be already expensive . it lead to readmission , litigation , staff burnout and the loss of public trust . a national strategy would allow for smart investment , prevent failure rather than pay for they later . we have have decade of guidance and review , but what we have not have be statutory accountability . my new clause would deliver that . new clause 2 be focused , deliverable and urgently need . it complement the Bill by ensure that the right it enshrine be back by safe , well - staff and properly regulate environment . without it , we risk legislate for right in theory while leave patient unsafe in practice . by support it , we affirm that mental health care deserve the same national standard as any other branch of healthcare . I urge member to support new clause 2 and make safety , dignity and accountability a permanent part of our mental health law , and I look forward to the debate in this House today . many Sunderland family , include mine , share story of Cherry Knowle , the Sunderland borough asylum in my constituency , which open in 1895 . severe mental illness have always be a feature of society . thankfully , the legislative framework and service have develop somewhat since 1895 , but arguably they have not develop fast enough , particularly over the 42 year since the Mental Health Act 1983 be pass . at the start of my NHS career , I spend time shadow staff on the ward of the then Cherry Knowle , which in 2014 be replace by a much well facility in Hopewood Park in Ryhope in my constituency . to this day , 2 , 825 adult be detain under the Mental Health Act in Sunderland Central as a result of that facility . I commend the Government ' s work on this Bill in continue to develop the much - need right of patient subject to the Mental Health Act . today , I want to focus on new clause 35 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) , and new clause 37 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) , particularly on the community element of the Bill . the Government be rightly commit to parity of esteem between physical and mental health . as mental health service have develop in recent year , they have increasingly and rightly be deliver in the community , in the least restrictive environment possible , but for that to be do safely and appropriately , there need to be parity of esteem and access to community mental health service just as there be to physical health service , which be not currently the case . there be unacceptably long wait for community mental health . there be nearly 15 , 000 people wait over 18 month for community mental health treatment , which be eight time as many as for physical health treatment , yet the Government ' s 18 - week referral to treatment standard apply only to physical health condition and not to mental health . it be true that there be serious challenge methodologically in measure mental health wait , and we have to be careful not to introduce a target that distort clinical behaviour . however , if we be serious about parity of esteem , I urge the Government and all other to consider how to improve mental health waiting time and , indeed , the reporting of they . new clause 37 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock , address some of those challenge by request that the Secretary of State report on the adequacy of community service for people with autism and learning disability . she be absolutely right to highlight that , and it be the same for all patient subject to the Mental Health Act . a lack of resource in community service also have an impact on the implementation of community treatment order , and have the opportunity to review then adequately be key to their not feel like an ongoing sentence , as the charity Mind have highlight . new clause 37 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central , be to be commend in that it would ensure that community treatment order be sufficiently and robustly review . when I speak to a senior NHS mental health leader recently , he tell I that , through community service , the NHS already know nearly everyone who get into a mental health crisis or end up get section and detain in a mental health in - patient bed . improve mental health community service be key to improve the mental health of the nation , as be ensure that resource for mental health be use appropriately . the clinically lead review of mental health standard in 2022 under the last Government recommend a four - week access standard for mental health service , yet the current average wait be more like six week . as this legislation be operationalise , I would like to see work on how to bring down those wait . would the Minister reflect on that in his speech ? NHS England recently introduce six pilot for the transformation of community mental health service . some of that work be be deliver by my local mental health trust — the Cumbria , Northumberland , Tyne and Wear NHS foundation trust — and I think it show promise . as we consider these amendment to the Bill , I would be interested to see how the learning from those pilot can be take forward to far improve community mental health service . similarly , a community service call Mental Health together have be introduce in my area . do my hon . friend agree that the whole mental health system be so complex , with different practice in different part of the country , and that not have continuity and a standard across the country be a big issue for mental health ? my hon . friend be absolutely right and I thank he for his intervention . part of the issue around poorly report waiting time be that it be less easy to see that differential access than it would perhaps be in physical health service . indeed , over the year when specialist team have be set up — for example the early intervention and psychosis team and assertive outreach team , which I know my hon . friend know well give his professional background — they have be introduce with very good intention and to target specific need , but they sometimes make it more difficult for patient to get overall care rather than very specialist care for individual condition . I will not take any more time , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I will just say that the mantra of investment and reform apply to mental health service , as it should apply to all our health service . for we to make further progress in pursue parity of esteem between mental health and physical health , we not only need to consider these amendment today and pass the Bill to modernise the legislation , but ensure the Government have sufficient political priority on produce and improve mental health service . rise — member will have notice that many people be stand to speak and there be not a significant amount of time for the debate , so with the exception of Front - Bench contribution , there will be an immediate four - minute time limit . I call the shadow Minister . when we last debate the Bill on Second Reading , I say that protect someone ' s freedom for their own safety be not a licence to own their life , but a duty to help they find it again . that principle still guide we today , because good intention alone do not mend a troubled system . compassion without competence be not care ; it be sentiment without substance . on Second Reading , I speak of bridge and rough road , and of how resilience and recovery depend on the strength of the structure that carry people through their hard time . tonight , we return to that bridge . the question before we be not whether we believe in reform — after all , there be cross - party agreement on that — but whether the Government have build the foundation to make it stand . warm word be plentiful , but the reality be that too many people be still fall through the gap : detention be still present , community service be stretch , and family be leave navigate a maze of bureaucracy while wait for help that may never come . we all know that reform can not be deliver on aspiration alone . it require a delivery plan , a workforce and a system capable of learn from its own mistake . we know the chapter on delivery be miss from the 10 - year NHS plan and there be further risk tonight that we miss another opportunity . after all , the principle in the Bill be the right one . they be even on the face of the Bill — choice and autonomy , least restriction , therapeutic benefit , and treat the person as an individual — but those principle need power behind they and that power lie in delivery . this Report stage be our chance to turn those word into commitment . new clause 31 require the Government to publish a fully cost delivery plan within 18 month of the Act pass into law , set out how integrate care board and local authority will deliver adequate community service . crucially , the plan must be develop through consultation with those who know well . that be vital , because although we support the many aim of the Bill , the Government already have a pretty dismal record of announce reform without any credible plan to deliver they . let we take the ongoing NHS reorganisation . in March , Ministers make a surprise announcement of the abolition of NHS England and its absorption into the Department of Health and Social Care , yet six month on they can not say what it will cost , how many staff will be lose or how it will be pay for . the Health Service Journal report grow confusion inside the system and warning from NHS leader that the lack of clarity risk paralyse decision making . write question to the Government simply receive the answer " some upfront cost in the million " yet independent estimate say the cost be over £ 1 billion . even the chief executive , Sir Jim Mackey , point out that the Treasury must agree fund for integrate care board redundancy within week or the NHS will have to turn to a plan b . the same chaos be play out across integrate care board , with local leader warn that there be already destabilisation due to the 50 % reduction . if Ministers can not manage their own top - down reorganisation , why should anyone believe they can deliver a more ambitious overhaul of mental health service without a clear cost plan , especially when waiting list have rise in the last three consecutive month ? this Labour Government have already cut the proportion of spending on mental health . as Dr Lade Smith CBE , the president of the Royal College of Psychiatrists , say at the time : " it be illogical that the share of NHS funding for mental health service be be reduce at a time of soar need and significant staff shortage . " go on , she say that : " the proportion of NHS funding allocate to mental health service will decrease " , which will " equate to these vital service miss out on an estimate £ 300 million or more that they would have receive if their share … have be maintain . " it be a decrease in the proportion of the mental health investment standard for the first time in , I believe , nine year . it be incredibly concerning . it be hard - won , cross - party support that make that proportion go up over time . it be incremental , but it be start to make a difference to the system . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it would be helpful if the Government clarify whether that will continue in 2025 - 26 ? when Baroness Merron come to our Committee , she could not confirm that . if there be not go to be a continuation , the system need to know by now , frankly , so that it can prepare adequately for it . the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee be absolutely right . a simple answer from the Minister today , on Report , would go a long way to alleviate those fear from the mental health sector . I look forward to his response on that . amendment 40 would add a simple but important requirement that each care and treatment plan must include an assessment of the level of risk to public safety pose by the patient in the community . the purpose of the Bill be right ; the Government want to make the system more compassionate , therapeutic , patient - centre and modernise , and we strongly agree with that ambition . however , modernisation must go hand in hand with public confidence , and the public and patient themselves must know that every plan for treatment and discharge be root not only in care , but in safety . in Committee , I argue that the framework still omit one dimension , which be public safety . as far as I can see , there be still no explicit requirement in the Bill for clinician to assess and record the level of risk pose to the public . my hon . friend be make an excellent point . constituent have come to I about patient with schizophrenia , for example , who have be release before their psychosis have fully pass , with one such instance tragically end in the death of another resident . all of these situation could have be prevent if the patient have be keep safely in a bed until they be at a proper level of medication and the psychosis have pass . do the shadow Minister agree that that be something we need to take forward in this Bill ? it be a win - win for all party . I thank my hon . friend for raise that tragic case . those be the kind of case that this amendment seek to deal with . we have only to look at the tragic case of Nicola Edgington and Valdo Calocane to see how escalating risk happen , with huge consequence for the family , patient and victim . when I raise this matter in Committee , the Minister give a very thoughtful answer . he say that : " if any risk at all to public safety be perceive , that must be document … it be a basic expectation of the professional management of a particular patient that any risk identify to public safety and protection must be in there . " I welcome that . with amendment 40 , I be simply ask , if that be indeed the Government ' s position , why not make it clear in the Bill ? the Minister concede in Committee that " I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point on whether or not it should be in the Bill . I will come back to he on that , because I would be rather surprised if it be not make very clear somewhere that that be a basic expectation ; if it be not , that would obviously need to be look at , but I be reasonably confident that it be . " – – [ Official Report , Mental Health Public Bill Committee , 12 June 2025 ; c . 171 . ] unfortunately , expect in practice be not the same as require in law . we know from past review that there be a gap in the risk assessment and that communication can be too inconsistent . put such a requirement in statute would not be bureaucracy ; it would simply clarify that . the Minister may argue that it already exist in professional code , in the Mental Health Act code of practice or even in risk management framework , but the statutory duty do not . our amendment would put that duty squarely in the Bill . talk of safety , I will turn to new clause 29 , which would ensure that no child be place on an adult mental health ward except in truly exceptional circumstance , and only when it be demonstrably in their good interest . the Government argue that guidance already cover that , but this guidance have no tooth ; it can be ignore or inconsistently apply . again , guidance without legal backing be too easily ignore . that be why the Joint Committee on Human Rights argue in its letter that this part of the Bill need strengthen . the Minister also say that place these safeguard in legislation would remove flexibility for clinician in emergency , but new clause 29 do allow for exceptional circumstance ; it simply require that they be justified , record and subject to oversight . research from University College London find that there have be a 65 % increase in the number of child and young people admit to adult ward for mental health disorder , and this increase be sharp among teenage girl with eat disorder . they be the most vulnerable , and they be the one who bear the brunt of this . that be another reason why I be shocked that the mental health budget be decrease . I be see an increase across my constituency — and I be sure it be the same in many other — of girl in secondary school present with severe mental health issue , suicidal tendency and eat disorder , and they be desperately cry out for additional mental health support . my hon . friend be absolutely right that that support need to be there . fortunately , it be not the budget that be reduce but the proportion of funding , and it show the priority of this government when it come to mental health . I be concerned that without new clause 29 , a child may be harm or traumatise and place in an adult ward without proper justification — and it will be little comfort for the family to hear that guidance be breach . amendment 41 stand up for the simple but vital principle that when a child be detain under the Mental Health Act , the person legally recognise to act for they — their nominated person — should hold parental responsibility . only where there be legitimate safeguarding concern should that be set aside . at first glance , this may seem technical , but it speak to something profound about how the law view childhood , family and the balance between protection and autonomy . the Government be right to use the Bill to modernise the old " near relative " system , which be too rigid , too bind by bloodline and at time blind to the complexity of family life . under the Bill , however , a child under 16 deem competent could nominate any adult — that could be a 19 - year - old boyfriend or peer or someone exercise control — and once nominate , that person get full control . it be a legal authority . we need to ensure that protection be there for the person if there be a breakdown on the family side . [ interruption . ] I see that Madam Deputy Speaker be encourage I to wind up , so I will solidify my comment into a more erudite approach . the point be that in law this principle be already clear in the Children Act 1989 , which define it as the foundation stone of what family should look like . with this amendment , I believe we have solve the concern the Minister have at Committee stage about the state of a family in the modern era . in any other walk of life the legal framework exist , so why would we weaken it when it come to mental health ? we discuss the issue with A & E and the grey area there in Committee , and I be grateful to the Minister for meet beforehand to discuss they . I know that he take on my comment about solve the practicality , and I hope he will look at they seriously . for this House , there be no great moral burden than decide for someone who can not decide for themselves — where care end and where control begin . that be exactly what the House be address with this Bill : how to protect without diminish , how to act with compassion without surrender precision , and how to empower without impose . involuntary care must never be the reflex of a system , be it under pressure or out of principle . the House agree on this position ; the challenge be delivery . compassion demand more than good intention . it demand delivery , discipline and detail . with this Bill , the Opposition lay the challenge of delivery . it must be not just a pledge but a plan . the public will judge we all not just on how kindly this House speak , but on how faithfully it serve those who depend on we most . I will speak to new clause 28 and 36 and amendment 39 , which I table not just as an MP but as a father . after what my family have be through , I believe that any parent would do the same . yesterday , alongside the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , I have the privilege of hear Dr Kate Szymankiewicz speak about her daughter Ruth . she share not only the tragic circumstance of Ruth ' s death but the type of person Ruth be : her dream of become a vet , her kindness , and how friend describe she as a character straight out of an Enid Blyton novel . that be the Ruth her family remember and cherish . as parent , we become part of a world we never want to know . I be privileged to have meet Kate , but we agree that we wish our path have never cross because of what that mean . Ruth be admit to an in - patient facility for treatment of an eat disorder , but instead of receive the care she need , her family be shut out and allow only two two - hour visit per week . they spend more time travel than they do with their daughter . Ruth be just 14 year old when she fatally self - harm , just five month into her stay . three month from that date , my family be face with the same hospital , Huntercombe , as the only choice of a bed for our daughter . at that same hospital , when a child ask if they could have an extra type of jam for breakfast in the morning , they be tell it do not have the budget , and when ask why Minstrels be no long part of snack time , they be tell that they be eat too many . that be the problem with NHS - fund private provision : even at £ 900 a night , the operator plead poverty . my wife and I have two vivid memory of our young being prise from we without any warning . we think that be normal . six month of nasogastric tube feeding — we think that be normal . illegal restraint so bad that it cause post - traumatic stress disorder — we think that be normal . forget to feed our daughter 11 time — we start to realise that that be normal , but not acceptable . instead of wish to improve its practice , the hospital have accuse I of make this up . if a child be face any other physical illness such as cancer , or even something more short - term that require a hospital stay , parental visit and involvement be quite rightly see as a means of enhance care . I genuinely struggle to understand why our clinical consensus around mental health continue to support a model where already vulnerable child be isolate from their parent — the very people who know and love they most . child on these ward be treat as wilful — they be not ; they be child — and without empathy or sympathy . many consultant we encounter opt not to apply the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline . staff be poorly train and in fear of psychiatrist , who rule the roost and prevent people from speak up . the private equity firm be focus not on long - term treatment but just on turn mental health into money . my amendment do not seek to undermine the Bill ' s strength , nor the important work undertake by the Department . in fact , the cross - party support I have receive , include from the right hon . member for Salisbury , reflect how uncontroversial they be . the Minister and I have have robust and constructive discussion on the matter , but I ask he to confirm that he will do everything in his power to ensure the following . parent must not be shut out of their child ' s care , as evidence show that regular parental contact enhance care outcome . the placement of child on adult mental health ward under the Mental Health Act must be limit strictly to exceptional circumstance , and practitioner must be actively compel where appropriate to involve themselves in the development and delivery of a child ' s care and treatment plan . we have a duty to ensure that the tragic circumstance surround Ruth ' s death be never repeat . the Government be elect with a phenomenal majority , win place we never think possible — include my own constituency of Isle of Wight West — on a platform of meaningful change . if we do not use this moment to do the right thing and acknowledge that child in mental health service need their parent more often than not , I fear that we may never get another chance . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I begin by thank colleague across the House who have work so constructively on this long - await Bill . there have be a shared recognition that the current mental health system be fail too many people and that reform be urgently need . I thank the Minister for engage with we so constructively throughout the process , include as recently as yesterday ; it be much appreciated . when I speak to people in Winchester — I know that hon . member have very similar story — mental health be one of the issue that come up the most . we have family wait month or even year for treatment , we have parent watch their child deteriorate , and we have people languish on waiting list when they would rather be work or study . the Bill represent the big reform of mental health care in over 40 year . it strengthen patient autonomy , modernise detention procedure and rightly remove police station from the definition of place of safety . these be vital and much need step forward and I know that member on all side welcome they . I will speak briefly to several new clause table in my name , each aim at strengthen the Bill ' s impact for some of the most vulnerable people it seek to protect . new clause 26 would ensure that every hospital have a dedicated liaison service for the carer of patient detain under the Mental Health Act . this be a vital step to support carer during what can be an unimaginably difficult time and to close blind spot that too often exist when someone be care for a love one with serious mental illness . we know that parental mental health concern be now the most common factor in child ' s social care assessment , and that those child be at much high risk of develop mental ill health themselves . yet only about a third of mental health professional in in - patient setting ask whether a patient be a parent . these child and the carer who support they be too often invisible . by identify and support carer properly , new clause 26 would help close those gap and ensure that no family have to struggle in silence . we do not discuss this specifically in Committee , but I would be interested to know about the interaction between the independent mental health advocate , which be be expand and which we all agree with in Committee , and a new liaison service . I worry about the duplication . will the hon . member explain how that crossover would work in practice ? that be a prescient point . at the moment , there be no responsibility to ensure that child in particular , and other carer too , be identify . even if they be put in advance choice document , if the person make those decision do not identify they , that will not come about . we would have to be careful that there be not unnecessary duplication ; however , the initiative the hon . Gentleman put forward be not a belt - and - brace approach to identify young carer and other carer who be struggle . new clause 7 seek to end the detention of child on adult ward , require the number to be reduce to zero within five year — other member have discuss that today — and the Secretary of State to set out how that will be achieve . it simply can not be right that child be still be treat on adult ward . it be unacceptable and can seriously hinder recovery and effective care . although the Bill rightly focus on hospital - base treatment , the process have also lay bare how fragile our wide mental health service have become , with the lack of early support in primary and community care and the shortage of initiative that help people long before they reach crisis point . that be why new clause 14 would place a duty on integrate care board to ensure that community service have the resource they need to meet the demand and report on that regularly . keep people well in their community must be at the heart of any modern mental health strategy , because if we get the community care right , we prevent crisis , reduce pressure on hospital and help people live healthy , more independent life . finally , new clause 22 would establish a veteran ' mental health oversight officer . that dedicated role would ensure that those who have serve our country receive the understanding and tailor care they deserve when they come into contact with mental health service . too often , veteran experience mental ill health , sometimes link to their service , and they find themselves in system that do not fully recognise their unique experience . the proposal would help change that by provide proper oversight ; encourage join - up work across the NHS , veteran ' service and the third sector ; and ensure that compassion and accountability sit at the heart of how the Mental Health Act be apply to veteran . take together , the proposal be about make our mental health system even more humane , more join up , and more focus on prevention and recovery . I hope the Government will take they in the spirit in which they be intend , which be to strengthen this important Bill , which we very much support , and deliver a system that truly support those who need it most . I will speak on new clause 35 , which set out the condition under which community treatment order can be extend beyond 12 month . like many across my constituency of Sheffield Central , I know personally how overstretch our mental health service be . my brother live with complex mental health need and our family have see at first hand the impact of a churn workforce , long waiting list and a lack of community support service , bring about by an unrelenting crisis in funding . our system have not be properly expand or adapt to meet the challenge . instead , far too many people be detain and restrict , rather than support to recover . we see this nowhere more acutely than in the overuse of community treatment order , which be suppose to be a bridge from hospital to home for those who be constantly readmitte to hospital . People have describe they as " a tag that nobody can see , but you know it ' s around your mind . " the evidence show that they have not meet their intended purpose , with three major study have find no reduction in readmission or hospital time through their use . yet despite the previous Government have promise reform , community treatment order have continue . reform have be too slow and too narrow in scope . in Sheffield , we be proud to be one of six national pilot area for the neighbourhood mental health centre scheme , provide round - the - clock access to local join - up care . but if these ambition be to work , they must be match by real investment , not only in our hospital and clinical team but in the voluntary and community sector that so often hold the system together . the community organisation , peer - support group , faith network , youth worker and cultural centre be the glue that keep people well between their appointment . they offer culturally competent , person - centre care , reach those whom statutory service often miss , and rebuild trust where the system have fail . yet too many of these group be stretch to breaking point , expect to do more with less to fill the gap leave by underfunded public service . all that be why my new clause would reintroduce a 12 - month standard for community treatment order . it would require a formal review after a year , involve the patient , their nominated person and a second doctor . it would ensure transparency , scrutiny and , crucially , a patient voice in the process . I welcome minister ' assurance that a code of practice can provide these safeguard , but guidance can only reflect the law ; it can not replace it . that must be what we do in this House . if we want people to trust mental health service , we must write into legislation the expectation of good - quality , tailored and reliable service ; if we want people to have enforceable right , those right must be write into legislation ; and if we want evidence - base healthcare , we must be bold enough to follow up when the evidence do not demonstrate a policy ' s benefit , and reflect that in legislation . I rise to support new clause 29 , 28 and 39 . first , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) , who mention my constituent and the tragic case of the loss of their daughter , Ruth . my experience of listen to her story have make I support the new clause . I want to finish my remark with what Kate ask I to say in this House . Kate Szymankiewicz be a gp in Salisbury and her husband be a surgeon . their daughter , Ruth , take her own life age 14 . she be unlawfully kill while in a child mental health facility — that be what actually happen . that be what be expose in the court case this summer . what happen to Ruth be a tragedy . the system do not work as it be suppose to work . I be anxious today that the Minister should not rely on the advice and understanding of official , or on the guidance that be in place . I ask that he be really assure in his own mind that the legislation he be go to take forward will mean that this will not happen again . I will not go into the whole story but , essentially , Ruth be place in a facility that be a two - hour drive from her home . she be not technically place out of area , but the family would spend more time drive to see she than they would be allow to actually spend with she . these be wonderful , love parent who do everything they could — everything in their power — to support their daughter through a condition that she could and should have recover from . but because she be sectioned under the Mental Health Act to allow she to be force fed , her parent technically lose many of their right to involvement in their daughter ' s care . they have a wonderful , love relationship with their daughter . she be a happy child who be determined to get well , and her family be keen to see that that happen . she be section only to allow she to be feed , but the knock - on consequence be that the dynamic between the parent and their daughter , who be a patient , change as adult protocol be put in place . when Kate visit Parliament yesterday , I ask she , " what would you like I to say on your behalf ? " and she say this : " if your child be unwell and must go into hospital , whether that be because of a physical illness such as cancer , or a mental health illness like an eat disorder , they need to know that their mum , or dad , or caregiver , can be there with they , whenever they need , to help they through a scary and vulnerable time . child can not be treat in isolation . they need the support of those who love and know they well — their family . family need to be at the heart of our health system in order for child to heal and for their family to heal with they . when the next child be in crisis , which be right now , I ask you all not to turn away , but to grasp this opportunity to make the Mental Health Act a champion for their wellbeing . please include all these … amendment to safeguard this generation of young people " . the Bill address fundamental flaw in our current mental health legislation in relation to the right of people with learn disability and autistic people . I will focus my comment on new clause 32 and 33 , which I have table . they be also about vital right within our mental health legislation and relate closely to the powerful comment make by the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and by my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) . new clause 32 would provide for mandatory independent care , education and treatment review for patient detain in long - term segregation . in her report , " my heart break " , Baroness Hollins highlight the harm and suffering that be so often associate with long - term segregation , and assess how introduce care , education and treatment review can reduce the incidence and use of segregation . I very much welcome the provision on review of care and treatment that Ministers have already include in the Bill , but it have now be demonstrate that independently - chair review be make a real difference and lead to inappropriate long - term segregation be challenge and address . the human impact be substantial . new clause 32 would make such review a requirement when someone have be place in segregation for 72 hour . new clause 33 seek to introduce a new level of scrutiny in case where patient with autism or learning disability have be detain for more than five year . I believe there be a very strong case for an additional check and balance when people have be under detention and compulsory measure for so many year . I understand that the late datum for England show that 350 people with a learn disability or autism who be currently in in - patient unit have be detain there for more than 10 year . in a previous role , I provide advocacy for the family of a young man , Kyle , who have a learn disability . he be a patient in the State hospital in Carstairs in Scotland , but his family live in the north - east of Scotland . his mother and grandmother have to make a round trip of nearly seven hour to see Kyle for visit which have in the past be restrict to a single hour . Kyle be convict of no crime when he be admit to Carstairs in 2009 . he have be there for 16 year . the toll that this have take on his family have be horrendous . the situation be devastating for they , and there be no end in sight . although it be a case for the scottish mental health system , it have provide I with an insight into what many people with learn disability and their family will be experience in England today , and the limitation of mental health tribunal in deal with these issue . People with learn disability have be lose their liberty for year because of their disability ; this be a human right emergency . it be clear that we have to do far more to prevent these situation from happen . the Bill will help to do that with its welcome measure on prevention , but where these case be happen now , I believe there should be an additional level of scrutiny — an extra check and balance so that after so long , someone with the right level of authority and expertise can challenge provider to do well and to ask the question , " how can it be that someone have lose their liberty and their right to a family life , because we can not make their care and treatment work in a community set ? " although I very much welcome the introduction of the care , education and treatment review , I believe we should go far in these circumstance . that be why new clause 33 would make provision for notification to the Care Quality Commission when someone have be detain for more than five year . this be an excellent bill . it will do so much for the right of people with learn disability and autism , but there be several area where I hope the Minister can outline what far ambition the Government have to ensure that our mental health system be fit for purpose and base on human right . to squeeze in a few more back Benchers , the speak limit be now three minute . this be a long - overdue and very welcome Bill , but frankly it will not even touch the side of what most of our constituent and community need when it come to the wide mental health landscape . I support many of the amendment to improve it , not least those lay by my hon . friend on the liberal Democrat Benches . I need to make a couple of quick point , because we want the Bill to succeed . the Minister will know that since December the Health and Social Care Committee have be conduct an inquiry into community mental health service , because we recognise that unless we start tackle these matter upstream , we will not achieve the Bill ' s aim . for so many , it feel like they be walk through an NHS desert : they simply can not get the appointment they need ; they do not feel support ; and no one can navigate this complex system . just a few week ago , while still on maternity leave , I decide to have a keeping - in - touch day and the Committee decide to visit an oasis in this desert — the incredible Barnsley Street neighbourhood mental health centre in Tower Hamlets . unfortunately , the centre be one of only six pilot set up to this level across the country , but we hear some amazing story of how people have be divert away from in - patient mental health unit by an approach that truly put the patient at its centre . it be inspiring . however , we hear from the centre that its funding will not continue beyond April . it be only just start to gather the datum it need ; system change be desperately need in this space , but the concern be that the system will change without robust datum behind it . my question to the Minister be , will the centre be fund beyond April ? if not , how can the Department make decision about the system base on datum that do not represent a full calendar year ? I also want to speak in support of amendment 9 . I pay tribute to Cyril and Dianne whose son Leon suffer from schizophrenia for many year and sadly complete suicide in January 2019 . he be let down by community mental health service . Leon ' s mother , Dianne , see the illness get bad and bad , and when she try to re - refer he into the system after he have be detain , she be tell , " computer say no . " this Bill will improve the life of family like Dianne and Leon ' s , because Dianne ' s plea would have be hear under the new nominate person provision . amendment 9 would be an extra step , ensure that the plan be share with parent and carer — with the nominate person . I pay tribute to those who have campaign so doggedly for the inclusion of nominated person in the Bill . I be no expert on mental health law , but I do have decade of experience in the health and care sector , and my sister be a psychiatrist . I know that the decision to detain someone with severe mental illness be never take lightly , and that psychiatrist must weigh up a range of factor and information to come to a final decision . I table amendment 43 , 44 and 45 and new clause 34 after a number of conversation with the Royal College of Psychiatrists , which have express concern about the wording use in the detention criterion . take together , the purpose of my amendment be to ensure that the detention criterion be align with good clinical practice . it be important that they be reflect in the primary legislation , rather than simply rely on a code of practice . they would remove from the detention criterion mention of the term " likelihood " or " may be cause " to allow psychiatrist to make a straightforward , holistic assessment of individual risk in the context of significant mental disorder . the risk be that " likelihood " suggest that it be possible for clinician to predict serious harm such as violence or suicide when it be not possible to do so , while the idea of causation neglect the fact that complex background condition can be the genesis of a harm . there be a risk , too , that the language may lead to preventive detention — more detention , not less . it be always easy with hindsight , when unexpected harm have happen , to oversimplify causation and ask , " why be this person not detain ? it be critical that those task with interpret detention criterion feel comfortable with what they be interpret . I believe that the Bill , in its current form , risk inadvertently lead to defensive practice , which , as we know , be not usually good - quality care . I hope that the Minister will explain how he will ensure that the detention criterion , as draft , will not lead to those unintended consequence . of course , I welcome the fact that the Bill put into practice the principle of the wessely review , and in particular the aim of reduce detention in favour of support more people in the community . however , there will always be instance in which people do need to be detain in an in - patient setting , so investment in those facility be vital . I be delighted that Lynfield Mount hospital in my constituency have recently secure funding to implement a fantastic plan to upgrade its in - patient facility , which will help to ensure that people be treat close to home , get support to recover , maintain relationship with family , friend and colleague , and restart their life after detention . I commend the amendment to the Minister . as a member of the Bill Committee , I have the opportunity to closely examine the development and scrutiny of this Bill alongside my Opposition colleague . we seek to strengthen the legislation , particularly in relation to safeguard child and ensure robust protection for those admit under the Mental Health Act framework . give the shortness of time , I will speak only about amendment 41 and 42 . they make the vital clarification that the nominated person for any patient under the age of 16 must have parental or guardian responsibility unless there be clear and establish safeguard concern . in essence , that would ensure that the parent remain the lawful decision - maker and the first and most natural safeguard for their child ' s welfare . let we consider , for a moment , what be at stake . imagine a vulnerable 14 - year - old girl , frighten and confuse during a psychiatric admission . in that moment of distress , a well - mean adult — or , bad , someone with a hide agenda — could persuade the child to nominate they as their representative . that individual would then gain legal power to object to treatment or discharge decision , while the parent — the very people who know the child well and have both a moral and legal duty to protect they — could be sideline . once such a nomination be witness , it carry legal force . the right and responsibility of parent could , in effect , be overridden . although that may sound hypothetical , it be not . family court have see precisely how manipulative individual exploit vulnerable young people . groomer , trafficker and abuser thrive in the legal grey zone . if we be not crystal clear that only a court may displace parental responsibility , we risk leave the door ajar for such exploitation . I ask the Minister to assure the House in wind up that no child under 16 will be permit to override parental authority simply by nominate someone else , without a full and proper judicial process . the Bill do have fallback provision , which be of course welcome , but they be not watertight unless the law explicitly confirm that only a court can transfer or restrict parental right . my hon . friend make an excellent point . the only protection that I can see in schedule 2 be an age requirement , a stipulation not to be disqualify by a previous court order , and the presence of a witness . there be therefore no pre - emptive way of protect people , which be why amendment 41 be so important . my hon . friend be absolutely right . both he and I make those point in Committee . I be surprised that the Minister do not see the risk here . the safeguard that my hon . friend talk about must be beyond any doubt . the amendment in his name provide exactly that clarity . it would prevent unrelated or loosely connected individual from step into a role that rightfully belong to those with both a legal duty and an emotional bond — the parent or guardian — and it would preserve the fundamental principle that parent should not find their role diminish by accident or administrative oversight . as I be say , this be not an abstract risk ; it be a very real and foreseeable consequence of the unclear drafting . these amendment do not weaken the right of patient . they strengthen the protection around they . they ensure that in modernise this law , quite rightly , we do not inadvertently undermine the old and most important protection of all : a parent ' s duty to safeguard their child . we must ensure that the state can only curtail that right under the strict judicial scrutiny , with evidence test and the child ' s welfare paramount . in do so , we will make this legislation not only legally sound but , in my view , morally right . new clause 31 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , would require local authority and icb to supply a fully cost plan to ensure they be able to provide adequate community service for people with learn disability and autistic people . I support that entirely . as vice - chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for special educational need and disability , and from speak to group in my constituency such as last Wednesday and Growing Hope , I know that the process around SEND be complicated and not fit for purpose . fortunately , we have a chance to help it slightly with this Bill , so I ask the Minister to support new clause 31 . I would like to speak in support of new clause 37 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) . on Second Reading , I warmly welcome the change that this legislation will introduce regard autistic people or those who have a learn disability . as a result , it will no long be possible for someone to be detain in a mental health hospital indefinitely simply because they have autism or a learn disability . in the current system , autistic people and those with a learn disability have experience inappropriate care , over - medication and extended period of detention because of a lack of facility in the NHS and social care , so this change be welcome and long overdue . the Government have confirm that the change will be implement once the necessary community provision be in place . establish strong support in the community be essential for not only enable safe discharge from hospital setting but prevent unnecessary admission in the first place . I recognise that the Government be work on set out what strong community service look like and what resource they require to implement they . from serve with the Minister in Committee , I have no doubt about his commitment to ensure that this community provision be introduce in a timely manner , but I support the proposal of my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock that there should be a road map in the legislation that will provide a clear framework outline how those service will be introduce . after all , end inappropriate detention require robust community - base alternative to ensure that people with autism or a learn disability who would have previously be detain do not fall through gap in the system . have a road map develop in conjunction with autistic people , people with learn disability , their carer and healthcare professional will help to identify and address any gap in service provision and workforce capacity . I also believe that it will help to reduce the risk of people with autism or a learn disability need police intervention or emergency hospital care because the support be inadequate . by put in place a road map , new clause 37 would help to ensure that we end all the soon the injustice of people with autism or a learn disability be detain . I will speak to amendment 24 to 28 and 36 to 38 in my name , which address gap in crisis provision and accountability for autistic people and people with learn disability . on Second Reading , I tell this House about Declan Morrison , my constituent who die aged just 26 after spend 10 day in a section 136 suite that be wholly inappropriate for his complex need . I remind the House that section 136 suite be design for 24 - hour stay , or a maximum of 36 hour in extreme case . the coroner who investigate Declan ' s death find that " there be a risk that future death could occur unless action be take . " the timeline of what happen in the run - up to Declan ' s death show a cascade of systemic failure . Declan ' s family , Graeme , Sam and Kaitlyn , have ask I to ensure that Parliament learn from what happen . these amendment in my name reflect those lesson and the coroner ' s recommendation . in Committee , the Minister make several point about early version of these amendment , which I have try to address in these revise version . in particular , on crisis accommodation , the Minister argue that exist duty on icb already cover crisis provision and that the amendment be too prescriptive , potentially restrict icb in design provision , emphasise the importance of flexibility for icb to meet local need . I understand the desire not to be overly prescriptive , but in Declan ' s case , over 100 place be contact and no suitable accommodation could be find anywhere in the country . flexibility fail Declan . the revised version of the amendment allow for regional solution beyond the ICB , but I suspect that the Minister will still find it too prescriptive . however , the fundamental question remain : should there not be a duty to ensure that provision exist somewhere ? the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough ICB establish a crisis service after Declan ' s death that operate at 98 % capacity , demonstrate both need and viability , but it close when funding be withdraw , highlight the challenge with voluntary provision . on funding , the Devon partnership NHS trust look after people with mental health challenge in the Torbay community , where level of depth of despair be particularly high . the trust be face a £ 21 million cut , so do my hon . friend agree that change will be irrelevant if we do not have adequate funding ? I agree that resource need to be put in place to support the many good measure in the Bill and in many of the propose amendment . in Declan ' s case , service be create in the wake of tragedy and funding be find , but too often such service disappear when attention move elsewhere . I recognise that the implementation challenge be real , and I appreciate that the Minister have commit to provide annual write statement on progress , but I believe the principle in the amendment around crisis provision , proactive intervention , accountability and co - production with autistic people merit consideration . as much as I would like he to , I do not expect that the Minister will have a late change of heart on the amendment today . however , I hope he will be willing to meet I after the Bill receive Royal Assent to discuss how we can work together to ensure the systemic failure that lead to Declan ' s death be properly address during implementation of the measure in the Bill . in stop those systemic failure , we would honour the memory of Declan . in the interest of time , I will turn straight to new clause 25 , table in my name . the Bill set out a range of situation where the competence of a patient age under 16 will be relevant , but it do not set out a framework for how it should be determine . that put patient under 16 year old at a huge disadvantage . unlike those age 16 and over , there be no clear mechanism for determine whether a child under 16 can make decision and the law assume that under - 16 can not make decision for themselves , unless they demonstrate they be able to do so . that mean that under - 16s may not benefit fully from the right and safeguard set out in the Bill because they be assume to lack competence to make the relevant decision . for example , they may not be able to exercise their right to choose a nominated person or to access enhanced safeguard around treatment . there be currently no statutory test for determine a child ' s ability to make decision . while some may refer to Gillick competence , the Joint Committee on the draft Mental Health Bill note that Gillick competence be " broad " , " ambiguous " and that there be significant inconsistency in its application . a similar observation be make by the Court of Appeal in a decision early this year , which also indicate the Court ' s approval of a functional test to determine a child ' s competence . new clause 25 address this disparity by introduce a " functional test " to determine an under - 16 ' s ability to decide . this reflect the suggest approach in the current code of practice , adopt by some judge . the Law Commission have recommend a similar test as part of its propose legal reform concern disabled child ' s social care . this test fill a significant gap in the Bill , provide important clarity for professional when a child ' s competence need to be determine . crucially , the test set out in new clause 25 be explicitly limit to decision make under the reform Mental Health Act . it do not cover decision fall outside of the Act , so do not affect the exist decision - make power of the court or those with parental responsibility . a clear and consistent approach to assess a child ' s competence can only be achieve by include a test on the face of the Bill , as the code of practice can only reflect the law — it can not prescribe a test for competence . I would be grateful if the Minister address that point at the end of this debate , and if he would consider meet I to discuss my amendment in more detail . this Bill have many strength that will deliver for people and modernise mental health care , and it be crucial that we ensure child and young people can benefit from those strength in the same way adult can benefit . this Bill give we a real opportunity to modernise mental health care and make sure that patient choice and fairness be at the heart of mental health service , but to achieve that , we must first confront the deep inequality that still shape people ' s experience of mental health care , particularly among ethnic minority community , those face economic hardship and young people . like so many issue , the intersectionality between those factor mean that some group face particular challenge in navigating and access the help they need . in Dewsbury and Batley , we see the human reality of that inequality . rate of depression stand at 15 . 4 % , high than the national average , and schizophrenia be also more common locally , compare with other constituency in the UK . across Yorkshire and the north , mental ill health be consistently high than elsewhere in England . nhs datum and mental health organisation be clear that both ethnic background and wealth disparity play a major role in that gap . People in my constituency be more likely to experience a mental health condition , yet the funding for research and specialised service in the north remain low . that mean less support , few bed , and few opportunity to provide specialist care . that be why I strongly support new clause 13 , which require every hospital to have a name person responsible for oversee race equality in how the Mental Health Act be apply . black people be still four time more likely to be detain under the Act and eight time more likely to be place on a community treatment order . without accountability , those injustice will continue . I also support new clause 35 , table by the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) , which seek to put limit on cto . we must also do far more for young people . the new clause propose by the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) powerfully argue for give under - 16 a clear say in their own treatment decision . a mother tell I how both of her daughter need mental health support , yet she have to seek private care because local service be overstretch and not up to standard . she point I to the Good Childhood Report , which show that the wellbeing of child in the UK be among the low in Europe . I also support new clause 28 , which aim urgently to address the need to stop child be place in adult ward or send mile away from home for treatment . I welcome the work that West Yorkshire ICB have do recently to expand mental health service for old people , but we must match that ambition for child and young people . if those commitment can not all be secure through this Bill , they must be deliver in the forthcoming child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . I call Jen Craft to make the final contribution . all those who have contribute to the debate should make their way back to the Chamber . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker — I will be as brief as possible . I will speak to new clause 37 , which stand in my name and which seek to support the Government in end the scandal of the inappropriate detention of people with a learn disability and / or autism . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on learn disability . currently , a learn disability or autism , in and of itself , can be ground for detention under the Mental Health Act . as we all know , this be an absolute scandal — something from a previous age that should be a source of moral shame to everyone in our community . the Bill seek to address this by remove autism or a learn disability , in and of themselves , as criterion for detention under the Mental Health Act . that offer a lifeline — a light in the tunnel of darkness that a number of people who be detain under the current Act face . however , the impact assessment for the Bill state that the propose change to the detention criterion in clause 3 and 4 " will only be switch on when system be able to demonstrate sufficient level of community support " . the family and carer of those have a learn disability or autism and who be detain under the Mental Health Act , and the organisation that support they and people who advocate for they , know that too often this vulnerable group of people be push to the bottom of a list of compete priority , and very often slide off it . we know that this Government and the Department of Health and Social Care have a number of compete priority to deliver on , and the concern for people who fall into this bracket under the legislation be that their concern just will not be address and that this absolute scandal will continue in perpetuity . People who have a learn disability or autism will be detain because our community service just be not up to snuff ; we have so categorically fail they that the only thing we can think to do be to lock they away from society . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not , because I be aware that I be almost out of time . my new clause would ensure that the Government have to set out , within six month of this Bill receive Royal Assent , a road map that engage in a co - productive way with people with learn disability or autism , their advocate and organisation that champion their right . the road map will design what they need to support they to lead independent dignified life in the community , and there will be a report every year to say how we be get community service to a sufficient place so that these much - need clause in the Bill can be switch on . this Bill update mental health legislation and bring it into the 21st century . it be only right that it do so for everyone in our society , include the most vulnerable . I thank everyone in the Chamber for their contribution to today ' s debate . I will start by talk about the deeply move contribution regard the tragic death of Ruth Szymankiewicz . I extend my heartfelt condolence to Ruth ' s family , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) and the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) for so powerfully advocate on behalf of Ruth and her family . the circumstance around Ruth ' s death be unacceptable and should never have happen . we acknowledge multiple failing in her care . turn to the amendment , while we be not accept any change to the Bill , I hope that I can assure the House , in the short time remain , that we be take action to address the concern that have rightly be raise . in relation to new clause 6 , 7 , 29 and 36 , we absolutely do not want young people place in adult ward , and we be clear that patient should get treatment close to home . however , further legislative restriction on placement risk leave clinician without option in emergency or prevent treatment that be in the patient ' s good interest . NHS England have work with hundred of child and family to develop a new service specification for child and young people ' s mental health service . the specification be for commissioner and provider to follow , define the care expect from organisation fund by NHS England to provide specialised care . will the Minister give way ? I will , but I have get little time and a lot of amendment to address , so I will not take any further intervention . I have the privilege of meet Helena and Christina , who share with I the challenge they face when their mother be sectioned when they be young girl . for two week , the responsibility for care be leave entirely in their hand while local service struggle to find a suitable bed . can the Minister confirm that through the Mental Health Bill , in conjunction with the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , young carer will be properly identify and that the additional boost in Government investment directly into mental health service will ensure that young carer receive the support they need ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . one of the core purpose of this Bill be to ensure that we catch such issue , particularly around the identification of child in case where parent be require to be detain . we will reaffirm that child should be treat in the least restrictive , most age - appropriate environment and close to home and family , and that all service would work towards alternative to admission , such as day care and intensive home treatment , with well support for visit , include with dedicated family area and overnight stay . we have commit £ 75 million for system to invest in reduce out - of - area placement , and I be pleased to report that the number of child place on adult ward be now decrease , and that trend must continue . we have also commit in the Bill to review the exist CQC notification requirement , include whether notification should be extend to other incident and whether the time period remain appropriate . we will work with family , clinician and mps as part of that review . indeed , follow recent conversation with my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West and for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , I have ask official to host a roundtable next month with member and expert on how we can provide great clarity in the code . the focus will also be on NHS England ' s service specification and regulation on the placement of child and young people in adult ward , include determine if a placement be suitable . the revised code , on which we will engage extensively with — among other — child and their family and carer , will provide further opportunity to address concern raise in amendment 33 and 39 and new clause 28 . the code will also address the issue of competency . we believe that that be more appropriate than a test for competency in the Act , as propose in new clause 15 and 25 . will the Minister give way ? I will , but can the right hon . Gentleman please make his intervention very short ? I be grateful to the Minister , and I be also grateful to he for what he say about my constituent . there be so many code of good practice , and so many guideline . can he say a little more about what force the code would have , so that we can have some reassurance that the risk that be so tragic in the case of my constituent will be eliminate ? the code of practice will be statutory . it be well to have these provision in the code , because clinical practice evolve , and it be much easy to revise a code of practice than to go through primary legislation . we understand the concern express about young carer in new clause 26 and 27 , and recognise that despite exist duty , the right question be not always be ask to identify child when someone be detain . while we do not agree that additional legal duty be need , especially as multi - agency working be already be strengthen through the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , we do agree that we need to make the requirement more explicit . the revised code of practice will therefore specify that when someone be detain , step must be take to identify the child of the patient . information about support that be available must be share , and if a young carer ' s need assessment be require , the appropriate referral must be make . will the Minister give way ? I be really struggle for time . I be sorry , but I can not take any more intervention , because it be not fair to member who have table amendment . amendment 41 and 42 would prevent child with competence from choose a step - parent or kinship carer as their nominate person if that be the most appropriate person for they . a nominated person can be overrule or displace if act against the child ' s good interest . parent will always maintain their right under the parental responsibility . many amendment concern statutory care and treatment review design to help to ensure that people with a learn disability and autistic people receive the right care and treatment while detain and barrier to discharge be overcome . review will happen within 28 day of detention , and at least once a year during detention . this can be more frequent , depend on need . patient ' family and advocate can request a review meeting at any point . in respect of new clause 32 , we have consult on make some restrictive practice , include long - term segregation , notifiable to the Care Quality Commission within 72 hour . let I now deal with amendment 14 and 26 and new clause 31 and 37 . I acknowledge the importance of have a clear plan to resource community provision for people with a learn disability and autistic people to implement these reform . we have commit ourselves to an annual write ministerial statement on implementation of the Bill post Royal Assent . follow conversation with my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) , we will work with stakeholder , include people with live experience , to shape our road map for commence change to clause 3 . the write ministerial statement will give update on progress , as well as set out future plan . it be not possible at this stage for we to commit ourselves to the specific of implementation and community support , which depend on the final legislation pass , future spending review , and engagement with stakeholder to get implementation planning right . as for the concern raise by my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) about the detention criterion in the Bill , it be vital that the work " likelihood " be include in those criterion to set clear expectation of what clinician need to consider . however , we be clear about the fact that our intention be not to set a threshold for detention . under the new criterion , a harm do not have to be likely to justify detention . the criterion require likelihood to be consider holistically , alongside the change , nature and degree of the harm . I know that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) be keen for I to deal with the question of public safety . the key point be that there be detention criterion in clause 5 , which make a clear reference to harm either to the patient or to other person . that be clearly a consideration of public safety , and we therefore believe that amendment 40 be surplus to requirement . I trust that , on the basis of the assurance I have give , member will be content not to press their amendment and new clause . z ö e Franklin , be it your pleasure that new clause 2 be withdraw ? I beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion . clause , by leave , withdraw . New Clause 26 - duty to establish carer liaison service " ( 1 ) the Mental Health Act 1983 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part x ( Miscellaneous and Supplementary ) , after section 133 insert — " 133A Duty to establish carer liaison service ( 1 ) the manager of every hospital provide service under this Act must establish and maintain a dedicated carer liaison service . ( 2 ) a service establish under this section must provide — ( a ) support to unpaid carer when a patient for whom they provide care be — ( i ) await admission to hospital for treatment under the Act ; ( ii ) receive treatment in hospital under the Act ; ( iii ) set to be discharge from a hospital where they have be receive treatment under this Act ; ( b ) timely and accessible information regard the discharge of the patient they care for , include detail of — ( i ) the patient ' s discharge plan ; and ( ii ) aftercare arrangement under section 117 of this Act ; ( c ) support for unpaid carer to identify their own need and connect to relevant local service for post - discharge support , include local authority adult social care service , general practitioner , and local carer ' centre ; ( d ) facilitation of effective communication and collaboration between unpaid carer and the patient ' s multidisciplinary clinical team regard the discharge process ; ( e ) assistance to unpaid carer in develop or update a carer ' s support plan in the context of the patient ' s discharge , include guidance on — ( i ) their right to assessment and support as carer ( ii ) their participation in education or employment ; ( iii ) available counselling service ; ( iv ) support in planning for emergency in relation to the patient ; ( v ) benefit for the carer and patient ; and ( vi ) other form of local support ; and ( f ) service to ensure that the perspective of the unpaid carer , as a key provider of support , be consider during discharge planning , where appropriate and with due regard to patient confidentiality and consent . " " — ( Dr Chambers . ) this new clause would require hospital to establish a dedicated liaison service for the carer of patient detain under the Mental Health Act . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood will Forster Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Joshua Reynolds Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Tom Morrison Z ö e Franklin Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lee Pitcher Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Gregor Poynton the House divide : Ayes 78 , Noes 327 . question accordingly negative . order . before I ask for the next decision , I remind colleague in the Chamber that once the door be lock , member should not be force themselves through the door to either Lobby . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 19 May ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . clause 21 - care and treatment plan Amendment propose : 40 , page 29 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( c ) contain an assessment of the level of risk to public safety pose by the patient in the community . " — ( Dr Luke Evans . ) this amendment would require consideration to be give to public safety in care and treatment plan . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy Rebecca Smith Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lee Pitcher Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Gregor Poynton the House divide : Ayes 163 , Noes 339 . question accordingly negative . clause 51 - Data protection Amendment make : 34 , in page 64 , line 34 , leave out clause 51 . — ( Stephen Kinnock . ) this amendment omit clause 51 . it be no long necessary because of the general data protection override in section 183a of the Data Protection Act 2018 , which be insert by section 106 ( 2 ) of the Data ( Use and Access ) Act 2025 and come into force on 20 August 2025 . schedule 2 - nominate person Amendment make : 35 , in schedule 2 , page 76 , line 37 , leave out from " patient " to end of line 38 and insert " mean — ( a ) a person by whom a nominated person be appoint under Part 1 of Schedule A1 , or ( b ) a person for whom a nominated person be appoint under Part 2 of that schedule . " — ( Stephen Kinnock . ) this amendment correct the definition of " patient " in new section 30b ( 7 ) ( which inadvertently go too wide since in certain case it would cover an approve mental health professional ) . Amendment propose : 41 , in schedule 2 , page 77 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) where the patient have not yet reach the age of 16 ( the ' child patient ' ) , the nominate person must be a person with parental responsibility for the child patient , unless the factor set out in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) below apply . ( 4 ) a person who have parental responsibility for a patient under the age of 16 ( ' the parent ' ) must not be the nominated person if — ( a ) the parent be subject to a prohibit step order under section 8 of the Children Act 1989 ; ( b ) a local authority be take action under section 47 ( 8 ) of the Children Act 1989 to safeguard the child patient or otherwise protect the child patient ' s welfare due to concern about the parent ; or ( c ) the local authority have make enquiry under section 47 ( 1 ) of the Children Act 1989 and conclude that the child patient be suffer , or be likely to suffer , harm at the hand of the parent ( within the meaning of section 31 ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) of that Act ) . " — ( Dr Luke Evans . ) this amendment would stipulate that the nominated person for a patient under the age of 16 must have parental responsibility for the patient , unless there be safeguard concern . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy Rebecca Smith Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lee Pitcher Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Gregor Poynton the House divide : Ayes 164 , Noes 333 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . since the Mental Health Act 1983 be pass , and since it be update in 2007 , attitude towards mental health have shift dramatically , and our understanding have grow , but the law have be neglect . that be why this Government be proud to announce this Bill in our first King ' s Speech , fulfil our manifesto commitment and take the first step towards ensure patient be consistently treat with dignity and respect — promise make , and promise deliver . it be clear that adult and young people with mental health issue have be let down for year , which be why we be transform the current mental health system through our 10 - year health plan , include through recruit more than 8 , 500 additional mental health worker , deliver more NHS talking therapy appointment than ever before , increase the number of mental health crisis centre , and provide access to a specialist mental health professional for every school in England . today , we be another step close to deliver the reform to deal with people with severe and acute mental health disorder , a step close to strengthen and clarify the criterion for detention , and a step close to well support clinician to make the right decision around appropriate care and treatment , include community treatment order . we want to make sure that patient choice and patient need be at the heart of decision making . that be why we be introduce these reform to enshrine in law measure such as the clinical checklist , the use of advance choice document , the role of nominated person and the expansion of advocacy service . we be increase the scrutiny and oversight of compulsory detention . we be make sure that those patient who be detain have a clear path to recovery and to discharge . we be introduce statutory care and treatment plan for all patient , so that their need be meet both during and after their hospital stay . to reduce reliance on in - patient care and ensure that people with a learn disability and autistic people get the right support , we be limit the scope for detention . we be also introduce a package of measure to improve community support , include statutory care , education and treatment review and dynamic support register . we be introduce strong safeguard for people who lack capacity or competence to consent to treatment — a potentially highly vulnerable group . those patient will receive a second opinion - appoint doctor at an early stage in their treatment . this Bill have be the product of year of work predate this government , and it be right that we thank hon . member and peer for their scrutiny and support over many year . we should particularly note the work of the former Prime Minister Baroness May for launch the independent review that pave the way for this legislation , along with the review chair , Sir Simon wessely , and his vice - chair , Steven Gilbert , Sir Mark Hedley and Baroness Neuberger . I thank member who serve on our Public Bill Committee , include the Chairs , and the clerk and all the parliamentary staff who have work hard to ensure that the Bill be subject to the proper scrutiny while ensure smooth and quick passage . I also thank the Joint Committee on Human Rights and particularly Lord Alton for its report and recommendation . I be grateful to the devolved government for their support during the Bill ' s passage and to the Welsh Senedd and Northern Ireland Assembly for grant legislative consent . I thank the Bill team , my private office and all the official and stakeholder over numerous year who have work hard to get this legislation to where it be today . above all , thank go to those with live experience who have bravely share their personal experience with we through the independent review , through our consultation with stakeholder group and through member across both Houses . the Bill be the product of sustained effort over a number of year . that work will continue follow the Bill ' s Royal Assent , but none the less it be an important moment to acknowledge and pay tribute to those who have get the Bill to where it be now . the work continue as we look to implement the legislation . the first priority once the Bill get Royal Assent will be to draft and consult on the code of practice . we will engage closely with people with live experience and their family and carer and with commissioner , provider , clinician and other to do that . much have be do , but there be much more to do . this government be deliver on our commitment to modernise the Mental Health Act , and the work begin now to deliver that change on the ground . the Bill will of course now go to the other place , and I thank peer for their previous extensive consideration . I hope the noble Lords will be able to agree to the change make in this House , so that the Bill can make swift progress to Royal Assent . I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I want first to recognise and thank everyone for the constructive debate we have hear here and in the other place throughout the Bill ' s passage . in particular , I thank the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , for everything he have do on the Bill , especially in Committee . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) for his expertise , whose involvement with the Bill begin before he be elect to this place . I also pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and my hon . friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) for their thoughtful contribution . this be clearly an important and emotive issue , and the respect and sensitivity that have be show by all side be a testament to this House . since the election , we have say that we would not oppose for the sake of opposition . while we have rightly ask tough question of the Government , we have do so with the good interest of patient at heart , because everybody here want to help and support vulnerable people well — those patient with the most severe and complex mental health need . this Bill , which start under the previous Government — I pay tribute to former Prime Minister Baroness May for that — and continue under this government , will achieve that . we welcome effort to improve the patient ' s voice and involvement in their own care , to ensure that patient receive effective and appropriate treatment , to minimise restriction on liberty so far as be consistent with patient and public safety , and to treat patient with dignity and respect . although we be disappointed that opportunity to strengthen the Bill far have be miss , especially in public safety and the protection of vulnerable child , we listen closely to what the Minister say and to his assurance on action , for which we thank he . we will of course continue to push on these matter , not on party political ground , but because do so be the right thing for patient . we be very disappointed that the proportion of health spending on mental health have be reduce . we welcome the Government ' s continuation of our work look again at how we treat and protect people with the most severe mental health illness , so that we can improve the safety , treatment and dignity of patient and the wide public , and ensure that our law remain relevant and proportionate in the modern world . the Government must now turn their word into action and deliver on the commitment that they have make . I thank everybody again for the constructive way in which they have deal with the Bill . we be pleased to support its Third Reading . we hope that it will bring improvement for those we all care about : the patient . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats support the Bill , which make mental health law much fair and more compassionate . however , reform detention law be only half the job , because without investment in prevention and community care , the Bill risk become an improved way of manage failure rather than prevent it . without proper early intervention , people deteriorate until crisis be the only door open to they . Melbury Lodge in my Winchester constituency show what a good partnership can look like : nhs team work with citizen advice to help patient sort out debt , bill and benefit before discharge — recovery be impossible if patient return home to a pile of threaten letter and bill . yet scheme like that be the exception , not the rule . debt , insecure housing , domestic abuse and bereavement be not side issue — they be often root cause — and care plan that ignore they be not truly caring . before I bring my remark to a close , I pay tribute to the extraordinary people work at the frontline of mental health care — nurse , doctor , counsellor , therapist , support worker , carer and charity — who hold up a system that too often feel as if it be collapse around they . their compassion and professionalism be the reason so many people make it through their dark moment . they deserve much more than just thank ; they deserve a system that support they as much as they support other . in my year of campaign for well mental health , include as a trustee of a mental charity and , in the past year , as the Liberal Democrat mental health spokesperson , I have become more convinced that mental health can not be see as the responsibility of NHS service alone . it must be embed across society , in education , healthcare , housing , farming and even in the way we support small business . I thank the Minister and his team for all their work on the Bill and their cross - party engagement , as well as everyone who serve on the Bill Committee and the Members who have turn up repeatedly to these debate . one thing that do unite the House be improve mental health care . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass , with amendment . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Sanctions that the Global Irregular Migration and traffic in Persons Sanctions Regulations 2025 ( SI , 2025 , no . 902 ) , date 21 July 2025 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 22 July , be approve . — ( Jade Botterill . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medicines that the draft Human Medicines ( Authorisation by Pharmacists and Supervision by Pharmacy Technicians ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 17 July , be approve . — ( Jade Botterill . ) question agree to . Petition - Safety of the A500 Audley slip road I be grateful to my constituency neighbour and near - neighbour , my hon . friend the Members for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , for Congleton ( Sarah Russell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) and for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) for join I in the Chamber this evening . I rise to present this petition concern the safety of the A500 Audley slip road , which have , along with a corresponding digital petition , receive a total of over 260 signature from resident in my constituency of Newcastle - under - Lyme — the centre of our political universe . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Newcastle - under - Lyme , declare that the A500 Audley slip road , where it cross Alsagers Road , be not currently fit for purpose and be not safe for local resident , driver or pedestrian ; far , recognise that if action be take by Staffordshire County Council and National Highways to make it safe , there would be few accident and near - miss and less confusion ; declare that there be many way through which safety could be improve , such as by improve signage , such as include a stop sign , implement more pedestrian safety measure , introduce traffic light , reduce speed limit , improve the road layout design , introduce restriction on re - join the a500 , reduce surround vegetation to allow for great visibility , place rumble strip on the slip road , improve visibility by redesign the crash barrier , introduce camera or other deterrent for dangerous driving , improve road marking , introduce change to junction 16 so lorry be not lead onto that section of the a500 , and introduce yellow line as a warning for driver to slow down as they approach the slip road ; and further note that a correspond online petition on this issue have receive a separate 260 signature . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Staffordshire County Council and National Highways to take immediate action to ensure that the A500 Audley slip road be make safe for local resident , driver and pedestrian . and the petitioner remain , etc . the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme deserve no less . [ p003118 ] energy profit levy : North - east Scotland Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jade Botterill . ) I secure this debate because what be happen in north - east Scotland simply can not go on . hundred , if not thousand , of job be be lose on a regular basis across our region from the world - class energy sector that we be so proud of , not least because of the energy profit levy . these be geologist , engineer , technician and project manager — highly skilled worker who be nothing but of value to the UK — but they be also people with mortgage , people with family and people who have give decade to an industry that this Government be now destroy through deliberately punitive policy . offshore Energies UK warn that , largely because of the EPL and other Government policy on the North sea , almost 1 , 000 direct and indirect job will be lose every month . that is 1 , 000 livelihood , 1 , 000 mortgage and 1 , 000 family face uncertainty every single month . OEUK also project that 42 , 000 job be at risk between now and 2030 . energy worker in north - east Scotland feel like they be on borrow time . no one really celebrate when they manage to survive a round of job cut , because they know it be likely just to be short - term relief , with more cut come soon . the energy profit levy be introduce in 2022 , at a time when oil and gas price be spike after Russia invade Ukraine . at that time , brent crude peak at over $ 130 a barrel and average $ 99 a barrel in 2022 . similarly , in 2022 , gas peak at 640p a therm and average 165p a therm that year . let we compare that with this year . in August 2025 , Brent average $ 71 a barrel and gas 81p a therm . that be a 28 % and a 51 % drop on the 2022 average , and oil this week be at a six - month low . the energy profit levy have cease to be a windfall tax . the windfall have go , and the price have return to normal level . the Competition and Markets Authority find that in 2025 , oil market be now relatively stable , and exceptional circumstance seem to have recede . will the hon . Lady give way ? Mr Shannon on the north - east of Scotland . Madam Deputy Speaker , I speak to the hon . Lady beforehand to ensure that I be here to support she in what she be try to achieve in north - east Scotland . it be very important that we add our support to she . do the hon . Lady agree that while investment in tidal energy have not produce the desire result of sustainable , reliable energy , the levy on energy profit have achieve a result that be absolutely undesirable and be see investment in our country be move to the USA and other region with a more favourable approach ? do she also agree that the economic black hole can not be fill by more levy but must be fill by investment in our business and create future job security ? I commend she . I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman . I will come on to talk about the drain of investment and other thing from north - east Scotland because of the levy . it feel as if it be a particularly punitive tax on north - east Scotland , give that our region be the energy hub of the UK . even though the windfall no long exist , at the Budget last year the Chancellor still decide that she would increase the EPL from 35 % to 38 % , give a headline tax of 78 % . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jade Botterill . ) the Chancellor also extend the levy until March 2030 . just to ensure that the industry be hit from all angle , she abolish the investment allowance , remove the very mechanism that keep company invest . I pay tribute to the hon . Lady for secure the debate . I share her passion for her constituent and their work in the North sea , because my constituent , over three generation , have do the same work , and I want to see people work in the North sea for another three generation . do she accept that some 77 , 000 job in the North sea go on the watch of the last government , and that the move from fossil fuel to renewable be inevitable and must be manage by thing like passporte people into job ? we must be honest about the fact that offshore job be dangerous . I pay tribute to the people who have go out there for the past 50 year to earn our energy security . the danger that they put themselves in be simply not the same in the renewable sector . do she accept that we must balance the move from gas and oil in the North sea to renewable in the wild Atlantic , probably , with a manage transition that look after our community ? however , that do not make it an either / or question of have either carbon from oil and gas in the North sea or onshore and offshore renewable . we can and will do both , and this Government should be commit to both for another 40 year . I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman . at no point have I ever say that we should be persist with oil and gas at the expense of renewable . we 100 % need both , but both mean both side : we do not need to tax the oil and gas industry out of existence in the North sea in order to scale up renewable , because that will do the exact opposite , as he know . I appreciate his point that job have be lose in the past — I know that because I live in the north - east of Scotland — but what happen to oil and gas price during that time ? be they at a peak or in a trough ? they be in a trough but they be now not , yet we be still see job cut and production decrease fast than it need to because of decision make by this Government . I commend my hon . friend on her speech and on secure the debate . as she know , this issue be also feel incredibly keenly in the neighbouring constituency of West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine , which I represent . while the debate about whether it be renewable or oil and gas be a false one , the fact be that skilled worker , whose job be be lose in the North sea right now , be the exact worker who we will need in the future to deliver clean energy and a more sustainable future . those job do not exist in the UK right now , and they be be lose to the United Arab Emirates , Riyadh , Australia , Mexico and Canada . we need to do what we can to maintain those job in north - east Scotland by support our oil and gas industry and remove the punitive energy profit levy , which be drive people away from the country and drive company to make redundancy . order . I remind Mr Bowie that Front bencher do not intervene from the Front Bench in Adjournment debate . I agree that we want to keep the worker that we have , and the skill and expertise that they have develop , in north - east Scotland because they be of huge value to north - east Scotland . they will not stay in north - east Scotland out of virtue but only if the job be there for they and it make economic sense for the company to keep they there . that be not what be happen at the moment , and we be lose a crucial asset to our energy transition at an extraordinary rate . the loss of skill impact investor confidence in the North sea . that investor confidence be directly link to investor confidence in renewable , give the lack of availability of skill that will result . do the hon . Lady agree that the Government need to give an end date for this so - call temporary measure as soon as possible , and that that need to be implement as soon as practicably possible ? exactly — I thank the hon . member for that intervention . on that point , I will skip forward a little bit to my first question to the Minister , which be when the Treasury will publish its consultation outcome on the future fiscal regime for the North sea , and whether the Government will wait until 2030 to implement that new regime , or whether they will implement it straightaway . investment decision worth billion be be put on hold wait for that answer . they need to know a month , or ideally a week — not just a vague " in due course " . capital investment forecast for the North sea have fall by 84 % , from over £ 14 billion to £ 2 . 3 billion for the period 2025 to 2029 , and Offshore Energies UK calculate that £ 26 billion of economic value will be lose under Labour ' s EPL extension . some 90 % of OEUK ' s member company be now seek opportunity overseas , and Aberdeen and Grampian chamber of commerce agree , warn that the EPL be " erode investor confidence and drive capital to rival overseas region . " Shell ' s finance chief have call for certainty and a " stable environment " , note that the UK ' s 78 % tax rate be " large than most " other country and make it difficult to have confidence in long - term investment . although Norway , which the Government love to use as a comparison , have a similar tax rate , the Government know that this be a false comparison , because Norway also offer full capital cost deduction . it refund almost 72 % of loss to company and give a 24 % uplift on investment over four year . the result be that Norway attract 3 . 8 time more investment than the UK into the same mature North sea basin . Norway ' s North sea will see around £ 35 billion in exploration and production investment through to 2030 ; our will see just £ 10 billion . I be from the south - west of Scotland , which be as far from the north - east as one can get in Scotland . none the less , this be a huge issue for the whole country . my hon . friend be make a point about the North sea basin be mature . we always hear that — it be mature , it be decline — but the norwegian investment be exploit area of gas and oil that previously would not have be accessible . new technique such as horizontal drilling be deliver huge benefit for the norwegian economy ; we be deny ourselves those benefit . be that not the case ? it be absolutely the case — my hon . friend be completely correct . we be forgo so many opportunity in the North sea to secure energy for our country and safeguard the skill and job that we will need for the transition . there be endless opportunity that , for some reason , we be willing to leave under the North sea . that bring I to my second question for the Minister . do the Treasury recognise the damage that the EPL be do to the North sea ? we know that the decline in the North sea do not start with the EPL — it be a mature basin — but the EPL be accelerate that decline . its ripple effect go far beyond the energy producer themselves . the supply chain be haemorrhage job . hunt in Aberdeenshire lay off 143 employee ; Wood Group cut 200 job last year ; Belmar Engineering enter liquidation this year , with 48 redundancy ; Beam in Westhill collapse , with 100 job lose ; well - Safe Solutions cut about 45 job ; and Harbour Energy have cut 250 job , which be 25 % of its onshore workforce . I keep come back to the word that the Chancellor say when Harbour Energy announce its job cut early this year and cite the EPL as a principal factor . she say that this be just " a commercial decision by one company " , but the list I have give — which be not exhaustive — be evidence that that be not the case . it show that the Chancellor either do not understand , or do not want to understand , the impact the EPL be have . as I be sure other member do , I regularly visit company in the north - east of Scotland whose order book for offshore work have completely dry up , force they to adapt their business model to other sector just to keep afloat . many of those company do not know whether they will be here in 12 month ' time . they be not hire , they be struggle to justify investment , and in many case , they can do nothing more than hope for a change in Government policy . these company be own , grow and run by some of the most innovative and entrepreneurial people I have ever meet . they be not afraid of branch out or try new thing — they have do so for their whole business career — but they be be back into a corner and be run out of option . the irony be that this policy be fail on its own term , in shrink the very economic activity that it seek to tax . the Office for Budget Responsibility originally forecast that the energy profit levy would raise more than £ 65 billion between 2023 and 2028 , but the revise forecast be £ 21 . 1 billion . we be on track to miss the target by £ 44 billion , and revenue from the EPL fall from £ 4 . 2 billion to £ 2 . 7 billion between 2022 - 23 and 2024 - 25 . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs figure show that revenue from oil and gas production be down 27 % last year . when do the Treasury last carry out an impact assessment of the EPL ' s impact on production , job , economic activity and tax receipt ? have those assessment be revisit follow those recent HMRC figure show the downgrade forecast ? forecast show that the policy could ultimately cost the Treasury £ 12 billion in lose revenue by 2050 . we have reach the point where the level of taxation mean less money . the Government be tax the North sea so heavily that tax revenue be be lose . we can not tax job that no long exist , we can not tax production that no long exist and we can not tax business that no long operate in the UK . there be something else that the Government be ignore . from the early 2030 , the Treasury will face a £ 2 billion to £ 3 billion cost each year in decommissioning rebate , a decade early than expect . the premature shutdown of field , drive by the EPL make they too unviable to continue , make that liability ever more imminent . the policy be also undermine our energy security at a time of global instability , suppress domestic oil and gas production and increase our dependence on foreign import . we be now 42 % dependent on energy import . by 2030 , it be project that our reliance on import gas will increase to 80 % , and our liquefy natural gas import have increase by 40 % in the past year alone . those change be partly down to geology , but the decline be accentuate by the punitive tax regime for company operate out of the North sea . estimate suggest that there could be 7 . 5 billion barrel of oil equivalent remain in the North sea that could be recover with the right investment . we could cover half our energy need to 2050 with North sea reserve . if we drive investment away , we will leave that resource untapped , only for import from elsewhere to cover they . that be a huge loss of economic opportunity for the north - east of Scotland and the UK as a whole . that bring I to my final question , and I will soon conclude . will the Treasury please commit to de - link oil and gas pricing in the energy security investment mechanism so that both commodity be assess on their individual market condition ? time be run out , and that be not an exaggeration . every month of inaction mean another thousand job go . every delay investment decision mean less energy security for Britain . every skilled worker who leave to go overseas be one we will struggle to get back when we need they for the energy transition . I and , more importantly , the oil and gas sector have four question for the Minister . first , when will the consultation outcome be publish ? secondly , do the Treasury recognise the damage it be inflict ? thirdly , when be the last impact assessment carry out by the Government ? fourthly , will the Government de - link oil and gas in the energy security investment mechanism ? the north - east of Scotland have power Britain for 50 year . we have contribute hundred of billion in tax revenue . we develop expertise that be renowned around the world . we have so much more to offer to meet the UK ' s current and future energy need , but only if we be give the chance . scrap the EPL be a vital part of that chance . let I first congratulate the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) on secure this debate . I thank member from all part of the House for their contribution so far ; I be sure there will be more intervention in the come 15 minute . I say to the hon . member that it be clear how strongly and firmly she seek to represent her constituent and those of her neighbour , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , as a resident in north - east Scotland . that come across clearly in the House . the UK oil and gas industry play a significant role in our country , just as it have for more than half a century . alongside its contribution to our energy supply , it have provide more than £ 400 billion in production taxis since the late 1960 and create thousand of job in the hon . Lady ' s constituency and in many constituency in that part of Scotland and across the country . as we head towards a net zero future , the industry and the region will continue to play a vital role in the energy transition , with which I know the sector be keenly engage . between 2018 and 2024 , the sector have act to reduce its emission by 34 % , and we be see oil and gas company make record investment in carbon capture , usage and storage on land and in offshore wind at sea . I agree with the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan that it be not an either / or ; we must have a manage transition in which we do all that we can to protect job and industry , and to grow new job and industry too . we be all pull in the same direction ; Government and industry be commit to a fair , orderly and prosperous transition for the region , and I be grateful for the opportunity to speak about that today . the aim of our tax regime for the exploration and production of oil and gas in the North sea be to support investment in this vital resource , while ensure that the country obtain a fair return in exchange for the use of an important national asset . I be sure the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan will be very familiar with the tax regime , and I be sure that everyone else in the Chamber be , but let I set it out for the benefit of those who may not be . the regime today include a ring fence corporation tax that be charge at 30 % , the supplementary charge at 10 % and , yes , the temporary energy profit levy at 38 % . as the hon . Member mention , that be introduce amid near - record - high price follow the recovery from covid and Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . while we pursue our net zero target , we must ensure that we meet the country ' s energy need . that involve energy from overseas alongside our own new nuclear , wind and solar , and , of course , domestic oil and gas . with domestic gas production , net of import , account for the equivalent of about a third of UK gas demand , our oil and gas industry support more than 100 , 000 job , and will continue to play a significant role in our energy mix for decade to come . in support those job and the important contribution of the sector , our approach to taxation be , in my view , both responsible and proportionate . we believe in the ongoing contribution of the oil and gas industry and its skilled workforce , and the sector continue to benefit from £ 84 . 25 in tax relief for every £ 100 of private investment , with more relief available for decarbonisation - base investment . the oil and gas sector be expect to contribute about £ 16 billion in tax receipt between this financial year and 2029 - 30 , which be roughly equivalent to the entire year ' s NHS Scotland budget . the energy profit levy alone have already raise more than £ 11 billion since its introduction . yes , that be less than be forecast at the time , but in a way that should be welcome news for the hon . member , because it mean low energy bill for people up and down the country who be affect by the cost of living — family in her constituency , and in mine . what low revenue from the EPL mean be that oil and gas company be not invest in the North sea , that production be fall in the North sea , and that , for example , revenue from income tax — which the Scottish Government might quite like — be fall as well . there be nothing welcome about the Government not meet their forecast . it be complete madness even to believe that . if the hon . Member would have prefer energy price to stay at their pandemic level , and money to continue to flow in from the EPL rather than more people throughout the country receive low energy bill , that is , of course , a view that she be welcome to hold . as I be say , the levy have raise more than £ 11 billion since its introduction , and be forecast to raise a furth £ 11 billion by 2030 . that revenue provide vital funding for our public service , create sustainable job , strengthen our energy security and independence , and support the energy transition . the Government be commit to give the oil and gas industry long - term certainty and confidence in the fiscal regime . the energy security investment mechanism be the price floor within the EPL , and that give the sector certainty that if oil and gas price fall for a sustained period , the EPL will cease . that remain government policy . the hon . Member ask whether the Government intend to de - link , but the Government policy be to stick with ESIM as it stand . I know that member have express concern about the approach to tax and how it affect investment in the oil and gas sector , but we have see capital expenditure in the sector rise from around £ 4 billion in 2022 to around £ 6 billion last year . that be why we introduce pragmatic reform to the levy at the autumn Budget 2024 and refrain from go far than abolish the levy ' s investment allowance , help to support the sector ' s competitiveness . I want to restate to the House today that the EPL will end no later than 31 March 2030 . work with the sector and stakeholder , the Government publish the oil and gas price mechanism consultation on 5 March to give long - term certainty on the future fiscal regime , develop an approach for how we respond to unusually high price once the EPL end . as the hon . member know , the consultation close early this year . the Government be now hard at work analyse submission and suggestion , and we will publish our response — I will not say " in due course " ; I will say " shortly " . I know that the sector want certainty from the Government as to what will follow on from the EPL . I hear that , and I be meet member of the sector this week to hear it directly from business . I want this to happen as soon as it can , but I hope the hon . Member will understand that it be not quite in my gift unilaterally to announce the date and the precise timetable on the Floor of the House . I understand that there be a need for certainty , and the Government understand just how important that be for business and worker in the sector . I reassure the House that it be definitely not our intention to wait until the EPL be about to cease before bring in new legislation to provide that certainty . I want we to bring forward the necessary legislation for the new mechanism as quickly as we reasonably can , to ensure a smooth and orderly transition for the sector . that be hugely important , and for as long as I be in this post I will do all I can to make sure that we can do that ; I hear the point make by member on both side of the House . the Government be already deliver a fair and orderly transition in the North sea . across the country , we be drive growth and secure skilled job for future generation , and that be just as true in the North sea , where we have see unprecedented level of investment in offshore wind and where this Government have sign contract for two first - of - a - kind carbon capture and storage cluster . this endeavour also include Great British Energy , which , from its headquarters in Aberdeen , will create thousand of job across the country , invest up to £ 1 billion in clean energy supply chain and , as a publicly own energy company , ensure that the clean energy revolution be build in Britain . alongside that , the Office for Clean Energy Jobs will work to ensure that we have the skilled clean energy workforce to deliver those goal , so that this investment unlock thousand of new job , kick - starts growth in community and industrial town , and secure a clean and more independent energy future for the UK . will the Minister give way ? will the Minister give way ? I shall take both intervention . a number of skilled job be go out of the North sea , and many of these worker will go to other country — that be the point make by the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) . that be not sustainable for the skill transfer into the offshore renewable sector , and it be dent investor confidence . there be a serious risk that the build - out of offshore renewable will not go fast enough if investor confidence disappear because of skill loss . it be hugely important that the EPL be address as quickly as possible to prevent that from continue . as I say just a few moment ago , 100 , 000 job be directly or indirectly link to the work and activity in this sector , and it be vital that we support people with that transition . in the long - term , carbon capture and storage alone be expect to support 50 , 000 skilled job by 2050 as we move towards a clean energy transition . I be acutely aware — I have hear it from Opposition Members , and I be sure that I will hear it from my hon . friend in a second — that we must get the balance right between the timing of phase out and wind down production in the North sea , and ramp up the clean energy and good job that we need for the future . we have to do all we can to protect the sector . will the Minister give way on that point ? I will first take the intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) . I thank the Minister for give way , but I note that he take my intervention second rather than first — I be not offend ! on the position in Scotland , it be worthe remember that Scotland ' s Deputy First Minister say at the SNP party conference at the weekend that the Scottish Government want to scrap the EPL — sorry , I mean they want to replace it with something else . but , of course , she do not say what that something else be ; it be slightly cowardly not to define that detail . the Minister be talk about the strength of the renewable sector in the UK and how it be grow under this government , and we all appreciate and welcome that , but that sector also need continuity and a stable framework to work within . do he therefore share my concern about the opposition take the decision to ditch the Climate Change Act , which have really unsettle the whole industry ? I believe the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) be slightly quick in stand up than my hon . friend . I do understand my hon . friend ' s point . it be very important not to be cowardly in politic , which be why I will make sure that we come forward as fast as we can to set out the approach after the EPL be set to end . this Government , under the leadership of a whole range of Cabinet Ministers , be make sure that we can provide that long - term certainty , not chop and change when it come to our policy on net zero . the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan mention energy security , which link to the challenge we have with energy bill . it be worth recognise the truth that , even if we extract every single drop of oil and gas in the North sea , that would not make any material difference to people ' s energy bill or the price that people pay at the pump . oil and gas be trade on international market , and give the decline basin on the UK continental shelf , domestically produce oil and gas do not do anything to reduce price . in fact , it be our reliance on oil and gas that leave british consumer expose to unstable fossil fuel market . in closing , this Government be determined to provide a balance — rise — do the hon . Member really wish to intervene ? [ interruption . ] go on . I thank the Minister for give way on that point : this be about balance . we need to find a balance in the transition of people come out of oil and gas and move into renewable . the difficulty be that we can not say to these highly - skilled people that there be a great job for they in renewable but it be go to be 10 year down the line . that be no use to they at all : they have bill to pay and family to feed . the balance be out of kilter , and I be afraid that the Government be get this wrong . I disagree that the Government be get this wrong . we be do our good to try to find the right balance to support people , industry and job . we will continue to provide a balanced , responsible and predictable regime for the UK oil and gas industry , which I hope will continue to drive growth , support worker and community , protect our energy security and ensure a prosperous future for the North sea as we make our way towards net zero . our commitment , and my commitment as a Minister , to the future of the North sea be clear , and I will continue to engage closely with the industry , worker and member across the House on this important issue . I again thank the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan for secure this important discussion , and I thank member from across the House for their contribution . question put and agree to . House adjourn .