Speaker ' s statement I remind the House that the ballot for the election of Select Committee Chairs be currently take place in Committee Room 15 . it will close at 4 pm . business before Questions Independent Review of Forensic Pathology Resolved , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there be lay before this House a Return of the Report , entitle the Patronising Disposition of Unaccountable Power : Independent Review of Forensic Pathology , date 11 September 2024 . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — Clean Energy Projects what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for clean energy project in Wales . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for clean energy project in Wales . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for clean energy project in Wales . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for clean energy project in Wales . this be my first oral question session as Welsh Secretary , so I congratulate and welcome all member elect to represent Welsh constituency , particularly the 84 % of those member who sit on the Labour Benches . I also welcome the shadow Secretary of State for Scotland , the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , to the Front Bench — for Wales question . finally , I pay tribute to our fantastic Welsh Olympians and Paralympians , who have bring home a record medal haul to a very proud nation . I recently meet the Energy Secretary and visit the energy cluster in Pembrokeshire with the Deputy Prime Minister . the Government have establish Great British Energy to drive down bill , create job and deliver energy security . its new partnership with the Crown Estate will boost new green technology , such as float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . that will supercharge the work already undertake by the Welsh Government , which the Prime Minister see at first hand in west Wales with the new First Minister . I support my right hon . friend ' s sentiment , and wish she well in her job . in advance of the statement , what can she say about job and investment in this crucial sector ? I be delighted that seven Welsh tidal , solar and offshore wind project be successful in secure contract in the Government ' s main scheme for support low - carbon electricity generation . those project will support the Government ' s mission to deliver clean power by 2030 , as well as create high - quality green job and attract private investment . I look forward to further Welsh project come through in future round . I thank my right hon . friend for her answer ; I be delighted to see she in her place . I be pleased to say that the development of the skill need for such project be well under way in Clwyd North . create Enterprise in Rhyl work with local social housing provider to develop energy - efficient housing solution , and have partner with Rhyl College to train local people in renewable energy , green heating and solar technology , give they the key skill need for the green energy sector , and we the local train workforce that we need . do my right hon . friend agree that green energy offer huge growth and employment potential for area such as Clwyd North , and will she join I on a visit to create Enterprise the next time she be back home in north Wales ? I congratulate my hon . friend on win her seat . the Government have a clear mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower by invest in home - grow energy to grow the economy , create job , boost skill and strengthen our energy independence . in Wales , we have the resource and skill to be a leader in cut - edge energy technology , create high - quality job right across the country , include in north Wales . it would be a pleasure to visit create Enterprise with my hon . friend . my right hon . Friend mention the exciting opportunity from offshore wind for the people and economy of Wales . can she tell the House about the discussion that she and her Cabinet colleague have have with the Crown Estate about maximise the benefit from those opportunity ? we believe that the new innovative partnership between Great British Energy and the Crown Estate will leverage up to £ 60 billion of private investment into the UK ' s drive for energy independence . I be delighted that the Crown Estate have today publish plan to bring an additional 20 GW to 30 GW of offshore wind to market by 2030 . that be excellent news for Wales ' s clean energy ambition , particularly for float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . I recently meet the Energy Secretary , and separately the Crown Estate , to discuss how this new industry can deliver job and growth across Wales . will the Secretary of State set out how great British Energy will deliver benefit to the port of Milford Haven and to family across my constituency ? I welcome my hon . friend to his seat . I have the privilege of visit the port of Milford Haven energy cluster in Pembrokeshire with he and the Deputy Prime Minister in August . I really value the critical role that the port play in secure the UK ' s energy supply , and I be proud that the region be pioneer new green technology . we have establish Great British Energy to drive investment in those technology , which will deliver sustainable skilled job in Pembrokeshire and across Wales . Ynys M ô n have a long history of clean energy production , but Tory delay on Wylfa have cost the island over 400 job since 2010 . in March , the Secretary of State urge the UK Government to get on with deliver new nuclear power . now that she be in power , will she back those word with a concrete plan ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . our manifesto commitment to deliver new nuclear in place such as Wylfa still stand — we will do that . the Government have now complete the purchase of the Wylfa site , as she know . we will end over a decade of inaction by the previous Government on nuclear power , as part of our wide plan to get Britain build again . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I congratulate new Ministers on their appointment . the last Conservative Government spearhead various clean energy scheme for Wales , include the celtic freeport , which have the potential to create more than 10 , 000 green job . will the Secretary of State join I in recognise that the last Conservative Government lead the way in deliver clean energy project for Wales ? do she recognise that the Welsh Government also have to play their part , and what discussion she have have with they about their own plan to support clean energy project in Wales ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his remark . my colleague the Secretary of State for Business and Trade say immediately after the election that we do not intend to make any change to exist freeport commitment . I be back the delivery of the two freeport in Wales , and I be very pleased that , with the involvement of the Welsh Government , we have fair work element in those freeport , which I fully support . steel Industry what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support the steel industry in Wales . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support the steel industry in Wales . under my chairmanship , the transition board have move from discussion to delivery . last month , I announce £ 13 . 5 million for supply chain , skill and employability fund . I also announce our business and community pledge scheme , bring together over 50 organisation in support of affected worker . I thank my right hon . friend for begin to deliver fund to support business confidence and provide a safety net for worker . will she explain how that will support worker who be deal with great uncertainty ? the two fund that have be announce be specifically for people in business and in the supply chain , because we know that they have already be affect by the uncertainty of the situation at Port Talbot . they will help people to retrain and reskill into new employment , and will help business to diversify and go into new market if they be a primary customer of Tata Steel . I know that my right hon . friend will serve Wales admirably in her new role . llanwern steelwork in Newport be a key strategic site that manufacture world - class automotive steel and more , and it have so much potential . we all await the statement later , but can she outline what she have be do , alongside the Department for Business and Trade , to secure future investment in Llanwern as part of ongoing discussion with Tata ? the Government absolutely understand the importance of Llanwern as a key manufacturing facility for steel product . we have work with Tata Steel UK to ensure that Llanwern be clearly consider in plan for the future of steel in south Wales . my hon . friend be a dedicated advocate for the worker at Llanwern , and I know that that she will follow closely the upcoming statement from the Secretary of State for Business and Trade . I call the shadow Secretary of State . today the Government be expect to unveil detail of their steel plan for south Wales . from what have be brief to the press , it seem that the new deal be , at its core , the same deal — worth hundred of million of pound — that be agree by the last Conservative Government . at the time , the Secretary of State and the Welsh Labour party appear to rubbish the deal , and suggest that a well one be possible . do she now regret the Labour party ' s previous criticism of the deal ? I do not recognise that characterisation of the deal on which the Business Secretary will make a statement later . he will make that statement to the House — I do not want to pre - empt it , because we be a party and a Government who will always come to the House first to make major announcement — but I be confident that he will set out a sustainable future for steelmaking in Port Talbot , in Wales and across the UK . the fact remain that key part of the deal , as it appear in the press , appear to be largely unchanged from what be agree before , include almost £ 100 million to help steelworker who might lose their job . in its negotiation with the last government , Tata Steel be crystal clear that no other deal be possible . move forward , it be crucial that fund to help retrain those who will lose their job reach they swiftly , so will the Secretary of State lie out the detail of how and when the money will be send to those impact ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer . we have the transition board in place for nearly 10 month under the last government and not a single penny go out the door to business or worker affect . within week of my taking over chairmanship of the transition board , £ 13 . 5 million have be release to help supply chain business and worker . that be the first tranche , with further fund to come . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Front Benchers to their place . they will know that the steel industry in Wales be just one of a number that have suffer in recent decade . last year , the Industrial Communities Alliance say that tackle the effect of deindustrialisation in Wales have be hamper by competitive bidding , which force local authority in deprive area to bid against each other , prevent partnership work and a more strategic approach . will the Secretary of State confirm whether future round of the UK share prosperity fund allocate to Wales will no long be subject to competitive bidding ? this Government be elect on a manifesto that stress a partnership approach with local authority and an intention to stabilise the funding system , move away from wasteful competition . those be the principle we will seek to apply as we think about the future of local growth funding . as with all government decision regard funding beyond March 2025 , it be ultimately a matter for the spending review . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . under the previous Government , the transition board meet six time and form two sub - committee , but do not distribute a single penny of the funding that be promise to support business and worker in south Wales . will the Secretary of State provide an assessment of how the transition board have change under her leadership ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her election as Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , and I look forward to engage with she and her colleague as they take on their important work . as I set out , we have release £ 13 . 5 million as the first tranche of funding from the transition board . that have change the situation radically from discussion to delivery . that be what we promise ; that be what we have deliver . cross - border Train Services whether she have have recent discussion with ( a ) Cabinet colleague and ( b ) the Welsh Government on step to improve cross - border train service . last week , I meet the Transport Secretary to discuss rail infrastructure and step to improve cross - border connectivity . I also join the Welsh Government Cabinet Secretary , Ken Skates , to announce the joint Network Rail and Transport for Wales programme that will increase rail capacity by 40 % , with 50 % more timetabled service on the north Wales main line . it a real delight to see my right hon . friend in her place . the train line from Aberystwyth to Birmingham International via Telford be critical to the university , and to the economy and connectivity of mid Wales , Telford and wide Shropshire . what conversation have my right hon . Friend have with the Welsh Government , Transport for Wales and the Department for Transport about improve that line and the roll stock ? I agree with my hon . friend that the cambrian line provide an important connection to and from Aberystwyth University , and it play a key role in support cross - border connectivity for the people of mid - Wales and beyond . in recent year , Network Rail have undertake work to improve infrastructure on the cambrian line to support the introduction of new train . enhancement to the railway in Wales that deliver passenger benefit , include propose electrification , be be consider by the Wales Rail Board . I call Liz Saville Roberts . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Llefarydd . I be sure the Secretary of State will join I in send every sympathy to the friend and family of the late , great singer and comedian Dewi Pws . on - the - day cancellation on the north Wales to London line stand at 15 . 4 % in August . we consistently have the high on - the - day cancellation rate for the entire Avanti network , three to four time high than the next bad part of the network . how will the Secretary of State use her role to stop Avanti punish Welsh traveller ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her question , and concur with her remark . the Government be clear that the performance of Avanti West Coast have not be good enough . many time in this Chamber , we have hear about the appalling service — too many cancellation and too many delay . this Government have require Avanti West Coast to improve its performance on service , and I discuss this matter with the Transport Secretary last week . minister and official be hold regular performance review with Avanti West Coast and Network Rail to hold they to account , closely monitor compliance with contractual obligation and drive improvement use the contractual mechanism . sadly , it seem that between the Welsh Government and Labour in government here in the UK , that service in north Wales be not a priority — we see that in the rate of on - the - day cancellation . the truth be that the railway be break , and labour ' s plan fail to address the chronic underfunding that be the cause , particularly in Wales . in 2022 , the Secretary of State — then shadow Secretary of State — say that it be " utterly illogical " to designate hs2 as an England and Wales project , and call on the Conservatives to " cough up " the billion owe to Wales . will she cough up now ? we can not go back in time and change the way that project be commission , manage and classify by the previous Conservative Government . they need to accept responsibility for the chaos , delay and waste on their watch . what we can do , though , be work closely with our Senedd and local authority colleague to develop and invest in transport project that improve service for passenger right across Wales . Transport Infrastructure what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help improve transport infrastructure in Wales . I be pleased to meet with the Transport Secretary last week to discuss our approach to rail in Wales . she be review the previous Government ' s transport infrastructure commitment and will report in the autumn . we will deliver rail improvement that will make the service more accountable to the people who use they through the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , which complete its Commons stage last week , and great British Railways , which be launch in shadow form early this month . it be great to see my right hon . friend in her place . connection between my constituency of Wirral West and north Wales be many , they be deep , and they be value on both side of the border . sadly , though , our transport connection be lag behind . could she please set out what conversation she be have with Ministers and stakeholder to improve those connection ? I welcome my hon . friend to the House and congratulate he on his election . in my meeting with the Transport Secretary last week , we discuss a range of issue , include connection between Wales and Merseyside . I recognise the importance of cross - border travel for people across the region . the UK and Welsh Governments be commit to strengthen those connection , which be vital to unlock economic growth and employment opportunity for people and business . I know that rail enhancement be require to improve service on the Wrexham to Bidston line , and will work across Government to drive progress . economic Growth what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support economic growth in Wales . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support economic growth in Wales . this government ' s no . 1 mission be to kick - start economic growth across the United Kingdom . Wales can be at the forefront of that mission , with renewable energy , advanced manufacturing , our vibrant creative sector , fintech and the life science each offer huge opportunity to create job and drive growth . I thank the Minister for her answer and congratulate she on her appointment . Welsh university be central to economic growth in many of our community , but these be difficult time : Swansea University have already see 200 voluntary redundancy , and many more be happen across Wales . our university be affect by decision of the Welsh Government as well as those of the UK Government , so can the Minister update the House on how the two government will work together to nurture those crucial institution ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place , and be very sorry to hear about the recent redundancy at Swansea University . only last week , the Secretary of State and I meet with Professor Paul Boyle , vice - chancellor of Swansea University and chair of Universities Wales , to discuss the challenge face Welsh institution and way of support the high education sector in Wales . we recognise that Welsh university , include Swansea , have a huge contribution to make , both to our mission of growth in the economy and within their local region . colleague at all level in the UK and Welsh Governments be work closely together to safeguard those university ' potential amid the difficult economic circumstance we have inherit . as have already be say , passenger on the north Wales coast be be let down by the poor performance of Avanti . this issue be affect passenger and business , and hamper economic growth in my constituency of Bangor Aberconwy . what specific discussion have the Secretary of State have with our right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport on this issue ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . as she quite rightly say , transport play an essential role in drive economic growth across Wales . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State meet the Transport Secretary last week to discuss rail connectivity , include the performance of Avanti . as the Secretary of State have set out , the Government be clear that the performance of Avanti have not be good enough , with too many cancellation and delay . so Ministers and official be now hold regular performance review with Avanti and Network Rail , and monitor Avanti West Coast compliance with its contractual obligation , with the aim of secure well service for her constituent . one of the big contribution to economic growth be the agrifood sector . with today be back British Farming Day , do the Minister agree that farmer , whether they be in Wales or Northern Ireland , need the support of this government to ensure they reach their full potential to contribute to economic growth ? as the hon . Member quite rightly say , farmer make a huge contribution both to the economic growth of this country and to our food security . that be why we be absolutely determined to work hand in hand with the Welsh Government to ensure that we can offer the very good to our Welsh farmer . Nuclear Power Plant : Wylfa what the Government ' s policy be on the propose nuclear power plant at Wylfa . nuclear energy can play an important role in help to achieve energy security and clean power , while provide thousand of skilled job . great British Nuclear have acquire the Wylfa site with a view to develop a new nuclear project . decision on the project and the technology to be deploy at Wylfa will be make in due course . the last Government announce the big expansion in nuclear power for 70 year , include the commissioning of Hinkley Point C in Somerset . do the Minister agree that a new nuclear power plant at Wylfa be vital to the UK ' s energy security , and can she give a timeline for its development ? as a previously designate nuclear site that have host nuclear power , Wylfa be ideally place either to be use for large - scale nuclear , or to be use for a series of small modular reactor . we will be set out our plan for the site in due course . rural Digital Infrastructure what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to improve digital infrastructure in rural Wales . this Government be commit to improve digital connectivity , as demonstrate by our commitment to full gigabit and national 5 g coverage by 2030 . I have recently meet internet and mobile provider as well as Ofcom . the hon . member will be aware that , thank to the UK Government ' s share rural network , 4 g connectivity have be boost in his constituency as a result of the activation last month of two additional mast . many of my constituent live in area such as Llanwrthwl and Llanafan Fawr have be miss out by previous roll - out scheme . be the Government commit to ensure that funding be available to ensure that people live in so - call hard - to - reach area can be connect ? I very much appreciate the concern that the hon . Member have for his constituent , particularly in a rural area that have so many challenge for connectivity . I can tell he that over 90 % of premise in his constituency can access superfast broadband speed . to extend gigabit - capable coverage far , approximately 3 , 000 premise in his constituency be currently expect to receive gigabit - capable connection through the Project Gigabit cross regional procurement framework . alongside this , there be 21 voucher project across the constituency , which will cover approximately 5 , 000 premise . however , if he have any concern , perhaps he could come and see I on the matter . NHS Waiting Lists what discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on NHS waiting list . we recognise that the NHS in Wales face unique challenge , and we be commit to work closely with the Welsh Government to improve NHS waiting time . our approach be ground in the belief that public service , such as healthcare , should not just be fit for purpose today , but be robust and resilient for the future . treat cancer early be critical for survival rate . in England , the target be to have 85 % of patient treat within 62 day . in Wales , that target be more generous ; it be just 75 % , yet it have never be achieve . the current rate be an appalling 56 . 7 % , much bad than the equivalent figure in England . why be it that Welsh Labour be underperform England ? be it really still the blueprint for Government ? More people in Wales have be tell that they do not have cancer than ever before , and that be good news . performance increase against the 62 - day target for treatment in June compare with the previous month , and over the past two year , the number of patient wait long than two year have reduce . average wait for treatment remain steady . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 11 September . this weekend we remember the late queen and her endure legacy of service and devotion to our country , and I be proud to announce a new national monument locate at St James ' s Park to honour her memory . I know that the whole House will join I in send our good wish to the Princess of Wales as she complete her treatment . this afternoon we will introduce the Renters ' Rights Bill . after year of inaction , this Government will oversee the big levelling up of renter ’ right in a generation , and I urge the whole House to get behind it . later this week , I will visit Washington to meet President Biden for a strategic discussion on foreign policy . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . back in the 1990 , the Conservatives claim that the minimum wage would cost 1 million job . instead , low earner have see the fast pay rise year after year , with no effect on employment — [ interruption . ] they oppose it . today , and on their watch , 1 million worker be on zero - hour contract and more than 1 million people have no sick pay whatsoever , face risk that nobody in this House would bear . the detail matter , but it be outdated nonsense — order . please sit down . one , it be easy if you face I — I can hear it well . the second part be that it be mean to be a question , not a statement . [ interruption . ] no , I decide . I call the Prime Minister . economic growth be our no . 1 mission , and that be why we forge a new , positive relationship with business , but too many people be insecure at work , and that hold they back and hold our economy back . this Government be elect to deliver for work people , and that be exactly what we will do . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I join the Prime Minister in his word about her late Majesty the Queen and in his word about the Princess of Wales . she have be in the thought of everyone across the country , and I know that everyone in the House will be delighted and relieve at the progress she have make . may I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to Nicholas Howard ? this be his last Prime Minister ' s question after support eight consecutive Prime Ministers through these session . it be never my favourite part of the week , but his commendable service make it far more manageable . yesterday , Labour mp vote to remove the winter fuel payment from more than 10 million british pensioner , include those with just £ 13 , 000 of income . with that decision debate and make , it be now important that the House understand the full consequence of the Government ' s choice . may I specifically ask the Prime Minister this : will he now publish the impact assessment before the House rise ? the fact of the matter be this : the Conservatives leave a £ 22 billion black hole , and they hide it from the Office for Budget Responsibility . Richard Hughes be absolutely clear that it be the " large year - ahead " overspend outside the pandemic . of course , when it come to mitigation and impact , we have put those in place , ramp up pension credit , deal with housing benefit and link it — something that the party opposite do not do for year . because of the tough decision that we be make to stabilise the economy , we can make sure that , through the triple lock , increase in pension will outstrip any loss of payment . but before the right hon . Gentleman complain about we clear up his mess , perhaps he would like to apologise for the £ 22 billion black hole . this have — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the question . when I be in government , I deliver record increase in the state pension . we protect the winter fuel payment , and we give pensioner cost of living benefit . the Prime Minister be the one who be take money away from pensioner on £ 13 , 000 . this have get nothing to do with the public finance . just this morning , his own Chancellor — his mps may not have be listen to she — admit that she would prefer it if this policy do not even raise any money . obviously , the Government would not have make this decision without an impact analysis . yesterday , the Energy Minister confirm that . so I ask very simply again : why will he not publish the assessment now ? I remember the day when the conservative party be concern about balance the book . it have leave a £ 22 billion black hole ; responsibility for this decision lie there . the only way we can rebuild our country , invest in our public service and make sure that everyone be well off be if we clear up that mess and deal with the £ 22 billion black hole . last week , we learn that the shadow Housing Secretary be call for mean - testing of winter fuel payment , and now it turn out that the shadow Paymaster General agree with she and even boast about texte his own mother say that she do not need the payment . until the right hon . gentleman apologise for the mess that the Conservatives have create , he be in no position to criticise the action that we be take . hear , hear ! they be shout now , but those argument do not even convince 50 of the Prime Minister ' s own mps , who suddenly find yesterday that they have urgent business elsewhere . we know why the Prime Minister be hide the impact assessment : the Labour party ' s own previous analysis claim that this policy could cause 3 , 850 death . be the number in his impact assessment higher or low than that ? we be take this decision to stabilise the economy . that mean that we can commit to the triple lock . by commit to the triple lock , we can make sure that payment of state pension be high , and therefore there be more money in the pocket of pensioner , notwithstanding the tough action that we need to take . the right hon . Gentleman go around pretend that everything be fine . that be the argument that he try in the election , and that be why he be sit on the Opposition side and we be sit on the Government side . pensioner watch today will have see that the Prime Minister have repeatedly refuse to admit or to publish the consequence of his decision . we will continue hold he to account for that . change topic , today be Back British Farming Day , when we recognise that british farmer produce food that be of high quality and have high welfare standard and high environmental standard than import food . at a time of increase global volatility , it be also crucial for our food security and national security . will the Prime Minister therefore confirm whether he will be adopt the National Farmers Union ' s recent proposal to enshrine a national food security target in law ? food security be really important ; I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman raise that . we have talk to the NFU about it . rural issue be really important — that be what we fight the election on and why we have a lot of rural constituency member sit behind I now . we will continue to talk to the NFU . we take food security very seriously . I be not sure I hear a specific answer , but farmer also do great work to preserve the beauty of the british countryside — something I be sure the Prime Minister will appreciate , give his new - find preference for landscape over political portraiture . when it come to land use , protection be currently in place to ensure that the most productive farmland be use for food production rather than alternative like solar . do he agree that it be not appropriate or right that developer with a vested interest grade the quality of that farmland themselves ? will he look at make that process independent ? rural community be neglect under the last government . confidence be at an all - time low , and thousand of food and farming business be be force out of business . of course , we will work with they and get the balance right but , again , we be pick up and clear up the mess , and rebuild our country . as a glimpse , in Wales , the Labour Government hammer farmer , hit they with top - down eco - target . labour ' s own assessment of those plan say that it would lead to thousand of job loss , less food security and would destroy rural income , while farmer describe it as bleak and damaging . will the Prime Minister reassure english farmer that he will not threaten their livelihood , and will he rule out impose those same top - down target here ? we will work with farmer across the whole of the United Kingdom , as we have make clear , to support they . but here we be , and it be absolutely clear : no contrition and no responsibility for the economic black hole , the broken NHS or the prison crisis — the ruinous legacy of 14 year of failure . we have start rebuild the country : renter ' reform , house building , GB Energy , the national wealth fund and the border security command — I could go on . while the opposition try to rewrite history , we be get on with build a well country for the future . I be sure the whole House will join I in pay our respect to Lieutenant Rhodri Leyshon , who tragically pass away last week . my thought be with his family and love one , and with the HMS Queen Elizabeth crew during this very difficult time . housing in Portsmouth be in dire strait , but local resident in Portsmouth North have valid concern around population density , infrastructure and the environment , so I be glad that this Government be work on deliver affordable housing in the city . will the Prime Minister ensure that the infrastructure be properly consider , and that community be involve in the planning process for any new development ? let I start by say that I be sure that the whole House will join I in send condolence to the family of Lieutenant Leyshon . I agree on the desperate need for affordable housing , which be why we will deliver the big social and affordable housing uplift in a generation . we will get Britain build again — 1 . 5 million house — because the dream of home ownership be snuff out under the last government . we now come to the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I associate myself and my party with the early comment from the Prime Minister about our amazing late queen , and join he in send our good wish to her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales . I do not think anyone could not have be move by her powerful video , and we hope that she will make a full and speedy recovery . when it come to fight cancer , we know all too well that every day count . in the last year of the last government , over 100 , 000 patient wait more than two month just to start their urgent cancer treatment — the bad on record . will the Prime Minister help boost cancer survival rate by guarantee that every patient can start their cancer treatment within 62 day ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question on a really important issue . a report by Lord Darzi will be out tomorrow , which will set out in stark term the failure in cancer treatment under the last government , which be a really serious issue . this timeline matter , which be why we be take step straight away to ensure that we comply with it , because life depend on it . we have already take the decision to put in more scanner and to use technology to catch this early . it be a very serious issue , and a very serious failure by the last Government . I thank the Prime Minister for that answer . I will look at the plan the Government be put forward . last night , Liberal Democrats vote against withdraw winter fuel payment . we believe it be just wrong to balance the book by remove this support from pensioner , but we do understand that there be difficult choice to be make to clear up the appalling financial mess leave by the last Conservative Government . one of the many reason for that mess be the Conservatives prioritise tax cut for the big bank , cost £ 4 billion a year . will the Prime Minister instead reverse those cut , so we can afford to support million of struggle pensioner through this very hard winter ? I will resist the temptation to get ahead of the Budget . what be important be that we recognise there be a £ 22 billion black hole that have be leave by the previous Government . [ interruption . ] their practice be to ignore it and kick it into the long grass . we be take the tough decision , because I be absolutely convinced that that be the only way we can start rebuild our country , invest in our public service and make sure that everybody be well off . my Southport constituency have experience a difficult summer . first , I want to reiterate that our thought be with the family of Alice , Bebe and Elsie , who tragically lose their life in the attack in July . I welcome the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary to our town in the week that follow and we work together to find further way to bring our community together . may I therefore ask the Prime Minister to take this opportunity to recommit to the Government ' s support for our town , for those grieve and affect by the tragic attack ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . we stand with those who tragically lose their love one in this heinous attack . I do go up to Southport the day after , and go back three day after that on a private visit , to meet some of the first responder who have be at the scene , simply to say thank you to they . I can not tell the House how angry I be when I get back to London and see that those same officer who have respond be have thing throw at they by far - right thug . we will work tirelessly to support my hon . friend ' s constituent . I thank he , as well , for his hard work at this difficult time , work with Sefton borough council and Liverpool city region combine authority to deliver a support package . the community have endure a horrendous event and should be support , and I know it will be across the whole House . yesterday , we witness some extraordinary celebratory scene outside Britain ' s prison , where in some case serious career criminal be release . that be to make way for — yes — rioter , but equally those who have say unpleasant thing on Facebook and elsewhere on social medium . do the Prime Minister understand that there be a grow feeling of anger in this country that we be live through two - tier policing and a two - tier justice system ? I be angry to be put in the position of have to release people who should be in prison because the last Government break the prison system . the last Prime Minister be repeatedly warn — he have his own release scheme — that he have to adopt the scheme that we have put in place . the former Justice Secretary say that if they do not do it , they would have to get down on their knee and pray . police chief make it absolutely clear , in a letter to the last Prime Minister before the election , that he need to take action , say that they would not be able to discharge their duty and that the risk be a loss of the ability to detain suspect . that mean an inability to arrest people commit offence — that be how bad it be . they warn he that further delay until after the general election would increase the risk significantly . what do he do ? he delay and increase the risk . I welcome the Government ' s swift action to bring railway back into public ownership . great British Railways will deliver much - need reform , ensure that the network serve both passenger and rail freight effectively . will the Prime Minister explain how Labour ' s ambitious railway plan will also deliver improvement to rail infrastructure to ensure that my constituent get the service they deserve at Luton station ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter . one of the first Bills we introduce be to reform our railway after 14 year of chaos . great British Railways will unite track and train under a single leadership . that mean close collaboration across the industry and fast , more effective decision on critical infrastructure , and I know how vital that will be in relation to both Luton and Leagrave station in her constituency . we be carefully consider the good approach , but I assure she we be committed to ensure that our railway will be open to everyone . today be Back British Farming Day . the previous Government let our farmer down and , in their incompetence , underspent the farming budget by £ 100 million . will the Prime Minister deny rumour that his Government plan to take advantage of the Conservatives ' failure by remove that £ 100 million permanently ? farmer across the country want to know that the Prime Minister will increase the agriculture budget , as the Lib Dem manifesto propose , speed up the roll - out of the new environmental land management scheme , and support profitable , sustainable and nature - friendly farming . this be a really important issue ; our rural community be neglect by the previous Government , which be why confidence be at an all - time low . we will protect farmer from be undercut in trade deal , make the supply chain work more fairly , and prevent shock rise in bill by switch to GB Energy . we will not pre - empt the Budget in relation to this matter , but we will put the support in place . many of my constituent , include those at Chapel Gate , have tell I about the so - call management agent , who charge they rip - off service fee and then fail to provide even the most basic of maintenance . many constituent spend hour each week battle these agent , just to ensure that they and their neighbour be not fleece in their own home . will the Prime Minister recommit this Government to act — where the previous Government fail — to reform the leasehold system , which be archaic , outdated and feudal ? may I first welcome the first - ever Labour MP for Basingstoke ? yes , we will reiterate our commitment to act to bring the feudal leasehold system to an end and ensure that leaseholder can benefit from more right , power and protection over their home . international law be clear : drop 2 , 000 lb bomb on densely populate civilian area be a crime . it be beyond dispute that Israel have use F - 35s to do exactly that , yet this Government have choose to exempt F - 35 component from the arm licence suspension , when all they have to do be say that Israel could not be the end user if UK - manufacture part be include . last week , the Prime Minister stand at the Dispatch Box and say , " we either comply with international law or we do not . " — [ Official Report , 4 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 303 . ] why have he choose not to ? we be comply with international law . we have set out our reasoning , and I think all fair - minded member of the House would support the decision that we have take . the most important thing now be that we get a ceasefire in place — that be one of the topic that I will be discuss on Friday — to ensure that the remain hostage can come out , the desperately need aid can go in , and we can start the process to a two - state solution , which be the only way to last peace . as the Prime Minister will know , Fife have a proud defence heritage , and that continue in my constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar with the dockyard at Rosyth , which construct Type 31 frigate for the Royal Navy , and a supply chain of local small and medium - sized enterprise . will the Prime Minister ensure that the strategic defence and security review team visit area of strategic importance , such as Fife , so that they can engage fully with the local supply chain and ensure that the SDSR support Britain ' s security and local economy ? I thank my hon . friend for champion his constituency , include the work at Rosyth dockyard . the strategic defence review will ensure that defence be central both to security and to economic growth and prosperity . the review will consult widely , include across the devolved nation , and I know that the reviewer recognise the strategic importance of constituency like his . I will ensure that he get the chance to meet the relevant Minister to discuss the particular issue in his constituency . the previous Conservative Government commit themselves to rebuild Whipps Cross hospital and Princess Alexandra hospital in Harlow , and to the establishment of a new community — order . I be determined to hear this question . I do not expect Members on the Front Bench to be shout I down , and it will not happen . thank you , Mr Speaker . the previous Conservative Government — [ interruption . ] order . do you want to join in again ? thank you , Mr Speaker . the previous Conservative Government commit themselves to rebuild Whipps Cross hospital and Princess Alexandra hospital in Harlow , and to the establishment of a new community diagnostic centre at St Margaret ' s hospital in Epping . will the new Labour Government honour those commitment in full and make progress with those project , which be vital to improve the health service need by my constituent ? if it help the Prime Minister at all with his answer , I can tell he that those service will also help some of the constituent of his Health Secretary , just next door in Ilford North . the hon . Gentleman be right to champion the hospital in his constituency . the problem with what the last Government promise be this : they promise 40 new hospital , but there be not 40 , they be not new , and many of they be not hospital . we need to review what we can do and put it on a sustainable , deliverable basis , but we will do that , and the hon . Gentleman be right to champion those in his constituency . last week , I meet my constituent Cheryl Korbel , the mother of Olivia Pratt - Korbel , the nine - year - old who be tragically murder in 2022 . Cheryl be campaign for Olivia ' s law , which would compel convict criminal to attend court to face the judge and receive their sentence . will my right hon . and learn Friend commit himself to support Olivia ' s law , and will he meet Cheryl to discuss how we can move this forward without delay ? in the King ' s Speech , we confirm that we intend to introduce legislation in this session so that court would have the power to order the most serious offender to attend their sentencing hearing . this be really important , and I know that that be feel across the House , because to deprive victim and their family of see the sentencing exercise be to deprive they of justice . I will meet Cheryl ; indeed , I have already meet Cheryl , and I give she a commitment last August that we would do this . I repeat that commitment today , and I pay tribute to the campaign that she have lead . if the Prime Minister be a pensioner earn £ 11 , 350 this year and receive no winter fuel payment , what would he prioritise this Christmas — heating or eat ? we have to be clear about why this decision be be make : there be a £ 22 billion black hole . the last Government would walk past these tough decision and pretend they be not there — they would kick they into the long grass — but we be not prepared to do that . because we be take tough decision , we can commit ourselves to the triple lock , and that mean that the state pension will increase by more than any loss of the winter fuel payment . but I will just say this : the big impact on pensioner in recent year be when the Conservative Government lose control of inflation and allow energy price to go through the roof , and we go through a cost of living crisis . we be stabilise the economy to make sure that pensioner never , ever have to live through that again . Annabel be five year old and live in my constituency . she have high - risk neuroblastoma . Annabel have endure 15 month of chemotherapy , high - dose chemotherapy , stem cell harvest , proton therapy , immunotherapy , hair loss and nasal feeding . now she urgently need the drug dfmo , which be not yet available in the UK . it must be administer within 90 day of the end of immunotherapy ; 91 day be too late . will the Prime Minister please meet Annabel ' s parent to discuss the lifesaving care that she need ? I pay tribute to Annabel for her incredible bravery . I understand how important it be that cancer patient be able to benefit from rapid access to effective new treatment . the manufacturer of this drug have apply for a UK licence through Project Orbis , which allow the rapid review and approval of new cancer treatment . we will ensure that that process be complete as quickly as possible , and I will also ensure that the Health Minister set up the meeting that my hon . friend have ask for . I think that socialism be about tax those with the broad shoulder in order to help the most vulnerable , but it appear that starmer socialism involve scare those with the broad shoulder out of the country while take away the winter fuel allowance for frail 90 - year - old live in draughty home . will the Prime Minister apologise to my shiver constituent for his personal choice , and will he reverse this chilling decision ? my choice be to stabilise the economy after 14 year of failure , and I will tell the House why : when a government lose control of the economy , it be work people who pay the price . I will not let that happen under a Labour Government . More than half of people with pancreatic cancer die within three month of diagnosis , and seven in 10 never even receive treatment . every two minute in the UK , someone be diagnose with cancer , but for those diagnose with the least survivable cancer , time have too often already run out . I be really proud of the Labour Government ' s commitment to our NHS , but will the Prime Minister now commit to review the long - term cancer strategy so that we can improve diagnosis and treatment rate in this country ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue ; it be the second time it have be raise in this session . I will have a lot more to say tomorrow , when I deal with Lord Darzi ' s report . I pay tribute to she for her tireless campaigning , particularly in relation to pancreatic cancer . cancer patient have be fail by the last government , and have be wait far too long for diagnosis and treatment . we will get the NHS capturing cancer on time , diagnose it early and treat it fast , so that more patient survive this horrible set of disease . follow labour ' s disgraceful political decision to scrap winter fuel payment , with little notice to million of pensioner , will the Prime Minister today rule out scrap concessionary travel fare and council tax discount , which also help million of pensioner across the UK — yes or no ? as the hon . Gentleman know very well , I be not go to pre - empt the Budget . it will all be set out in due course . may I pass on the heartfelt thank of the Bolton Council of Mosques , which greatly appreciate the dedication and leadership that the Prime Minister show during the riot over the summer ? do my right hon . friend agree on the importance of support inter - faith and community group , which play a vital role in bring people together ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . we owe an incredible debt of gratitude to our police for their courage in deal with the recent disorder , and we take action to ensure they have the resource and power that they need to tackle violence and restore order to our street . we also provide additional security for mosque , ensure freedom of worship and protection from racist threat . in the aftermath , we see community who really represent Britain come forward , lead by faith group and community organisation . they show unity and demonstrate our value of tolerance and respect . Diolch , Llefarydd . Denmark have be undergrounde its electricity cable since 2008 , build infrastructure and maintain responsible stewardship of the countryside . the Welsh Labour Government ' s policy be for all new power line to be place underground where possible . the UK Labour Government favour overhead pylon . why be the Prime Minister ' s government oppose Welsh colleague in Wales ? we be absolutely committed to the transition to renewable energy , because it give we energy dependence . it lower bill and , of course , the next generation of job be tie up with it . we have to do it in a cost - effective way , but we will make those decision in a cost - effective way . the UK steel industry need a serious government who work in partnership with both business and trade union to secure a transition that be right for the workforce and deliver economic growth in Wales . we know that deindustrialisation can be devastating for community , so can the Prime Minister tell I how the Government be safeguard job and secure the future of steelmake community like our for generation to come ? we be take every step we can in relation to the steel industry because it be vital that we give it the support that it need . we need steel in this country . we need steel make in this country , and our plan and our mission mean that we be go to need more steel , not less . it be the duty of the Government to ensure that job , community and people be not ignore in the transition and that job be protect . the Business Secretary will provide an update to the House this afternoon . Oxfordshire have see a huge amount of population growth in recent year , without the infrastructure to match . a new railway station on the great western main line between Didcot and Swindon at Grove and Wantage would help to reduce traffic and improve access to both Oxford and London . do the Prime Minister support investment in our railway , and will he meet I to hear the case for a new railway station at Grove and Wantage ? I thank the hon . member for raise this issue , which be important for his constituent . we be commit to put passenger at the heart of our railway . great British Railways will work closely with regional government mayor , operator and passenger group to ensure that rail investment meet the need of community , and I will ensure that he get the meeting he want with the relevant Minister to discuss the issue in his constituency . that complete Prime Minister ' s question . I will let the front Benches clear . Port Talbot Transition Project with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to update the House on the improved deal that this Labour Government have secure for the worker of Tata Steel , specifically as it relate to its plant in Port Talbot . as well as set out the detail of this improve deal , I be also announce today our ambition for a new UK - wide steel strategy — one that equip our steelmaking industry with the right support not just to adapt but to thrive in the new green economy . but before I do so , I want to address the situation we have inherit . since become Secretary of State two month ago , I have have to respond to a series of challenge , not just with the steel industry but in shipping — such as at Harland & Wolff — and in other area where the previous Government have simply cease to make decision and decide to leave they for we to deal with . that be a dereliction of duty and it have leave the steel industry in particular in an extremely perilous position . the previous Government have be promise a plan for the steel industry for year . with what I be able to announce today — with the signing of a legally binding deal that enable Tata to order its electric arc furnace as part of a significantly improve package — this Government have make more progress in two month than they make over the previous Parliament . but if we have start these negotiation even a year ago — never mind year ago as they have the opportunity to do — I have no doubt that we would have secure an even well deal for the community . so I start with an apology to the people of Port Talbot , because they be let down by the previous Government . while this deal be much improve , I acknowledge that it fall short of what would be my ideal . I have , however , be to Port Talbot several time and meet the workforce there , along with the rep and the generation of family who have literally forge Port Talbot as we know it . that be why , when Tata first announce that it would be close the blast furnace , result in some 2 , 800 job loss , I know that the workforce deserve so much well . I warn my predecessor not to proceed with what they have negotiate . why ? because I be confident that the Government could secure a well deal : a well deal for Tata ' s worker and a well deal for the people of Port Talbot . and I be able to announce today that this Government have secure that well deal , but I reiterate that if we have have the opportunity that the previous Government have over so many year we could have do more . the key feature be as follow . first , we have agree a process with Tata to assess investment opportunity for new , additional capability that will deliver more secure , long - term job than the deal we inherit . this be on top of the plan for the instalment of the electric arc furnace . we have agree a process with Tata to take this forward , and I will report back to the House on that progress . but this be the most important element , so I be announce the deal now , rather than after the process be complete , because for Tata to secure the build slot for the electric arc furnace , that element need to be sort now . further delay would put the whole project at risk and could lead to a much bad outcome . secondly , in every conversation I have have with Tata ' s director , I have stress the need to avoid compulsory redundancy wherever possible . I have ask they to channel their effort instead into job matching and retrain so that the steelworker of Port Talbot , who have dedicate so much to the industry in the past , can now help shape its future as they will be able to transition and move within the business . as well as that , Tata be agree to offer a comprehensive training programme for any employee as an alternative for those at risk of compulsory redundancy . this would be on full pay for one month , then £ 27 , 000 a year per employee for 11 month . Tata will fund all those cost . employee will be able to choose from recognise qualification to develop seek - after skill that will be in high demand in the local economy now and long into the future . we know , too , that Tata expect that during the construction of the electric arc furnace at least 500 new job could be create , which will tap into the local labour market wherever possible . thirdly , where we can not secure new job or training , work closely with the union we have help to secure improved term on redundancy . tata ' s employee be now able to express an interest in the most generous voluntary redundancy package the company have ever offer for a restructuring of this size . employee will now be pay 2 . 8 week of earning for each year of service up to a maximum of 25 year . at the same time , we be ensure that there be a minimum redundancy payment — £ 15 , 000 pro rata — and a retention payment of £ 5 , 000 for employee leave the business because of these closure . over 2 , 000 member of staff have express an interest in voluntary redundancy who will be eligible on these term . fourthly , as part of the deal the company will also be release 385 acre of its site for sale or transfer . this be valuable real estate which will help bring in more company and more employer not just from the steel sector but from a whole host of other industry too , help to diversify the workforce at Port Talbot . while Conservative Members tell we that there be no alternative to the original proposal , we know that there be , and we have bargain hard for it . and we be put in watertight condition within our grant funding agreement for job guarantee to claw back investment if these job do not materialise . for example , there be now an improved grant repayment of £ 40 , 000 for every job that be not retain post transformation . this money will be repay directly to the Government and be a powerful incentive for Tata to deliver the 5 , 000 UK job target . but our ambition for steel be so much big and broad than one single company : it be about the whole sector . the UK have always be a proud steelmaking nation , with a rich heritage stretch back to the industrial revolution . from car to crane to ship and scaffold , british steel have be , and be still , use the world over , embody our industrial might and innovation . yet for year steel have be a neglect industry in this country . crude steel production have decline by more than 50 % in the last 10 year . indeed , some proclaim the industry ' s decline would be inevitable in the 21st century — that it be somehow a sunset industry — but those people be wrong : we on this side of the House have never believe that decline be inevitable and while the industry face challenge today we want to do everything we can to ensure that it can adapt and grow tomorrow . that be why I be pleased to announce that we will introduce our new steel strategy . as hon . member know , our manifesto include plan to make available £ 2 . 5 billion for steel , on top of the £ 500 million transformation of Port Talbot . our intention be to increase our UK capability , something the previous Government never attempt , so that we can create a more vibrant and competitive steel sector in the UK . as part of our steel strategy , this Government will look seriously at option to improve steel capability across the supply chain , include in primary steelmaking . we be clear that we can not prioritise short - term subsidy over long - term job , which be why , with the help of independent expert , we will review the viability of technology for production of primary steel , possibly include direct reduce iron . steel be essential to deliver on our net zero goal and build the next generation of green infrastructure , and I know that Labour member be passionate about that . that be why , under our steel strategy , we intend to use the Procurement Act 2023 to drive economic growth and account for social value in the thing that the Government buy and the project we commission . work be already under way to increase the role of steel as we build our manufacturing base . we recognise that , for far too long , Britain ' s energy - intensive industry , include the steel sector , have be hold back by high electricity cost . more often than not , this have make the UK less attractive to international investor , but we will take action on that . our clean energy mission will ensure that we be no long expose to the kind of gas price shock that we have see in recent year , and that will help british business to compete and win in the global market . in support of that ambition , we be work with like - minded nation to tackle global trade distortion , include through our chairing of the global forum on steel excess capacity this year . our steel strategy will be develop and deliver in partnership with the steel sector and trade union , and it will work in lockstep with the Government ' s industrial strategy , which will set out our ambition to ramp up investment , strengthen our supply chain and create more well - pay job in the place where they be need most . in order to drive forward our partnership on the steel strategy , I will shortly meet industry expert and interested party for discussion on the industry ' s future . we intend to publish the steel strategy in the spring of next year . the Government care about steel and the community it support , and recognise steel ' s fundamental importance to the economy . support steel in this country be about be involve in the detail and shepherd individual plant into the future while protect the people in they , but it be also about provide a direction of travel , an inspiration for investment and a cause for confidence , so that the sector can play its part in the next 10 year and beyond . we be not naive about the scale of the challenge before we . although the situation be still challenge , this be a well deal for Port Talbot than be on the table , and it be the maximum improvement we could make in two month . it represent a well destination and a well transition to the bright future that steel will have under this Government . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Secretary of State for give I advance sight of his statement . I wish I could say that I be surprise by any of its content , but the medium and the press have , of course , be relentlessly brief on it over the last couple of day . it be also no surprise that , once again , Labour be preside over the demise of our steel sector . output fall by 47 % under the last Labour Government , and 56 % of job be lose . today ' s deal mean that 100 % of output will go at Port Talbot . an electric arc furnace will take five year at good to get up and run ; some suggest that it will be eight to nine year before a single new job be create , if we see any new job at all . as the statement say , this be a transition , but it be a heartbreaking transition for thousand of people — a transition from be in work to be out of work . in his discussion with Tata , why do the Secretary of State not take step to ensure that the blast furnace will not be close before the new electric arc furnace open ? be this not the New Labour playbook — scrap job , scrap production and become reliant on higher - pollute country for import ? that be not what I call decarbonisation . I must say , I feel a little sorry for the Secretary of State , who have be dispatch here to announce these spending decision just a day after Labour ' s day of shame on winter fuel cut for pensioner . in government , the Conservatives provide a grant of £ 500 million towards the £ 1 . 25 billion invest by Tata Steel , one of the large support package in the government ' s history . at the time of the last government ' s announcement , that support be expect to save at least 5 , 000 job in the company . we work with the Welsh Government and Tata Steel to establish a dedicated transition board to support affected employee and the local economy , back by £ 100 million in total . will the Secretary of State provide an update on any of those job projection ? today ' s announcement be notable for the absence of any reassurance or plan for the thousand of steelworker in Scunthorpe who may not have job by Christmas . equally notable be the Government ' s failure , once again , to provide any detail on the domestic production of virgin steel . the Secretary of State say that we will have a steel strategy in the spring , but thousand of job , along with production capacity , have be scrap today . it be no surprise that last week , during the urgent question on steel , four time , the Minister for Industry fail to commit to safeguard the future of virgin steel production in this country . I be sure that the Secretary of State do not need remind that if he allow the Scunthorpe work to close , too , we will be the only G7 country unable to produce virgin steel . that leave we open and vulnerable to cheap foreign import , particularly from China . to his credit , he have always argue against offshore our steel industry . he concede once that it would be a " fundamental political mistake " . what conversation have he have with the Secretaries of State for Transport and for Defence about the impact of the Government ' s new steel policy on our national security and ability to deliver infrastructure ? will he assure the House that he be do everything in his power to ensure that we do not lose virgin steel manufacturing in the United Kingdom ? for the benefit of new colleague , the Government , when in opposition , be commit to £ 28 billion a year of borrow to fund their decarbonisation plan — a price tag that have magically disappear , although the target have not . the Secretary of State make promise about that to the steel industry , but where be those promise now ? where be that money ? be he still battle the Chancellor ? we know that labour ' s union be quite successful in squeeze money from the Treasury , so maybe he can send they to stand up to the Chancellor if he be have problem . the Government have our support in ensure that the future of steelmaking in this country be sustainable . that go beyond Tata and South Wales . only in Labour ' s world can the word " improved " mean few job and higher - pollute import . when he return to the Dispatch Box , I hope the Secretary of State will do well for UK steelmaking . I have be a Member of Parliament for 14 year , in which I have see some interesting political event , but I do not think I have ever hear a contribution with such brass neck . that be quite something , because there be quite a menu to choose from . let I explain what I be do during polling week , in the lead up to 4 July . Parliament be not sit , and I be shadow Secretary of State . I be go between key seat , as would be expect , negotiate with union , Tata , my colleague in the Welsh Government and every relevant body to prevent action that would have result in the entire closure of the Port Talbot work on polling day . it be as though the Government have already go ; they be not on the pitch . the first thing I have to do , before I even become Secretary of State , be ensure that there be something there to save , because it would have go under the conservative party . [ interruption . ] conservative member really need to listen , because my contribution be factually accurate , and I will help they to understand the real situation . the point of the new investment be to save job . there will be well term for the people who be unable to get the new job , include well cushioning during their retraining for entry into the rest of the economy . I have explain why it be a well deal , as I hope the shadow Minister have see . he mention medium report ; they have not come from my Department , but I appreciate that there be lot of interested party . the union and the Welsh Labour Government recognise that this be a well deal . I hope that the conservative party recognise , on take a step back from the statement , why the deal will make such a difference . the shadow Minister mention virgin steel . let I talk about my frustration about that . he will understand that the two blast furnace site , Scunthorpe and Port Talbot , lose a great deal of money every day . the manager be so feed up with the lack of action under the last government that they have put timescale on their closure . the simple truth be that I do not have the timeframe that be available to the conservative party . moreover , when it come to Scunthorpe , I do not yet have the carbon capture infrastructure in place that will be necessary for the ideal solution . I would love to be a position to look at the hybrid solution that the shadow Minister put forward — keep the blast furnace open while we bring the electric arc furnace online — but all the time that could have be use to work on that be during the Conservative Government , and they do not do that work . there be therefore far few option available to we , and the situation be far more challenging . since I become Secretary of State , I have have many meeting with the UK management about Scunthorpe , and have have three meeting , I believe , with Mr Li , the principal shareholder . I also meet he when I be shadow Secretary of State . we have be clear that we want a transition in Scunthorpe , and want to put up Government money alongside what the company may offer , but that have to be part of a transition to the future . the workforce and the route that be offer to they have to be part of that . even if we be successful in do that , my frustration be that the option available be very difficult for the area . the solution I would ideally deliver , which could have be deliver by the Conservatives in those 14 long year , be not available . when conservative member leave the Chamber today , I hope they reflect on the mistake they make , their lack of action , the legacy they bequeath we and , fundamentally , the improvement we have be able to make in such a short time . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I be not yet Chair of the Committee , Mr Speaker , but finger cross . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement . I hope the whole House will recognise that what he have bring we today be not a set of sound bite but a strategy . in the long term , that strategy will benefit from a strong cross - party consensus , so I hope that it can be the subject of a future Select Committee inquiry . the Secretary of State put his finger on the key issue : to safeguard the future of the steel industry , we need to de - risk the demand for steel in this country . what reassurance can he give the House about how we will use procurement and , crucially , the creation of a big offshore wind industry in this country to drive demand that will keep the furnace go at Port Talbot and elsewhere ? this country pioneer steelmaking ; now we need to reinvent its future . order . may I say to member , especially senior member , that when they speak face the opposite direction from where I be sit , I can not hear what they say ? please , speak towards the Chair . that be how we keep neutrality work as well . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we be not just seek to deliver new , improved transition deal for the key site , but want to improve the overall business and investor environment for steel in the UK . I believe that can be do . the kind of investment in core capacity that we be think about could be very successful in the United Kingdom . obviously , two month be insufficient for the due diligence that be require on some of the elaborate and consider business case necessary , but the process be about deliver that . we can turn this into an extremely positive story for UK steel . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . steelmaking be of vital strategic importance to the UK . we need it to build the crucial infrastructure necessary to generate sustainable growth and safeguard our national security . the neglect of the steel industry in recent year be just another part of the previous Government ' s disastrous legacy . today ' s announcement be a welcome sign of change . the step the Government have outline to help protect job and , crucially , to develop a steel strategy be long overdue . we need to finally move on from a patchwork of last - minute rescue to a long - term plan that will set the industry on a sustainable footing . this be true of the steel industry and across our economy . we desperately need a real industrial strategy that work in tandem with this plan for steel . will the Secretary of State assure we that his steel strategy will be fully align with a wide industrial strategy , and will take a view on steel ' s importance to our economy and society as a whole ? will it aim to balance the need for infrastructure , national security and net zero commitment ? will he assure we that he will bring the strategy to this House by spring next year for scrutiny and debate , so that the industry can finally move on with certainty ? I very much welcome the hon . member ' s word and her recognition of the improvement that we have make with this deal . fundamentally , we have recognise the need for a well business environment , move away from relatively short - term response to that much well , more secure long - term framework . she will understand that the significant increase in investment that this new Government be willing to make can make a substantial difference . however , the emphasis must be on long - term investment for the future , so that we can secure those long - term secure job . there be several different way that we can do that . I absolutely agree that our method should be align with the industrial strategy , and we will be able to make some announcement on that in the near future , lead up to the launch of the steel strategy next year . I call the other potential Chair of the Select Committee . that be incredibly gracious of you , Mr Speaker . [ Laughter . ] I think your word be hear across the Chamber . may I welcome the Secretary of State to his place , and underline the importance of his commitment and the strength of his negotiation ? I add my voice to those who talk about the importance of public procurement , but may I draw his attention to the carbon border adjustment mechanism ? as I understand it , we have a disadvantage in this area because of how the mechanism be establish in the UK . it be due to be introduce on 1 January 2027 , which be late than in the EU , clearly disadvantage our UK producer . will he update the House on what he plan to do in that area ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and to you , Mr Speaker , for your very skilful introduction . he be right to talk about that wide business environment , and specifically ask about the carbon border adjustment mechanism . we have inherit this situation of the UK be out of line with the EU . obviously , because our carbon price be low , there be a potential carbon barrier to UK export to the single market . I can tell he that we be look at that . the carbon border adjustment mechanism be a key part of a wide policy environment that must deliver decarbonisation , which be not deindustrialisation . we must recognise that the current policy environment be not do that in the way that any of we would want . I listen to the statement from the Secretary of State with interest . will he specifically say , first , when the strategy will be publish and bring to this House ? secondly , what level of Government investment will be behind the strategy ? thirdly , what assurance can he give to steelworker across England — at Port Talbot and Scunthorpe in particular — that their job will not be put at risk because of steel be dump in the UK from China ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for her question . we will see the strategy in spring next year and the resource behind it , include the exist Government allocation for Port Talbot and the new money that the Government will put in . it be a £ 3 billion clean steel fund , so it be a significant investment . obviously , I want a certain amount of return from that . I want to work with private sector partner . the kind of capital expenditure that be involve in the transition to green steel require very significant partner who can deliver . it be not just a question of the Government do this alone , and I think hon . member recognise that . steel safeguard be important . the right hon . Lady will know that steel be a significant part of the exist Trade Remedies Authority protection , many of which relate to China , but not exclusively so , and we keep they under regular review . I thank my right hon . friend for today ' s announcement and for remind we of the role that steel play in our green transition . he have do more in two month than the Conservatives do in 14 year . many of my constituent in Monmouthshire , especially in Caldicot and Chepstow , work in the steel supply chain and in steel . do he recognise that his announcement today have ramification for the whole of south Wales ? I thank my hon . friend very much for her question . let I say again that I wish that we be in a position to do even more , but I can tell hon . member that this be the maximum improvement that be possible within two month . I know that in constituency such as my hon . friend ' s people be seek more than anything else a recognition that steel be not a sunset industry . it be vital to the future ; it be not the case that it should be in inevitable decline in the UK . indeed , we be an outlier in term of the size of our steel industry among comparable G7 and OECD country . this could be and should be a very positive story , and I be honestly confident that we can deliver that in future . the right hon . gentleman mention procurement , and over countless year we have have statement and new strategy for steelmaking . will he set out his plan to secure a long - term order book for steelmaking in this country , so that investor can make sure that they get value for money as well as the taxpayer ? equally , how will he endeavour to use the public purse to purchase british steel , while at the same time encourage the export of british steel to other part of the world ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question and very much agree with he . as the shadow Secretary of State , I avidly read the statistic that the Department publish about UK content in domestic steel procurement . we must recognise that it be usually relatively high , but only in the sector where we be produce particular grade of steel . part of the strategy have to look at future demand , not just for what we already produce , but in term of gap and business opportunity . if we be improve the business environment , we need not just to help incumbent producer in the United Kingdom transition , but bring in new entrant , create more competition in the market . I can see that there be significant demand in the market . it be the market that be drive the demand for green steel . I have no concern about the future order book ; it be the business environment take advantage of that demand that this strategy need to address . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and for all his hard work in recent month . it be clear that the delay in the negotiation have have a very real cost . when I be visit Port Talbot on Friday , what the worker and the management want to know be whether those delay have now come to an end . can he reassure the House that we will do everything we can to make sure that the construction do now get go on the future of this plant ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for recently visit the site to speak to management and the workforce . he be right about the understandable level of concern in the workforce . obviously , that be often speculate on in the medium , and there be a huge amount of interest in it . I make this statement today because of the need to proceed with part of the plan , and not to lose everything entirely . I also want to be able to answer question such as his and to make it clear that the Government ' s manifesto commitment to the steel transition fund form part of a wide ambition , a coherent strategy , for the future of steel across every part of the UK . the loss of virgin steel production in Wales be a serious economic blunder that will devastate the community of Port Talbot . union have previously call for additional investment of £ 683 million in Port Talbot to save job . meanwhile , Germany have invest € 1 . 3 billion in decarbonise steel in one region alone this year . can the Secretary of State explain why he will not match the ambition of the worker here and government of other country to save Welsh steel ? the level of ambition and resource that we have as a new Government be actually great than the figure that the hon . Lady have just give . to do the work that she describe require a private sector partner . the Government can not alone meet the capital expenditure need . indeed , to be successful it be well to work with a private sector partner to deliver that . have a partner to retain virgin steel production be part of what the strategy will be able to address . if I have a partner willing to keep blast furnace open , I would be very interested in that . however , I do not want to spend this very large sum of money in our clean steel fund on subsidise operating loss for one or two year , which would eat up most of that £ 3 billion and leave we with nothing at the end of it . I want to co - invest with the private sector for good , secure , long - term job , which be much in demand . she be right to say that other european country have be way ahead of the UK in the past few year , but the level of ambition from this Government not only match that among some of those european competitor but exceed it . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the workforce and their union about this improve deal ? the answer be a great many , as my hon . friend will understand . I have always be conscious not just of the specific impact on the workforce at Port Talbot , but of the fact that some of the big industrial transition of the past in the United Kingdom , in the north - east of England where I grow up , be not handle well . I think people recognise that . I think that the previous Government ' s levelling - up strategy be a recognition of the long - term damage that be do in the late ' 80 and early ' 90 by that transition . get that right , and show the workforce that this be a Government who care , have always be paramount . I have be to Port Talbot several time . I last meet the community rep a week ago , and be able to have frank conversation with they . in everything that I have say , and will continue to say , I recognise that we wish that we be in a position to do more , but within the parameter of what we have and where we almost be , in term of the entire loss of the site , I be confident that this be the big improvement that be possible in two month . we will always work with they to ensure that we be get everything that we can for the site . the wholesale price of electricity in this country be already pretty much the high in Europe , and it will probably get bad as we shift towards renewable , with the possibility of outage and intermittency . that mean that electric arc furnace will become more expensive . what be the Secretary of State do to ensure that supplier do not , perfectly legitimately , turn to China for its virgin steel , produce in dirty blast furnace ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that this have long be a campaigning issue of mine . I have talk repeatedly about the relationship between decarbonisation and the potential for deindustrialisation , and the policy environment in this country not be fit for purpose to deliver that . on the wholesale electricity price of energy - intensive industry , for most of the time under the previous Government the UK ' s price be wildly uncompetitive . there be some movement , as he know , with the supercharger policy near the end . More can be do , and there be an even more exciting long - term position that we could get to . he will have to wait for the Budget , and maybe the spending review , for some more detail on that , but this issue have to be an essential priority for the competitiveness of the UK . we have to recognise that a lot of the industry that we will transition to be very heavy user of electricity — not just clean steel , but for instance gigafactorie . this will be a key tool in the future that we have to do well on than we have in the past 14 year . I congratulate my right hon . friend on secure this improve deal . I know how hard he have work over many year , not just in the short term before and since the election , as he refer to in his answer to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) . on procurement , will there be a presumption in favour of use British - produce steel both in nationally significant project in green energy and in defence ? that would be in stark contrast to what the previous Government do , in particular with the fleet solid support contract . I thank my hon . friend for all his support during our year in opposition , when we tackle many of these issue . he ask about procurement . of course , anything that we do as a Government will be consistent with international trade rule and our commitment to open market and multilateralism . there be a legitimate way in which social value can be consider in Government procurement . give the value and quality of what we produce in the UK , I be very confident in procurement play a big part in the future of the steel industry . on defence and the blast furnace , he will know that neither Scunthorpe nor Port Talbot play a direct role in some of the key Ministry of Defence contract . Sheffield Forgemasters play more of a role in that . there be more capacity and capability that we can look to as a country for opportunity in the future . the truth be — and the country need to know this — that the thousand of job and the loss of the blast furnace announce today be because of both main party ’ obsession with net zero . the reality be that blast furnace have be lose money because of high energy cost cause by very expensive renewable energy , but we be where we be . in the event that Tata do not build the electric arc furnace that be be promise , will the Secretary of State guarantee the House that the taxpayer ' money will be return to the taxpayer ? I be afraid that the hon . Member be misinformed as to what this be about . the issue be that these site lose approximately £ 1 million a day . they have do so for a long time , and the owner be feed up and want to know that there will be a plan for the future . the role of the Government be to make that future well than it would otherwise be be we not on the pitch deliver it . there be issue around the competitive cost of industrial electricity in the UK , but they be not the issue that he say . on the guarantee that he seek , he will have hear my statement . the contractual term of the grant funding arrangement include that clawback capacity , not just for the overall project but even down to the number of job retain . those be the kind of job guarantee that I want in the public - private relationship go forward . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s commitment to introduce a new steel strategy . steel be not a sunset industry ; it be critical for our economy and national security . I know that he be a friend of Teesside . will he give we some clarity on the status of discussion around investment in steel in Teesside at the moment ? my hon . friend be right to make that point . we can not say enough that this be not a sunset industry ; it should have a bright future . we can get this right . on the negotiation , my hon . friend will know what I have already say about the conversation with British Steel . it be a very challenging issue . we have make it clear that the Government be there to play a part , and we obviously want that to be part of a transition . we have make that as clear as can be . as soon as I have further information , I will update the House . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . as a supporter of industrial strategy , I welcome the idea of a steel strategy in the future , but I will ask a couple of specific question on the detail . first , be it the Government ' s policy that the domestic manufacture of primary steel be a strategic industry that must be protect and guarantee ? what do the Government intend to do about the sourcing , either domestically or through the import of coke coal ? early , he seem to suggest that he would not intervene to support British Steel in Scunthorpe . can he confirm that , if we lose that capacity , we may go five , six or seven year without steel manufacture in this country ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s support for industrial strategy . I have say many time that there should be , as there be in many country , cross - party agreement — perhaps not on the detail , but on the premise and what we be try to achieve . he ask about domestic manufacture and the blast furnace remain open . that be of course my preference , but I need a business partner — a company that be willing to do that . I do not think that it would be reasonable to spend the very considerable sum of money that we have pledge on subsidise short - term loss rather than on the ability to deliver new thing . he also ask about coke coal . obviously , that depend on the long - term future of the blast furnace . that be what they need . in relation to British Steel , I want a transition plan . my comment early be about my frustration that , for I , the ideal deal in a place like Scunthorpe would have be to build the future alongside operate what we currently have . that be available to the last government ; they do not proceed with it . the kind of infrastructure need for the long - term future of operating blast furnace would require carbon capture and storage . it be cancel many time by the previous Government , and be not there . I be heavily constrain in my option , but I be still do everything that I can to get a deal for the workforce , and to ensure that there be a business there that command the support of its customer to transition in the future . I congratulate the Secretary of State on announce the steel strategy after such a short period in office . the industry have be cry out for it for a very long time . the conservative party fail the industry by not produce it . will he say a bit more about what he hope the strategy can achieve for the steel industry throughout the UK , in particular in Motherwell in my constituency ? there be future opportunity , particularly from renewable , some of the steel that will be necessary in the automotive sector , and some of the new technology that be be take up around other european country . there be particular excitement about direct reduce iron . how we deliver the business environment , hopefully with new and exist partner , be absolutely key . I hope that that be what the strategy will deliver . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , which show the priority that the Government be give steel , in direct contrast with the previous Government , who have absolutely no industrial strategy — it be a real cheek of the shadow Minister to suggest otherwise early . will the Secretary of State say a little more about the plan for Llanwern ? its dedicated workforce have be through hard time recently . with support , Llanwern can turn into the fine automotive finishing line in the world . will he commit to develop that and to safeguard the future of the plant ? I say again that have the election not be call , a statement such as this would not have be not possible . it would have pass we by ; that be the situation that we face . my hon . friend rightly talk with pride about her constituent at Llanwern , which be an incredibly important and successful part of the industrial supply chain in the United Kingdom . I will ensure , as part of the transition , that the downstream function , which be so valuable and praise , and which carry such respect in the industry , be protect , and that the transition plan do not disrupt the business model , which be , again , proof of the sector ' s success and of future opportunity . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his statement , and I welcome his endeavour , which I think we all recognise , to create firm foundation for the sector as it move forward . I also recognise his commitment to Harland & Wolff , to which he refer . that be indeed great news , not just for worker but for the construction sector in Northern Ireland . however , the steel industry face the problem of affordable energy , which he mention in his introduction . will he safeguard the long - term sustainability of that and other industry by immediately address the energy price crisis and implement the necessary long - term green energy fix ? I be extremely grateful to the hon . member for his support for what we have announce . have a competitive environment be an absolutely key issue . I be already have extensive conversation with the Chancellor and key Cabinet colleague , include the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , about the way to do that not just in the short term but in the long term , when we will clearly have a significant renewable energy base . there be a lot of exciting option available , include in how we use some of that capacity in area of low consumer demand . I can tell he that that be a key priority for get this right in future . I congratulate my right hon . friend on the deal that he have announce . as a former british trade commissioner to India , I assure he that it be a well deal from a well and more serious Government than the Conservative Government . will he tell the House what direct conversation he have have with Tata about future investment in the UK ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . although I know that the workforce have , at time , be frustrate by Tata ' s plan , I understand why Tata itself be frustrate by the previous Government and how long it take to do the deal . in opposition , I have extensive conversation with Tata to build the kind of relationship that have be necessary to deliver something like this . I meet executive chair Chandra at Davos and then fly to Mumbai , as colleague may remember , to build that relationship . I also see he yesterday , alongside the Prime Minister and the Chancellor , because he be in the United Kingdom . we be continue those conversation and work with all partner to deliver the kind of opportunity that we think will be available in the UK in future . Patrick Finucane Murder with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the death of Patrick Finucane . Patrick Finucane be a human right lawyer . on 12 February 1989 , he be brutally murder in his home in north Belfast by loyalist paramilitary group the Ulster Defence Association , in front of his wife , Geraldine , who be wound , and his three child , one of whom be now the hon . member for Belfast North ( John Finucane ) . from that day onwards , Mrs Finucane and her family have campaign tirelessly in search of answer about the killing of their love one . in 1990 an inquest be open and close on the same day with an open verdict . subsequently , a number of investigation and review be conduct . in 2001 , follow the collapse of power sharing , the UK and Irish Governments agree at Weston Park to establish public inquiry into a number of trouble - relate case , if recommend by an international judge . Judge Peter Cory be appoint to conduct a review of each case , and in 2004 he recommend that the UK Government hold public inquiry into four death : those of Rosemary Nelson , Robert Hamill , Billy Wright and Patrick Finucane . Judge Cory also recommend that the irish Government establish a tribunal of inquiry into the death of former Royal Ulster Constabulary officer Bob Buchanan and Harry Breen . inquiry be promptly establish in all those case , with one exception : the death of Mr Finucane . meanwhile , in 2003 , the third investigation by Sir John Stevens into allege collusion between the security force and loyalist paramilitary have conclude that there have be state collusion in Mr Finucane ' s kill . that investigation be follow by the conviction in 2004 of one of those responsible , Ken Barrett . with criminal proceeding conclude , the then Northern Ireland Secretary , Paul Murphy , make a statement to Parliament set out the Government ' s commitment to establish an inquiry , but despite a number of attempt , the Government be unable to reach agreement with the Finucane family on arrangement for one . in 2011 , the coalition Government decide against an inquiry . instead , a review of what have happen , lead by Sir Desmond de Silva QC , be establish . Sir Desmond conclude that he be leave " in no doubt that agent of the state be involve in carry out serious violation of human right up to and include murder . " the publication of his finding in 2012 lead the then Prime Minister , David Cameron , to make from this Dispatch Box an unprecedented apology to the Finucane family on behalf of the British Government , cite the " shocking level of state collusion " — [ Official Report , 12 December 2012 ; Vol . 555 , c . 296 . ] in this case . in 2019 , the Supreme Court find that all the previous investigation have be insufficient to enable the state to discharge its obligation under article 2 of the european convention on human right . the Court identify a number of deficiency in the state ' s compliance with article 2 . in particular , Sir Desmond ' s review do not have the power to compel the attendance of witness ; those who meet Sir Desmond be not subject to testing as to the accuracy of their evidence ; and a potentially critical witness be excuse from attendance . in November 2020 , the then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland announce that he would not establish a public inquiry at that time , pende the outcome of continue investigation , but that decision be quash by the Northern Ireland High Court in December 2022 . this government take our human right obligation , and our responsibility towards victim and survivor of the trouble , extremely seriously . the plain fact be that , two decade on , the commitment make by the Government to establish an inquiry into the death of Mr Finucane — first in the agreement with the Irish Government , and then to this House — remain unfulfilled . it be for that exceptional reason that I have decide to establish an independent inquiry into the death of Patrick Finucane , under the Inquiries Act 2005 . I have , of course , meet Mrs Finucane and her family — first on 25 July to hear their view , and again yesterday to inform they of my decision . Mrs Finucane ask the Government to set up a public inquiry under the 2005 Act , and , as I have just tell the House , the Government have now agree to do that , in line with the 2019 Supreme Court ruling and the Court of Appeal judgment of July this year . in make this decision , I have , as be require , consider the likely cost and impact on the public finance . it be the Government ' s expectation that the inquiry will , while do everything that be require to discharge the state ' s human right obligation , avoid unnecessary cost , give all the previous review and investigation and the large amount of information and material that be already in the public domain . indeed , in the most recent High Court proceeding , the judge suggest that an inquiry could " build on the significant investigative foundation which be already in place " . as part of my decision - make process , I also consider whether to refer the case to the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery . the commission have power comparable to those provide by the 2005 Act to compel witness and to secure the disclosure of relevant document by state body — power identify by the Supreme Court as be crucial for the Government to discharge their human right obligation . the commission be find , in separate proceeding in February this year , by the High Court to be sufficiently independent and capable of conduct article 2 - compliant investigation , and while I be committed to consider measure to far strengthen the commission , I have every confidence in its ability , under the leadership of Sir Declan Morgan , to find answer for survivor and family . however , give the unique circumstance of the case , and the solemn commitment make by the Government in 2001 and again in 2004 , the only appropriate way forward be to establish a public inquiry . many of we in this House remember the savage brutality of the trouble — a truly terrible time in our history — and we must never forget that most of the death and injury be the responsibility of paramilitary , include the Ulster Defence Association , the Provisional IRA and other . we should also always pay tribute to the work during that time of the armed force , police and security service , the vast majority of whom serve with distinction and honour , and so many of whom sacrifice their life in protect other . it be very hard for any of we to understand fully the trauma of those who lose love one — son and daughter , spouse and partner , father and mother — and what they have be through . there be of course nothing that any of we can do to bring they back or erase the deep pain that be cause , but what we can do be seek transparency to help provide answer to family and work together for a well future for Northern Ireland , which have make so much progress since these terrible event . I hope that the inquiry will finally provide the information that the Finucane family have seek for so long . the Government will seek to appoint a chair of the inquiry and establish its term of reference as soon as possible , and I will update the House far . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and for advance sight of it and his courtesy call this morning . I be particularly grateful to he for bring it forward before recess . I know the deadline that the Court give he be 27 September , so it be important that we have the chance to hear the Government ' s position and ask question before we rise for conference recess . the murder of Patrick Finucane , like so many murder during the trouble , be a dreadful act of violence that must not be forget . the opposition stand by the finding of the 2012 de Silva report that while there be no evidence of an overarch state conspiracy in the case of his murder , there be shocking level of collusion — something for which the then Prime Minister , now Lord Cameron , rightly apologise to the House in that year . I fully appreciate the Secretary of State ' s desire to bring the matter to a close after a very long period , and I know that a full public inquiry will do it , but I wish to ask serious question about the decision to choose a full public inquiry over one of the alternative that he mention . it be clear that the Finucane family , who have suffer so much , be owe a further and deep investigation . that much be make clear by the Supreme Court ' s find in February 2019 , when it note that the de Silva report have not be able to compel witness or take its evidence in public . in other word , it have not be article 2 compliant . however , as the Secretary of State say , this year the Belfast High Court conclude that the ICRIR be capable of conduct an article 2 - compliant investigation and be sufficiently independent to do so . my first question to the Secretary of State be : give that the ICRIR have power to compel witness and take evidence in public , what be it that a full public inquiry will be able to do that the ICRIR can not ? this be important because the ICRIR be already fully staff and active and could begin work quickly , whereas the establishment of a full public inquiry and the building of that team will inevitably take time . give the opportunity for further delay , I ask he to set out for the House what step he be take to ensure that the public inquiry be conduct as quickly as possible . can he give an undertaking to have appoint a chair and agree term of reference before the end of the year , say ? in his statement , he refer to the High Court proceeding , where the judge suggest that an inquiry could " build on the significant investigative foundation which be already in place " . I hope that will mean that we can have term of reference relatively fast . similarly , in the Secretary of State ' s conversation with his right hon . friend the Chancellor , have the Secretary of State set an expectation of time and cost ? we know from previous public inquiry that unless these thing be consider early on , the inquiry can take a long time and cost a great deal . on the issue of the ICRIR itself , I be pleased to hear that the commission have the Secretary of State ' s confidence . we agree that it be show itself to be an excellent and effective body with a highly capable chair . I note that it be also the creation of the previous Government . it be create , as he know , by the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , which his Government have commit to repeal . indeed , the House will appreciate that a large part of that legislation be give over to the creation of the ICRIR . I ask he to reassure we that he have no intention of repeal that part of the Act . return to the public inquiry that have just be announce , there be one other issue on which we should seek clarity today . in his statement , the Secretary of State refer to the " unique circumstance " of the case . it be important that we understand exactly what those unique circumstance be , because it be important that the Government do not unwittingly set a precedent for many more public inquiry . as a veteran of the Cabinet Office , I become acutely aware of a danger that public inquiry could cease to be the exception and become the rule . give that there be think to be thousand of murder from the trouble still unsolved , there be a risk of set a precedent that would make inquiry the rule . there will be those who ask that if there be to be a full public inquiry in one murder case , why not in another , or in many other ? to avoid that happen if this case be , as the Secretary of State say , genuinely unique , the Government have a responsibility to set out why that be . we must not risk turn the system of public inquiry into a more routine process . I be sure that he will feel the same way , and I ask he to make that commitment . I thank he for his statement . I be grateful to the Opposition spokesperson for his opening remark , and I will respond directly to his very legitimate question . what be unique about this case — I apologise for the length of the opening statement but I think it be really important to take the House through the history — be the commitment give on two previous occasion by the Government of our country that there would be a public inquiry . to come to his last question , it set no precedent , but there be exceptional circumstance relate to this case that lead I to take this decision . I will of course , especially as the Finucane family have be wait 35 year , seek to establish the inquiry as quickly as possible . we have to appoint a judge . the judge then have to be consult by myself about the term of reference . the time it take will depend on how the inquiry unfold . I be acutely conscious of cost — the hon . Gentleman ' s point be extremely fair — which be why it seem to I that , give all the material and information that be already out there , what the inquiry can most usefully do be not seek to go over all of that , but interrogate the information , material and witness as necessary . as the Supreme Court make clear , that be what have be miss that lead it to conclude that this be not article 2 compliant . we have a commitment to repeal and replace the legacy Act , and we will begin that process shortly , finally lay to rest the conditional immunity . the hon . Gentleman will have hear what the Government have say about civil case and inquest . on the independent commission , while I shadow this role in Opposition and since take up the office of Secretary of State , I have be very clear that while we want to return to the principle of the Stormont House agreement , there need to be information recovery and there need to be continue investigation . it be true that the agreement envisage two separate body , but those function be combine in the ICRIR . as I have be very frank in say , now that body have be establish and all its staff appoint , I really do not see the point in abolish it only to recreate something that look very much like what we have today . it be a pragmatic decision that I have take . I also make clear in my statement that I be committed to consider further step to strengthen the ICRIR ' s independence and its power as necessary . I hope that provide the hon . gentleman with the reassurance he be look for . on 17 January 1989 , Conservative Minister Douglas Hogg claim in Parliament that solicitor in Northern Ireland be " unduly sympathetic to the cause of the IRA . " — [ Official Report , Standing Committee B , 17 January 1989 ; c . 508 . ] Seamus Mallon MP respond that he have " no doubt that there be lawyer walk the street or drive on the road of the North of Ireland who have become target for assassin ' bullet as a result of the statement that have be make tonight . " — [ Official Report , Standing Committee B , 17 January 1989 ; c . 519 . ] three week later , lawyer Pat Finucane be shoot 14 time and murder in his own house in front of his wife and three child . I commend Geraldine Finucane and the Finucane family , include of course the hon . member for Belfast North ( John Finucane ) , on their tireless campaign to get to this point , and I thank the Secretary of State for finally do the right thing on behalf of the British Government in announce this inquiry . when do he envisage the inquiry begin ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his appreciative word . he allude to a very , very unhappy history in this and many other case . I do take the point make by the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) about all the pain and suffering that all family have experience , but in this particular case , I have decide that this inquiry be the right thing to do . the murder of Patrick Finucane remain a shocking crime even now , 35 year on , and even in the context of so many tragedy that take place during the trouble in Northern Ireland . I be sure that the thought of everyone in the House be with the family of Patrick Finucane , as mine be . they have suffer for so long wait for answer after that terrible day , and I hope that the independent inquiry announce by the Secretary of State will go some way towards bring at least some closure for the family after all these decade . the liberal Democrats welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and his announcement of the independent inquiry , but do he agree that there be a need to acknowledge the wide need for truth and justice in Northern Ireland ? in contrast to the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , I ask he whether he will come to the House with a wide statement on repeal the legacy and reconciliation Act , which of course the Liberal Democrats oppose in the last Parliament , and talk more widely about the role of legacy in Northern Ireland , which of course be so important . can I also ask the Secretary of State to clarify the ability of this inquiry to compel document and witness , and like other , can I ask about the timescale of the inquiry ? I be sure he agree that Patrick Finucane ' s family have wait long enough already . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for welcome the inquiry , and I be very happy to give he and all member of the House an assurance that as we develop our proposal , I be in the process of talk to lot of people about how to give effect to the " repeal and replace " commitment that be in the Gracious Speech . I will , of course , come back to the House with proposal in due course and keep it inform . the honest answer to the question he and other member have put be that I want to get on with this inquiry as soon as possible , but I have certain duty that I have to undertake in order to give effect to it . however , after this long period of time , let we get go with this inquiry as soon as we possibly can . the brutal murder of Pat Finucane in front of his wife and child be mire in collusion before the killing , as it have be in the many long year since . today be about the tenacity of the Finucane family , include my constituency neighbour the hon . member for Belfast North ( John Finucane ) , but it will have resonance for many other victim of the trouble whose need have , for many year , be put behind the need of the victim - maker who want the truth to remain covered up . I be so glad that the truth may now finally out for this family . as the Secretary of State know , many other family have face obstruction from state and non - state actor in their quest for truth and a reconcile future . I be think of family such as those of the victim of Freddie Scappaticci , the family of Sean Brown , and many other . will the Secretary of State commit to the same swiftness and determination in remove the barrier that have be place in front of those family in their quest for truth ? the hon . Member have allude to a number of case . of course , we be await the final report on Operation Kenova , the interim report have be publish early this year . I undertake and make a commitment , as any holder of this office would do , to carefully consider each individual case and reach what I think be a sensible way forward . collectively , there be a huge task for all of we in play our part in enable family to find out answer that they have not yet have . in that context , I welcome the ICRIR ' s announcement on Monday this week that it have have 85 inquiry and have already agree to start look into eight case . that be significant , because there be those who say that no one should go anywhere near the ICRIR because of its origin and parentage , if I may use that phrase . however , have take the decision that the ICRIR will remain in place , it do have power . it have the ability to get information and to question people , and it have say that it want to develop what it call a system of " enhanced inquisitorial proceeding " , which be public hearing . of course , hearing in public be really important to many family , because they want the truth to come out and to be able to ask question , but , crucially , for justice to be see to be do . can I press the Secretary of State far on the issue of other family ? month ago , under the previous Government , those family see a Bill — which I do not support — repress and restrict their ability to have inquest . today , they see a full public inquiry be announce for another family . will the Secretary of State update the House on what personal engagement he will have with those family ? inevitably , they be go to say , " we have get a public inquiry in this case , but we be be ask to wait in the queue for this legacy Bill inquest body . " they will think something be not right about that . I be very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , who be such a distinguished holder of the office I now hold , for raise that point . over the past three week , I have meet a number of those family whose inquest be bring to an end — some because of the 1 May portculli that come down and bring an end to the inquest ; other because the coroner have say , " we don ' t think we can take this any far because of issue to do with confidential material . " I undertake to the House to reach a decision in those case and inform the family as quickly as possible . as I have say before , one of the reason why we make our commitment in relation to the legacy Act be this : what be it about this part of our United Kingdom that mean citizen should be deny the right to bring a civil case — which be what the Act do — and to have an inquest ? that can not be right and proper , which be why this Government have make that commitment . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , and I be sure all colleague give thank that Northern Ireland and its people now live in peace . can the Secretary of State tell we how he think this announcement will help contribute to continued and meaningful reconciliation in Northern Ireland ? for one family , this now provide a process , but I be very conscious that many other family will say , " what about we ? " that be why we need to find the most effective mean to get to the truth , and that be part of the reason , as I have explain , why I decide that we would not get rid of the commission . I have meet Sir Declan Morgan a number of time , and I have confidence in his ability to do his work . we have to find practical mean of provide answer to all of those family , so that they feel their story can be tell and they can get what they have be look for . the point I wish to emphasise again to the House be that this particular case be exceptional for the reason I set out in my statement . one of the thing the Secretary of State do not outline in his statement be that the Supreme Court consider whether it be appropriate not to proceed with a public inquiry , and that the Supreme Court agree , provide that an investigation could satisfy article 2 compliance . he have say today that the ICRIR not only have his trust and confidence , but have the ability to perform such task for other family . so when he rightly say that family across Northern Ireland will ask the question , " what about we ? " , so too do I , because the most exceptional circumstance about this be the exceptionality of treatment . over 1 , 200 family still have neither truth nor justice , and if the plan enact last year continue , they will never get justice . I would ask he , in repudiate the ICRIR and suggest today that it be not an appropriate mechanism for the Finucane family — and I do not besmirch their grief or their quest for truth and justice — but it be appropriate for every other , how can he honestly look victim in the eye and say that there be not a hierarchy ? there should not be a hierarchy , and the right hon . Gentleman and I share reservation with — indeed opposition to — the legacy Act because it do cut off lot of route to justice . in the end , I think family should have the opportunity to avail themselves of inquest and civil case , but the commission be now in existence . the honest answer to his question be that in this particular case , and this do not apply to any of the other , the Government of our country make a commitment twice — once at Weston Park , and secondly by the then Secretary of State — to establish a public inquiry . I think it be right and proper , the Government in the past have make that commitment , that we honour it , and that be the answer I would give he . the state collusion in the murder of a human right lawyer in front of his wife and child be an incredibly serious matter that chill we all , so I very much welcome the decision by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland on a public inquiry into the murder of Pat Finucane . it be a decision to be welcome , and it be a good signal from our new Government that they be meet their commitment and obligation . however , this very welcome announcement must of course be follow by the action that the Secretary of State have rightly outline . will my right hon . friend therefore give further reassurance to this House that all necessary resource will be provide , so that there can be truth and justice in this incredibly important matter ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and constituency neighbour for what he have say . have make this decision , I think all of we would recognise the need to get on with it as swiftly as possible . this be a bad decision today . it will cause anger and far hurt for the many hundred of family who have not have justice for the murder of their love one , include the mass murder of protestant workman at Kingsmill , the blow up of protestant workman at Teebane and the horrendous murder of worshipper at Tullyvallen , among other . I think the Secretary of State have to explain to the House why , after ten of million of pound have be spend on inquiry and review of this case , he still believe it be necessary to acquiesce in the demand of the family by have another inquiry . how do he justify it to those hundred of family that no such resource will be put in place to seek out the truth about the murder of their family member ? give the record of inquiry of this nature be a golden goose for barrister and solicitor in Northern Ireland , how be he go to ensure that the cost be cap ? the right hon . member recount some of the terrible murder , and I have myself meet , as I be sure other have , the only survivor of the Kingsmill massacre and hear at first hand the truly chilling story of what happen on that day . first , considerable resource be now be give to the independent commission , and it be important to recognise that , because it have a huge task on its hand . I hope other will come forward to the commission to avail themselves of what it can offer . secondly , and I have say this to other member in answer their question , in this particular case a commitment be make twice , and I think it be important that we honour it . we also have to recognise in this particular case that the Court hold in 2019 that all of the investigation — I accept what the right hon . Member say about they and their extent , and of course they involve the expenditure of public money — do not meet the requirement of article 2 . face with that , and face with the quashing at the end of 2022 of the decision of a previous Secretary of State not to call an inquiry pende further investigation , it have fall to I to look at this and to decide how we be go to go forward . I have set out my reason as clearly as I can hope to do . will the Secretary of State clarify that he have now end any opportunity for the family and love one who still hold out hope that there would be an inquiry into the death and murder of their love one at the hand of terrorist across Northern Ireland ? be he say that the only opportunity for they be to go to the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery — an organisation that do not have the full support of the community of Northern Ireland and do not have the support of and have be query by many of the family who have lose love one ? can I just seek clarity from the Secretary of State that he be say to those family that their only opportunity for truth , recovery and justice be to go through this organisation , and that he will not engage with they about a further inquiry ? I say to the hon . Gentleman that the independent commission should not be the only opportunity open to they . that be why I have indicate that this Government will restore civil case , and we will restore inquest in the first instance in those case where they have be bring to an end by the legacy Act . I agree with he that it would be quite wrong if one be to say that there be only one route , deny people — the family — the right to inquest and civil case that apply in all other part of the United Kingdom . that be one of the thing about the legacy Act that be so profoundly wrong . it do not say that we be go to establish a new body and people could use that route , but could also use the other two — inquest and civil case — that have be available to they thus far ; it shut those other route down . that be part of the reason why the legacy Act be so widely opposed in Northern Ireland . I must be honest that it will take time , because it will obviously require primary legislation to deal with the bit of the legacy Act that stop the inquest and the civil case , and that will flow from the consultation I be currently undertake . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . we should all put on record our thank to the hon . member for Belfast North ( John Finucane ) , his mother Geraldine and all the Finucane family , who have campaign for so long , as have so many other , for this inquiry . I recognise the difficulty in prescribe what an inquiry should do , the cost of it and the length of time it should take , but can the Secretary of State tell we roughly when we can expect to establish the inquiry in its formal setting ? can he give some kind of outline timetable for how long it will take to hopefully bring about a resolution , after the disgraceful murder of Pat Finucane all those year ago ? as I have already indicate , I will seek to establish the inquiry as quickly as possible . how long it will take be ultimately in the hand of the judge when he or she be appoint . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . as he understand , the Democratic Unionist party stand against the legacy legislation , in the interest of pursue justice for victim . what he say today will give hope to family such as those affect by Kingsmill . I have an Adjournment debate on the Kingsmill massacre in the last session . on 5 January 1976 — 48 year ago — 10 innocent man who just happen to be Protestants be murder with weapon that be link to 40 other serious republican terrorist crime over a 15 - year period . information have indicate that the perpetrator be help by the Garda S í och á n . clearly some of the Garda S í och á n have IRA sympathy . it could be say that by their very position , they be agent of the state of the Republic of Ireland . will the family of those 10 innocent protestant man be grant the same path to justice as the Finucane family ? if no inquiry be grant on Kingsmill , it will be perceive — and indeed will be prove by the Secretary of State himself — that a two - tier system of justice for victim have be clearly enshrine by this Government . how disappointing , how disgusting , and how angry that make I . I be sorry to have disappoint the hon . member . as I indicate , have meet the one survivor of the Kingsmill massacre , I have some appreciation of just what an appalling and brutal event that be , at a time of many appalling and brutal murder . there have be an inquest , which conclude recently . as I recall , it hold the provisional IRA responsible for that murder . I be sure that the family want to proceed far , and one of the option open to they be to go to the independent commission , but at the risk of repeat myself , I need to point out that I come to my conclusion because the Finucane case be exceptional , for the reason that I have try to explain . may I begin by apologise to the Secretary of State and the House for be absent at the beginning of the statement ? Secretary of State , have there ever be a family give more preferential handling by Government than the Finucane family ? they have have a prime ministerial apology , multiple investigation , inquiry and now an uncapped public inquiry , after the family reject previous Government offer of inquiry . be not the tragic takeaway from the statement that the ICRIR be good enough for innocent victim of the IRA , the Ulster Volunteer Force and other , but not good enough for the Finucane family ? why be the Secretary of State perpetuate that odious hierarchy of victim ? I be not , be the answer . I know that the hon . Member be slightly late in come to the Chamber , and from the beginning I set out my thought process . he will have an opportunity to read my statement subsequently . I clearly set out the reason why I reach this decision . it be a fact that when the then Prime Minister David Cameron apologise from this Dispatch Box , it be unprecedented , because he refer to shock collusion in this case . we member of this House should take that extremely seriously , all of we who be committed to uphold our obligation . we be face with two promise to establish public inquiry . I accept what the hon . Member say about that not happen after 2004 because of the then stance of the Finucane family , but that have now change . there be also the Supreme Court decision of 2019 ; it say , I be afraid , that for all that have go before , the state have not comply with its article 2 obligation . we will now do so . Bill Presented Renters ’ Rights Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Angela Rayner , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Shabana Mahmood , Secretary Bridget Phillipson , Secretary Liz Kendall , Secretary Jonathan Reynolds , Secretary Ian Murray and Secretary Jo Stevens , present a Bill to make provision change the law about rented home , include provision abolish fix - term assure tenancy and assure shorthold tenancy ; impose obligation on landlord and other in relation to rent home and temporary and support accommodation ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 8 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 8 - en ) . build Safety and Resilience before we begin the general debate , I remind the House that on Wednesday last week , Mr Speaker renew the waiver relate to matter sub judice in respect of ongoing or adjourn Grenfell Tower inquest and case relate to cladding . this be to allow debate to take place on relevant policy matter , include the phase 2 report of the Grenfell Tower inquiry and the Government ' s response to it . the waiver do not permit discussion of the detail of individual case . I remind hon . member of the likelihood that both civil and criminal proceeding in the court will follow in the come month and year . member will want to take special care to avoid say anything in this House that could prejudice a future trial . I beg to move , that this House have consider build safety and resilience . I rise to open this debate on the critical issue of build safety and resilience , follow last week ' s publication of the Grenfell inquiry ' s final report . Sir Martin Moore - Bick ' s finding on an entirely avoidable national tragedy be devastating , and I begin by remember the 72 people who die , 18 of they child , in the big loss of life in a residential fire since the second world war . I pay tribute to the bereaved , the survivor and the wide Grenfell community , who have wait too long for the answer and justice that they deserve . it be thank to their tireless crusade for truth , accountability and change that we be here today . the final report of the Grenfell Tower inquiry represent a defining moment in the journey for justice . as Sir Martin state : " the simple truth be that the death that occur be all avoidable , and those who live in the tower be badly fail over a number of year and in a number of different way by those who be responsible for ensure the safety of the building and its occupant . " the report shine a light on a terrible culture in the industry in the year lead up to the tragedy — a culture of put profit before people , and a culture in which safety take a back seat . it reveal a building safety system that be fundamentally break , with deficiency that go unchallenged by different government . the consequence of these failure be still with we today ; there be too many building with unsafe cladding and the pace of remediation have be too slow . we will consider all the recommendation in detail , and we will respond within six month . as part of that work , we will listen to and engage with the bereaved , survivor and resident in the immediate community . we will update Parliament annually on progress against every commitment we make . as the Prime Minister say , " there must … be more radical action to stop something like this from ever happen again . " — [ Official Report , 4 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 313 . ] the recent fire in Dagenham show we the danger that many resident continue to face . my east London constituency be among those with the most cladde high - rise block in the country , so I have long campaign for the urgent remediation of affected building , and I know that member across the House grapple with similar issue in their constituency . I have see at first hand how relentless the work can be for resident who be try to get remediation start . our constituent not only have to endure the fear and uncertainty of live with unsafe cladding , but face the high insurance premium and service charge that go with it . the delay be hold people back . they can not make plan or get on with their life . they live in fear . they feel stuck . as Minister for building safety , I be honour to have the opportunity to work alongside the Deputy Prime Minister to make thing right and ensure that last week ' s moment of truth become a legacy of change , so that no other community have to go through that suffering . we will bring the full power of Government to bear on this task . above all , we will accelerate the pace of remediation and go far and fast to drive change across the industry . I thank the Minister for what she just say . on the remedial work that will be do , some will be in the public sector ; most will be in the private sector . in many case , resident be pay the price in very high insurance premium , as she rightly acknowledge . could those resident who have suffer a great deal of stress and cost over the past few year expect some form of compensation for their loss , because of the failure of Government and the industry to undertake the proper remedial work ? we recognise the impact on those with high insurance premium . we will take action to protect they , and will have the necessary dialogue to address the right hon . member ' s point and ensure that there be not high insurance premium . do the Minister agree that firefighter and the Fire Brigades Union need to be listen to , and that the Government need to deliver the statutory advisory body to ensure that the lesson of Grenfell be learn ? we have already have discussion with key stakeholder , include firefighter and the head of the FBU . we want to ensure that we speak to all relevant stakeholder . we need to work across a range of institution to get this right and tackle the root cause of fire risk . I want to focus on the number of affected property . the remediation of 4 , 630 residential building above 11 metre be be monitor by my Department . for half of they , remediation have start ; 1 , 350 have complete remediation . however , count the building that we know about be not enough . we estimate that as many as 7 , 000 building that need remediation have not yet apply for the cladding safety scheme . that be a maximum estimate — there may well be few than that — but those responsible for those building have no excuse for fail to apply . we will work with regulator to ensure that the building be identify . rise — I will make a bit more progress . we will ensure that dangerous building be find and deal with . the money be there . the speed must increase . we be not leave this task just to regulator ; the Government must do more , and this Government will do so . I congratulate the Minister on her appointment . it be absolutely right that the Government should be provide support , include financial support , for those building that need work do urgently . of course , the problem be that the building safety fund have different rule and criterion for building in the social housing sector and those in the private sector . when the Prime Minister speak about Grenfell , he speak about the discrimination and poor treatment of social housing tenant . will the Government rectify that by make social housing provider equally eligible for help from the building safety fund ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on this matter . I serve on the Communities and Local Government Committee under his chairmanship many year ago and learn a great deal from his work . the Government have commit up to £ 400 million in grant funding for the removal of Grenfell - style cladding in the social sector , and social housing landlord can apply for the grant scheme in particular circumstance , but we be work with regulator and the sector to ensure that social landlord assess the progress of remediation work . there be much to do , and I look forward to work closely with he on that and the wide agenda . since 2017 , some progress have be make , include the Building Safety Act 2022 , which Labour support . but what be clear be that the speed of work to fix unsafe cladding be not fast enough . the recent fire in Dagenham and Slough underline the vulnerability that persist in our build environment . since come into office , we have meet regulator and other industry partner to press for action to make building safe . we be contact all metro mayor in England to ask for their support in drive forward local remediation acceleration plan , work in partnership with regulator . I congratulate my hon . friend on her appointment , which , in try to put right these wrong , be to one of the tough job in Government . I wish she all the good . one of the thing that would help be to improve the skill throughput in the construction industry . in my constituency , only one large block have have its cladding completely removed , and that start five year ago — it have take that long to deal with it — so those that have have no work start be way behind . one big brake on that be skill in the construction industry . what be the Government do to improve and enhance skill in that sector ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention on this really important agenda . I will say more about the remediation action plan and our response . the Prime Minister commit to make sure that we respond to the recommendation of phase 2 within six month , and we will certainly be look at those recommendation . the point she make , which be very important , have be raise with I over the past few month . I be also familiar with those concern as I raise they myself when we be in opposition . I turn to enforcement action . our message to building owner be clear : those who fail to make their building safe will face enforcement action . the funding be there : the Government have commit £ 5 . 1 billion to remove dangerous cladding , and industry be provide the rest . all block of residential flat above 11 metre now have access to a scheme to fix unsafe cladding . qualifying leaseholder be protect by law from crippling bill for historical safety defect . as the Prime Minister make clear in his speech in the House last week , we will take the necessary step to speed this up . we be willing to force freeholder to assess their building and enter remediation scheme within set timetable , with a legal requirement to force action if that be what it take to tackle industry intransigence . as I mention , we will set out further step on remediation this autumn . I welcome my hon . friend to her new position ; I know that she will be a firm advocate for those thousand of people who be still wait for remediation to be do on their building . while we need to have partnership with the big housing builder to meet our target of 1 . 5 million , some of those same developer be still drag their foot on do the remediation on home . will she assure resident in my constituency and across the country that part of the deal those developer may be do with other part of her Department will be about take seriously their remediation responsibility for those building ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that important point . a number of developer have already sign agreement on the remediation agenda . the Prime Minister , the Deputy Prime Minister and the whole Government have make the clear commitment to build the 1 . 5 million home . these be two side of the same coin . we have to make sure that building that be not safe be make safe , and that the future home that we build be safe and secure and address the need of our country . she make important point , and we be very much on the same page . there be no excuse for a building owner not to enter a cladding scheme that they be eligible for . any owner who fail to do so will be hold to account . we will not sit by while they fail to act . as well as act now to keep people safe , we be learn the lesson from Grenfell for the long term . we be invest in and support local resilience to deliver strong planning , response and recovery . the Department have provide £ 22 . 5 million in core capacity and capability funding to local resilience forum since 2021 . these be fundamental to our national resilience , and the Department will continue to consider every opportunity for far strengthen they , include by support the Cabinet Office to shape and develop the programme of engagement with local stakeholder through the resilience review . we will ensure robust oversight , strong regulatory framework and an unwavering commitment to accountability at every level . that mean reform the construction product industry that make this fatal cladding . those who compromise that safety will face the consequence . that mean take step to make the necessary improvement . my write statement last week focus on improve the fire safety and evacuation of disabled and vulnerable resident in high - rise residential building in England . in our first week in office , we have resolve an important recommendation from the Grenfell inquiry ' s first report — five long year after it be publish . the Home Office will bring forward proposal this autumn for residential personal emergency evacuation plan — residential peep , as they be know . resident with disability and impairment whose ability to evacuate could be compromise will be entitle to a person - centre risk assessment . this will identify appropriate equipment and adjustment , support their fire safety or evacuation , as well as a residential PEEP statement that record what they should do in the event of a fire . we be get that important work go by fund social housing provider to deliver residential peep for their renter . the Government will engage with representative group as these plan be develop . the Home Office plan to lay regulation as soon as possible , with a view to the proposal come into force in 2025 - 26 . in addition , we have make progress on deliver sounder — evacuation alert system for new building — to reduce the likelihood and impact of future fire , as recommend in phase 1 of the Grenfell inquiry report . we will consider recommendation from phase 2 regard construction product shortly , as I mention . as the House be aware , we have also announce the withdrawal of the outdated national class for fire testing standard in favour of the more robust european standard , and we will update approve document b to make provision for sprinkler in new care home . last week , we also announce a furth £ 2 million in grant funding to reopen the wake watch replacement fund , and to support more resident in building with fire safety defect to put in place common alarm system . to help they keep resident safe . the Minister have talk about support for high - rise building in my constituency . my local authority have remove cladding from several council block , include one I grow up in , which be of four storey or few . what support will the Government be able to give low - rise block , and what check will they do ? the evidence show that the risk tend to be in the high rise , and that have be the focus , but there be arrangement to ensure that low - rise building with safety issue be address . we need to look at these issue in the round . it be important that we do not miss anything , but in the Department ' s work so far , the big risk have be in the high rise . I take the hon . member ' s point , and where there be issue with low - rise building , we be very much willing to look at how we provide support . my hon . friend be be generous in give way to member across the House . as she say early in her remark and just touch on again , sometimes recalcitrant developer be really reluctant to pay and do not engage with resident . there be a danger that those resident will be leave at the bottom of the heap as they compete for skill , product and so on . I be sure she be mindful of that , but be she able to give those resident any comfort about the pressure the Government can put on those recalcitrant developer , to help get on with the work and make they pay later ? have deal with such case in my own constituency , I be very aware of the challenge . the Prime Minister make it clear that if further action be need we will take it , but we will use the exist law and the power we have to take action now . I assure my hon . friend that official be work closely with member of Parliament to support they and their constituent , to ensure that action be take . I hope that I can meet colleague regularly to support they , with official , to ensure that those who be intransigent do the work that they be require to do . we will take action , and we will work with member to ensure they get the support they need . in response to the recent fire in Slough and Dagenham , the Government be support local team to assist those affect . firefighter also attend a fire in my own borough — a high - rise building in Blackwall . I be very grateful to emergency worker for their bravery and quick response to those and other incident . follow the fire in Dagenham , at a roundtable of regulator and partner the Deputy Prime Minister make clear that fix unsafe building must happen fast . member across the House will share our resolve in want the finding of the Grenfell inquiry to be a catalyst for change . I want to assure the House that we will hold a further debate on the Grenfell inquiry report in the autumn , which I know many member will want to contribute to . it will be an opportunity for they to share their insight , to discuss the specific recommendation that have be make and to work with we to bring about the change that be urgently need . in the meantime , we will support the Metropolitan police and the Crown Prosecution Service as they complete their investigation and bring prosecution . this be about deliver justice and accountability , but it be also about treat everyone , regardless of where they live , with respect . in that spirit , we be listen to those affect . we be engage with resident , local authority , housing association and other in the fire safety community to ensure that our policy and action reflect the concern of those affect . we be set an expectation of industry to ensure that resident be listen to , protect and have peace of mind that action to make their home safe be a matter of priority and take seriously . look to the future , we will ensure that the security , health and wellbeing of resident and their wide community will drive our mission to build 1 . 5 million new home over this Parliament . we will never forget the Grenfell Tower tragedy on that night in June 2017 . over the past seven year , the bereaved , survivor and the immediate Grenfell community have campaign relentlessly to protect their fellow citizen , despite their personal loss and pain . as the Prime Minister say , in the memory of Grenfell we will change our country and we will bring the full power of Government to bear on this task , because that be the responsibility of service and the duty we owe to the memory of every single one of the 72 life lose . I call the shadow Minister . I would like to open by share the commitment of his Majesty ' s official Opposition to support the Government in ensure that , in particular , the legislation bring forward in the previous Parliament , broadly with cross - party support , to address the issue that the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) and colleague have outline follow the Grenfell fire , take full effect through regulation and implementation across the sector . it be absolutely clear , as be state by the Leader of the Opposition during the Prime Minister ' s statement last week , that we share the Government ' s determination to ensure that everybody in our country be able to feel safe in their home , and that risk , whether they be know or might emerge from the continue research into this field , be properly address . we will do our very good to work with she and colleague in a constructive manner to ensure that that happen . today ' s debate be also an opportunity to consider many of the broad issue around build safety that will come into play as we consider the Government ' s plan to reform our planning system , increase our housing supply , bring in new form of build into the United Kingdom and reform building regulation . a great deal of the report from Sir Martin into the Grenfell incident focus on the role play by build regulation and their operation in the market for material and design in the terrible disaster that take the life of 72 people . however , we should not waste an opportunity to consider more broadly how other part of our housing system and our planning system can ensure that risk that might emerge in the future be deal with effectively . for example , we be aware when a planning application come forward that the safety and resilience of a building be not simply down to its construction and material ; it be also affect by its location , its proximity to other source of risk and its design from its very inception . they all have a part to play . we know from point that have be make in the past by member from across the House about the role that housing play in the context of public health that , in the capital , for example , air quality be often bad indoor than it be outdoors as a result of building design with poor ventilation and poor mechanical system . that create a long - term health and safety burden for resident which can be alleviate by give due consideration to well design and resilience at the initial stage . I encourage the Government to consider , as they embark on this process , how to manage some of the very complex interaction when seek to improve the safety of building where there be freeholder , leaseholder and tenant all occupy some of the same space . I be aware , from experience in a local authority , that Hillingdon council have to go to court on 16 occasion to gain access to council property to undertake basic maintenance and servicing work to installation against the will of the occupier , even though that work be be carry out at no cost to the tenant . that demonstrate some of the practical difficulty that that complex relationship can create in ensure that local authority and other be able to fulfil the duty that this House and the legislation place upon they . it be also clear , from both the Grenfell report and other research , that the drive towards building efficiency , in particular energy efficiency , have create a risk of a loss of focus on safety . we know that this have be part of a global move to recognise the need to address climate change through well quality insulation and the more efficient construction of building . increasingly , we see building be bring forward with modular construction of different type . hotel arrive in a shipping crate : pre - construct room be simply stack up and then give a brick skin . Frame - construct home be a significant part of the delivery of the housing market . these provide an opportunity to make the available fund go far and create more home more quickly . that be extremely welcome , but we need to ensure that the risk that might be associate with some of those form of construction , especially where they take place at scale , be properly consider . I would like to hear a little more from the Government in due course about how the broad context of build safety and resilience will take those matter into account . would the shadow Minister like to reflect on the fact that around four year ago the previous Government set up a committee to look at modern method of construction , but the last investigation show that it have not actually meet ? it be important that we get this right . we can see the problem with timber - frame home and all the difficulty they cause in the 1980 . it be important we get the technique and construction right , but there be a bit of a gap in the previous Government ' s approach , be there not ? of course , it be embarrassing to hear that . again , from experience of local government , I know that a great deal of work have be put in to ensure that modern method of construction be put forward for Government consideration . often there be exemplar around the country of how new estate and new home have be deliver . there be certainly no lack of evidence on the opportunity available . we also have an opportunity to reflect on the many challenge in our current housing stock , and in other type of building such as school and hospital . once upon a time , aerate concrete and asbestos be regard as wonder material , and house builder and government would have be consider inefficient if they have not ensure their use . we now know that they have create problem and risk that require significant level of expenditure to remediate . that bring I to another important point : building resilience be not just about home . the BBC recently do an excellent piece of work commemorate the original Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 , which be implement by Government follow a number of quite appalling incident , mainly in factory , where significant loss of life occur because the design of building mean that , in the event of a fire , for example , it be difficult or impossible for people to get away . we know that school building have be destroy and that thus far not a single school have be fit with sprinkler where fire have result in total loss of the building . the cost of instal that equipment at the design and construction stage be relatively modest compare with the impact of retrofit it , so there be an opportunity for the Government to reflect on how , as we take forward their strategy on investment in new school , we ensure that that resilience be , as far as possible , build in and that the full cost to the taxpayer that occur when a hospital or a school be lose be consider . we must reflect also on how we ensure that office building and factory under construction meet the high possible standard , especially as they often face many of the same challenge around new material and new form of design that be intend to make they more efficient but potentially bring in risk that it be our duty to foresee and prevent as far as we possibly can . we will shortly consider the Renters ’ Rights Bill . that will have a wide impact , especially on the build - to - rent sector . we have see new form of developer come into the market with the specific intention of construct , from the outset , long - term rental home . I welcome the shadow Minister ' s comment about work cross - party . one thing we need to do be establish the fact , the reality of what be go on , and the confusion leave by the previous Government . People be be tell by mortgage provider that they need an EWS1 form , but by freeholder that they do not . they be stuck , go back and forth for year . would he like to take this opportunity to recognise the confusing legacy leave by his government and apologise to all the thousand of people who be stick in place feel that they have no place to go ? give the broad cross - party consensus in the last Parliament about the importance of the new form of legislation and the regulation that follow from it , I think we should seek to maintain that consensus as far as possible , but as somebody who in a previous life work in banking and as a mortgage adviser , I know that the challenge around the mortgageability of property , especially property of novel construction , go back many decade . for instance , a very limited number of lender will provide for property locate above shop , because of that particular set of risk . EWS1 be a similar example ; despite apparent clarity from Government , there clearly be a lot of debate within the sector and some lender prefer to go belt and brace , demand the provision of something that be not require by law or regulation before make a lending decision — and the then Government do significant work in the previous Parliament to bring clarity and address those problem . that be a helpful introduction to a point that I want to touch on briefly : the role of the insurance industry , both in the challenge that will follow from Grenfell and in the wide experience of our constituent . many people find themselves significantly challenge because , owe to a lack of clarity or to uncertainty about the construction of their building , they face significant insurance cost , sometimes to the point where only one insurance provider be available . other face very significantly increase cost because of the behaviour of a landlord who seek to apportion the insurance cost across all the property in their portfolio , rather than accord to the risk of a specific property that a particular tenant or leaseholder inhabit . it would be helpful for the Government to give some consideration to how they can work with the insurance industry to ensure that those who be pay for insurance be pay a fair price and that it provide the necessary cover that mortgage lender , for example , will expect . it be clear that , as well as the strong commitment we on the Opposition Benches can give to support the Government and the Minister in take forward the regulation and ensure that they address the concern that have be express , we must also make the most of an opportunity to consider wide issue of building safety . in London , for example , there be significant number of Bison block , construct with pre - stress concrete — at the time , it be consider a wonder material and a mean of deliver significant number of new home efficiently and at a low cost — which have particular structural risk around they that local authority across the capital and the wide country have have to address . we have also hear a little bit about the role of the fire service in carry out inspection and prosecution where property be find not to meet the fire regulation . all those point be indicator of risk across the system , and there be an opportunity for Government to ensure that Ministers have a clear line of sight so that such indicator can be effectively address . if there be a role for we politician to play in local government and here in Westminster , it be to ensure that all these other people be do their job . I promise that the opposition will support the government as they seek to achieve that , and I hope that together we will be able to take this work forward effectively , so that all our constituent can sleep safely in their bed . I welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) , to her position . as my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) say in an intervention a few moment ago , it be probably one of the most challenging and difficult job in Government . we all see the struggle face by Conservative Ministers who have to deal with these issue over many year ; indeed , we be still struggle because we have not get to the position that we would all like to be in . I want to comment on the many report produce by the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee in the last Parliament and the one before , when I be privileged to chair the Committee . we produce two report after Grenfell , follow Dame Judith Hackitt ' s initial report on the issue to the Government . we also do pre - legislative scrutiny of the Building Safety Bill , follow up with a report , do quite a lot of work on thing like construction product , and have correspondence with Ministers on those subject . every one of our report be agree unanimously by that cross - party Committee , and I be pleased that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , have indicate the Opposition ' s support for the general approach to these matter ; we all want to see building safety carry out on all the building in our constituency in a timely and proper manner . as I be look back at Dame Judith ' s report and decide what I should say today , as well as pick out one or two bit of the Select Committee ' s work , something strike I . she say that it be about not just build rule and regulation but culture . the Grenfell report clearly set out that there need to be an overall comprehensive review to avoid the gap in regulation . that be absolutely right , and the Government will no doubt follow that through and report on what they be go to do , but Dame Judith say that there be a " race to the bottom " culture in the building industry — that it be about how cheaply could thing be do . that be show in Grenfell , as there be example of cheap product be substitute for other . in the end , the safety of individual be put behind financial return . unfortunately , that be far too common in the construction industry . the Minister may even struggle more with that fundamental reform to attitude and culture than she do with the review of building regulation , which will be a struggle enough itself . that have to be bear in mind right the way through . nevertheless , we look forward to the Government ' s response to all the recommendation of Sir Martin Moore - Bick and his inquiry . the Minister say in a write answer to I the other day that about 4 , 000 home still have dangerous cladding on they . after all this time , that really be quite shocking . I wonder whether the Minister might consider update that figure regularly — maybe place it in the Library every three month — so we can all look at whether progress have be make quickly enough . she might even like to provide a list of all the building , their owner and their developer so we can start to see who the guilty party be . some have legitimate reason for not have make change yet , which we want to know , but other simply be not interested in get on with the work that be their responsibility . there be some other problem and challenge that the Minister might also like to address . my attention be draw to a particular block that could access the building safety fund for the removal of cladding , but not for other safety work that need to be do , include replace miss firewall and dangerous fire door . that be okay when developer be involve , who should be push to put right their wrong of their construction , but in this case , the developer have go bust and the building be own by its leaseholder . where do they go in that situation ? well , actually , the building work just stop . we end up with a building safety fund that be not comprehensive — the Select Committee recommend it cover all aspect of build safety work — and cover just clad , and because other element of building safety be not cover by the fund , there be situation where building be leave unsafe and there be no one really to point the finger at and say , " they ' re responsible . " the Minister probably can not give I an answer to that point today , but I hope she will think about it . if we can start to identify precisely where these building be , many more such situation may emerge . where there be recalcitrant developer and owner , how can the leaseholder get help ? as have be mention , they be often face with high insurance cost and enormous worry about what happen next in their life . the Select Committee talk to people who be in despair , and that be a few year ago ; they be probably still in despair now because nothing have change in their situation . on top of that , they can be face with legal cost to challenge the developer and owner . can the Minister give we some assurance that her Department and official will stand ready to offer all assistance possible to leaseholder in that situation , who be really struggle and desperate in many circumstance ? the Leasehold Knowledge Partnership have do good work in provide assistance , but the technical and legal advice should really be come from her Department . I want to mention one or two other key issue , although if I try to go through all the building safety issue that come up in the Select Committee , I would be here for a lot long than today ' s debate . skill have be mention . when the Committee look at the Building Safety Bill , we recommend a national system of third - party accreditation and registration for all professional work on the design and construction of high - rise building . that do not include all the people who work on building , such as labourer and those with other skill , but all those involve with professional skill — whether it be architect , those oversee construction work or build safety manager — should be properly accredit , and there ought to be a national system . it be clear that there be gap in that regard . as for those who work in the trade involve , it be a disgrace that under build electrical safety regulation , it be still the case that the only rule relate to " competent person " . in a high - rise building , an electrician who do work in a kitchen where there be water , or in the garden where there be water , will not be cover by any building safety regulation . an electrician who do work in the bathroom will be cover , but will have to be part of a competent person scheme — which do not mean that the person do the work must be competent ; it simply mean that the company must be register as have someone who be competent to sign off the work at the end of the day , even if the person never see the work that have be do . the Committee report on that several time back in 2015 and never get any far with it , so it need to be look at . construction product be clearly a problem at Grenfell , and I welcome the comment about that in the Grenfell report . we call over and over again for a comprehensive review of the testing of product and their safety . we call for the publication of information not only about the product that have be test and find to be safe , but about those that have fail . what Dame Judith Hackitt find initially in her review be that company be go from one testing house to another with their product until they find one that pass they . no one be ever notify of the failure , and that can not be right . Sir Martin Moore - Bick have call for more transparency over product testing , so can we ensure that failure be report , as well as success ? in all the cost of Grenfell , while developer be be hold to account to some degree , not one construction product manufacturer have be ask to pay a single penny towards the cost of build remediation , although many of they be clearly responsible for some of the problem . why be that ? we push the then Government about it . we last write to the relevant Minister in March last year . the Government commission a report by Paul Morrell on construction product and safety , but never respond to it in detail . will this Minister now look at it and give a response ? will she look at the testing and categorisation of product , and at how manufacturer can be make to pay some of the cost that should not fall on leaseholder or on social housing provider ? I be pleased by the recommendation in the Grenfell report that build control officer should always be appoint by an independent third party . the developer should not be choose — in some case — their own friend to sign off a building . in the case of the high - rise building , the building safety regulator be now responsible for appoint build control officer . let I compliment the hon . gentleman on all his work on this . do he agree that one of the problem be the systemic underfunding of local authority — lead to the inadequacy of all their inspection regime , build control in particular — which have have such a devastating effect on the quality of building in so many part of the country ? yes , I do . the Committee have make many recommendation in many report about the whole issue of local authority funding and the squeezing of resource in respect of service of this kind , give the priority that authority have to give to social care in all its form and , now , temporary accommodation . as well as the question of resource , however , there be the question of independence . the building control officer will be beholden to the developer , whoever the developer be , because the developer will say , " if you give I a difficult time on this building , I will not give you any work for the next one . " that must be stop . the last Government would say that they do so in respect of the high - rise building , but it need to be stop for all building , and I be pleased about what Sir Martin say about that in his report . let I now return to the issue of social housing . I be sorry , but I must tell the Minister that I be not go to let it go away . both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister make comment about the discrimination against and bad treatment of social housing tenant . for a long time we have have the attitude that this be poor housing for poor people who do not really matter . we must challenge that , because they do matter . landlord in the social housing sector , housing association and council , will always do their good to make building safe , and in some case — because there be no access to the building safety fund unless they can show that they can not do the work , and they can always find some money to do it — that will mean squeeze the headroom in the housing revenue account or housing association ' business plan . that squeeze headroom would otherwise be available for the building of new home . if the Government want to build 1 . 5 million new home — and I fully support that ; I think it be one of the good commitment that they be make — they will not be build by the private sector alone . a substantial number of social house will have to be build , and that require HRA resource and resource in the housing association ' business plan . the more we squeeze they with other responsibility that be not finance by the building safety fund , the less money will be available to build new social housing . I thank my hon . friend for raise that point about the impact on the HRA . we have two such building where the council have to deal with compartmentation with no support from the Government , and have to rehouse 300 family in just under a year , per good practice . do my hon . friend agree that the pressure on council have be much great than it have be on private developer to move quickly on remediation and removal ? order . I must remind member that contribution be make through the Chair , so it be important to make eye contact with the Chair rather than with the Minister on the Front Bench . I be sure you appreciate , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I always want to make eye contact with you . [ laughter . ] I probably will not be call again for a long time after that . of course I agree with my hon . friend that while social landlord in particular should take their responsibility seriously , and I think that most of they do , many be struggle . my final ask of the Minister be this . give the urgency of the issue , will she agree to meet I — together with Kate Henderson , the chief executive of the National Housing Federation , and the representative of the local council who recently produce an excellent report about funding for council house building — to discuss this issue and the extra challenge that it pose to both housing association and council at what be a difficult time ? let I end by thank all my colleague who be involve in the Select Committee in the previous two Parliaments . its new Chair be to be elect today , and I offer to help and support whoever it be in any way I can , because I be sure that this issue be one that the new Committee will want to address . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . let I begin by congratulate the Minister and welcome she to her position . as we have already say in this Chamber , the liberal Democrats welcome the final Grenfell report . we want to record again our thank to the family of the victim , and , of course , the survivor , for give their testimony , their expert and their statement to the inquiry ; we know how difficult that will have be . much have already be say today about the issue of cladding , so I will not say anything about it in my speech . as other member have point out , this be not just about the remediation of cladding ; there be many other fire safety issue in building that need to be remedie . this be a debate about building safety , and we must discuss other matter . there be various fire safety issue in various building in my constituency , particularly — I be sure that other member will have correspondence about this in their inboxe — the need for fire door remediation . either the fire door be inadequate when they be instal in the first place , or they be instal incorrectly . that need to be fix , but the developer , the building owner and , through they , their management company be not take responsibility for it . indeed , they be try to pass the buck and make the leaseholder and the tenant pay for the replacement of the door where that be necessary , and use defect period that may well have expire as an excuse for not take up those issue and not pay for remediation . in one instance , one of the leaseholder commission a survey before the expiration of the defect period , which identify problem with the fire door , but the developer be still claim not to be responsible for replace all the fire door in the building , although they be of identical design , and the developer have accept responsibility for these particular door . this be an example of where the construction industry be , unfortunately , not take responsibility for the issue that it have create , whether intentionally or unintentionally . there be other fire safety issue , which we will all have see in our inboxe . some of they will be thing that we in the construction industry — I have work in it for many year — describe as patent defect , which can be see . when someone come across a patent defect , they can see that something do not work , but there be many latent defect , which be hide in the depth of a building and can not be see by the naked eye . those defect become apparent much later , and we need to provide a way to help leaseholder by ensure that they do not have to shoulder the financial burden of rectify they . such defect be fundamental to the building — for example , there be safety issue around gas pipe that have be incorrectly instal . in some case , it have be find that there be inadequate shielding around the pipe , as happen in a building in my Chelmsford constituency . I could go on and on about other fire safety issue , but I know that other hon . member want to speak and I have quite a few thing that I would still like to say . there be a huge backlog of issue that need to be remedie , and the Minister talk about the number of building that need to be remediate . I speak to a fire safety expert from a local authority — not one in my constituency — who be responsible for look at all the building in the authority ' s housing stock . they have to put together a report that have to be submit by the deadline , which I believe be early this year . when they try to submit it to the Health and Safety Executive , the HSE say , " whoa , hang on ! Don ' t submit it now — we can ' t cope . we ' ll let you know when we want to receive those document . it may well not be until 2029 . " so I would say that the number of building the Minister talk about be definitely an underestimate , and I urge she to discuss this issue with the Health and Safety Executive to see what other resource it might need to be able to move more quickly . let we remember that people be live in building that they have officially be tell be not safe . every single night , they go to bed know that their family and child be sleep in building that be not safe . we do not know the full extent of the problem , and there be many recommendation that can come out . we can talk about how the construction industry operate and so on , but let I talk briefly about the planning system . when we be talk about fire safety , it strike I as very strange that the fire service be still not statutory consultees on planning application for high - rise building over 18 metre . of course the fire service be expert in fire safety , yet we do not make they statutory consultee . that feel very strange to I , and it feel like a big oversight . I urge the Minister to look into that . member have talk about historical issue and the need to remedy they . I point out to the Minister and everyone present that these issue be not just historical . I be aware of building less than two year old that have fire compartmentation problem and miss firestopping . this be an ongoing issue . as one fire safety expert put it to I , " after everything that happen with Grenfell , developer be still get away with it . " this be a systemic problem , and there be many reason for it . it be partly drive by finance and other thing , but as the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) say , it be also a cultural problem . there be a lot that we need to work on . I will briefly admit to a slightly guilty pleasure : I quite like watch the programme " Air Crash Investigation " , which might seem a bit macabre . I do not want to give the impression that the airline industry be perfect , but I big up those in the airline industry . the industry investigate issue and crash , work out what go wrong , and then do not point the finger of blame , no matter where the fault lie . it look at how such issue could have be avoid , and how it can make sure that they do not happen again in the future . if only we could make the construction industry do the same and change the culture , rather than shrug our shoulder , say , " well , it ' s not my fault , " and blame the subcontractor , the manufacturer or whoever . have work in the construction industry for a long time , I know that that happen a lot . if we could change the culture to be more like how the airline industry investigate problem , I would be very happy to see that . there be another industry that the construction industry could learn something from . I have just mention fire safety issue and thing that need to be remediate , and I be sure that many people in the Chamber have be issue with safety recall notice , whereby motor manufacturer have to recall car and fix the safety issue . if there be a problem with the brake , or anything in the engine be a safety issue , they recall the car and fix it at their expense . I would like to see something similar happen in the construction industry , so that people take much more responsibility . I come back to leaseholder , because it be incredibly important that we remember the implication for they when there be delay and thing be not fix . not only be there a fire risk — as I mention before , we have people who be on 24 - hour watch . other Members have mention the difficulty with get mortgage . at the moment , many leaseholder can not sell their property and move on . that have implication for the housing crisis , because it mean that there be less churn in the housing industry , as few people be able to move out of their flat and allow other people to move into they . that be exacerbate the crisis . as other have mention , there be also the problem of insurance . like other hon . member , I be concerned that social landlord be not eligible for Government fund to remediate building , leave many of the most vulnerable people at risk . I urge the Government and the Minister to listen to the National Housing Federation , which represent hundred of housing association , and the end our Cladding Scandal campaign on these issue . I remind the House that the liberal Democrats have be call for the removal of dangerous cladding from all building , and we need to make sure that leaseholder do not have to pay for it . to reiterate what I say early , this should not be just about clad . there be other serious issue , particularly firestoppe . fire door be incredibly important . as my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) say to the Prime Minister just last week , we need the Government to step in and provide the cash up front to carry out the remediation in some circumstance , and then they should go after those responsible . that would alleviate a lot of suffering . finally , I would just like to say that fire safety be not a luxury . it should be see as a right . I would like to put on the record the thank of my constituent in Kensington and bayswater , which include the wide Grenfell community , for the cross - party support last week when the phase 2 report of the Grenfell inquiry be publish . we thank the Minister and the Government for make time today and for commit to future time , and we thank the Prime Minister for his statement and heartfelt apology on behalf of the british state for what happen . he speak for we all , include the Leader of the Opposition . the Grenfell legacy obviously have lot of dimension , but one of they be build safety . I urge member to remember the 72 victim of the fire , whose legacy have to be fix this crisis . after the report be release , there be three immediate action that the community want I to advocate in this place . the first be about criminal prosecution , which be not a matter for discussion today . however , as the Justice Secretary mention in question yesterday , it be important that we ensure that the court system be prepare for any potential decision that come through the Metropolitan police and CPS process , and that court backlog and the complexity of any potential trial do not result in even further delay to justice . secondly , the accountability of the company be not just about criminal investigation ; it be about their role in public procurement and pay for remedial work . we need to continue to push on that . finally , we be discuss policy change today to ensure that this never happen again , but the pace of change have be far too slow . as my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) say , that be partly due to the culture of how tenant — social housing tenant , in particular — be treat and about their agency and power and respect . there be ten of thousand of people up and down the country who be still go to bed in building that be unsafe . in my constituency — quite incredibly , give the history of Grenfell — we have one of those building that be not yet on the Department ' s list . it undergo a fire inspection just a few month ago and flammable rendering be find . this be a good example of what many member have mention . it be a building with approximately 50 % social tenant and 50 % share ownership leaseholder , who have scrape together the money to get on the housing ladder and have now be hit with a £ 400 a month increase in their service charge , primarily drive by the dramatic increase in insurance after the fire inspection take place . I agree with the shadow Minister ' s call to look at the insurance market , because in that case there be not a competitive bid for insure the building . I know there have be a discussion with the Association of British Insurers to see how we can bring down the cost , but I urge the Government to look at this , because in the short term , while we wait for the remedial work to take place , the situation be simply unaffordable for those leaseholder . I certainly think we need to look at the insurance industry . in addition , that building be another example of the merry - go - round of buck pass that we talk about last week between local government , national Government , developer , freeholder and housing association . we need clear timeline to speed this up , and I really welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment on that . we need incentive in the system — carrot and stick — to ensure that we do not have these never - end situation where leaseholder and tenant be unclear about when the work will be do . as the Minister say , the money be there , so this be about knock head together and make sure that , at an individual building level , we get the speeding up that we need . I will write to she about the specific building that I have mention . speed up this work be obviously part of the answer , but the recommendation from phase 1 and phase 2 of the Grenfell inquiry be also relevant . they go beyond cladding , as the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) mention . I really welcome the Government ' s announcement last week that residential personalise emergency evacuation plan for disabled people will be take forward . it be a big frustration for many of my constituent that that do not happen under the previous Government . we look forward to more detail on what those peep will look like . I urge the Government in the comprehensive spending review to look at funding , for multiple year , for social landlord to implement that and at a scheme to ensure that developer and freeholder cover the cost for private building . we be all still digest the full phase 2 report , and there will be time to go into it in more detail , but one recommendation that I urge the Government to think about straightaway be the streamlining of accountability in term of ministerial responsibility and the regulator , so that we do not have a disperse system between multiple department that make it easy for thing to fall through the crack , as Sir Martin Moore - Bick make clear in his report . I hope we will have time to discuss that in detail . finally , on the question of who should pay , I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement that he will be write to the company and look at exclusion in the public procurement process to ensure that company reference in the Grenfell report will not be able to access public tender . I also put on the record my thank to the golfer Shane Lowry , who yesterday — belatedly , but he get there in the end — remove the sponsorship of one of the company mention . I will not mention it by name , just out of caution . more broadly , these developer clearly need to need to pay for the remedial work . the campaigner have do an incredible job , as the Minister say in her opening remark . their ask have always be for truth , which we now have from the inquiry ; for justice , which we hope will come from the criminal prosecution system ; and for change , which it be on all of we in this House to deliver . I call Peter Fortune to make his maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have learn from the potential misstep of the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , and I promise to gaze at you throughout my entire speech . a maiden speech be , by tradition and design , quite light - hearted , and that be how I have fashion mine , but I want the House to be in no doubt that this debate be on a very serious issue . I welcome the cross - party conversation about the disaster at Grenfell , and I know that my constituent in Bromley and Biggin Hill send their thought and prayer to the victim and survivor and their family , and to other who have be impact . it be obvious that I represent the fine constituency in all of this great United Kingdom . before I set out my case , let I say a few word about my main predecessor — note , of course , those community we welcome from the constituency of both Beckenham and Orpington . the majority of my new constituency , however , be inherit from Bromley and Chislehurst and Sir Bob Neill KC . Sir Bob be and be a creature of this House , a magnificent speaker , a bon viveur and a good friend to many in this Chamber . Bob dedicate his adult life to service . he start as a councillor before move to the Greater London Council . the GLC , of course , meet its demise in 1986 . Bob , unperturbed , simply hang around until it be reinvent in 2000 , when he become the first assembly member for Bexley and Bromley . in 2006 , on the passing of the much - love awkward squad Member Eric Forth , Bob fight a difficult by - election to become the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst . for nearly a quarter of a century , Bob have be part of the fabric of our community , always ready to fight for those who need a voice . Bob have a deep admiration and love for the law . he have hold many position in politic , but I believe that it be as Chairman of the Justice Committee that he reach his pinnacle . his knowledge and depth of understanding have be of unquestionable benefit to the House , but his love of the law be trump by a love that be much deep . it be not West Ham . it be not opera . it be not even Gibraltar , to which I know he have give so much time . his great love be for Ann - Louise , the woman , the wife and the friend who have make he so happy . member will know that fate take a particularly callous decision early on in their relationship , but they will also know that Bob and Ann - Louise face that challenge with their typical resilience and humour . I thank he for his service , and for the graciousness and kindness with which he have always treat I , and I wish his family well . before I move on to make the self - evident case that Bromley and Biggin Hill be the great constituency that have ever exist , I want to make a note of another previous Member for Bromley : the former Prime Minister Harold Macmillan . as Minister for housing , he take on the responsibility of meet new and ambitious housing target . he be not keen at first , write in his diary in 1951 that it be " not my cup of tea at all " . despite his concern , he meet the inflated target a year early , and change the life of family right across the country by present they with the opportunity to live in a safe and secure home . I wonder how he would feel — this link to the substance of the debate — if he know that resident of North Point in Bromley be still suffer due to a cladding crisis that be no fault of their own . this be an injustice that have go on for too long , and it be vital that the whole House work together to free those who be impact from the shackle of poor governance and lack of accountability . before I talk far about the constituency , I would like to say thank you to the good people I know . I can not linger here for too long or I shall be reduce to an emotional puddle , but I must recognise my beautiful family , without whom I be nothing . my extraordinary child make I so proud , and I be bless with the most beautiful , talented , funny and patient wife in Anna - Marie . she be the most wonderful and kindest person I have ever meet ; I will never be good enough for she , but I will keep try . to business . Bromley and Biggin Hill be a long , thin and elegant constituency , which be why it come as no surprise that its constituent choose I , an uncanny physical manifestation of the place . it be a wonderful place , comprise Sundridge , Bickley , Hayes and Keston , the bit of Darwin that be in the family , along with Coney Hall , Bromley common , Biggin Hill and of course the ancient market town of Bromley . rather than give a geographical tour , I will demonstrate the amazing contribution from across Bromley and Biggin Hill to the field of literature , sport , science and politic , and set out how we save the world . I will start with literature . if reader have enjoy exciting story of time travel or invisible man ; or secretly encourage William , the unruly schoolboy ; or empathise with the buddha of suburbia , they have be enjoy a writer from Bromley and Biggin Hill . h . g . Wells , Richmal Crompton and Hanif Kureishi be all connect to the constituency . Enid Blyton be one of the first teacher at Bickley Park school , and academic writer and thinker , include Sir Anthony Seldon , have spend time scribble in the constituency , but perhaps the great intellectual offering come as a pre - ironic criticism of consumerism and a reflection on the UK ' s struggle agricultural base , all express in musical form . produce by an epoch - define philosophical movement from the ' 70 , the song go : " Spam , spam , spam … spam , spam , spam , spam . . . lovely spam " , and be set in the fictional Green Midget caf é in Bromley . I have a pub quiz question for the sport round . who can tell I the only English football league club in the constituency of a Conservative MP ? it be indeed the mighty Bromley FC , recently promote and go great gun , clearly due to the sound political stewardship of the constituency — and I look forward to chant of " you ' ve get the only Tory " from Opposition Members when we take on Notts County at home in Hayes Lane later this week . we have also add to the canon scientific . in 1843 , Thomas John Hussey , the rector of Hayes , notice anomaly in the orbit of the recently discover planet Uranus . he write to the future astronomer royal and talk of " the possibility of some disturbing body beyond Uranus " . [ interruption . ] member be make their own joke up ; stop it . this lead to further investigation and discovery , ultimately contribute to our modern understanding of the solar system . what I be say be that we invent Neptune . move on to politic , while we have our fair share of lefty type , notably anarcho - communist Peter Kropotkin , who live with we for a bit , my favourite local communist have always be Coney Hall ' s irrepressible Elsy Borders , who lead the famous mortgage strike of 1937 . Elsy intentionally default on mortgage payment , demand that the structural flaw in her newly acquire building be repair . I can not but help think how this relate to the substantive issue we be debate . while I have some Labour Members onside , I can delight they far by inform they that we in Bromley and Biggin Hill also invent the modern income tax — but allow I to win back conservative colleague by explain that the revenue raise be use to fight the French . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I get they back . the tax be introduce by our local boy do good , William Pitt the young , who be bear and reside in the constituency . he be assist into his political position by his father , William Pitt the elder , another resident . this original political nepo - baby go on to have an extraordinary career , with perhaps the highlight be the conversation he hold with his colleague William Wilberforce around a tree in the ground of the Pitt residence . a Wilberforce diary entry in 1788 read : " at length , I well remember after a conversation with Mr . Pitt in the open air at the root of an old tree at holwood , just above the steep descent into the vale of Keston , I resolve to give notice on a fit occasion in the House of Commons of my intention to bring forward the abolition of the slave - trade " — evidence that we in this House do occasionally get something right . finally , I turn my attention to the wonderful town of Biggin Hill . it be more kent than London , with its rolling green hill and rural lifestyle , but Biggin Hill have give we so much . I urge member to visit the wonderful Biggin Hill museum and chapel , hear the story of " the few " , and imagine those young man strap themselves into their Spitfires and Hurricanes , accelerate down the runway at Biggin Hill , gently pull back on the stick and glide free from the bond of Earth . imagine the cognitive dissonance that must have arise from the exhilaration of float in the blue kentish sky , and the terror of the strife await they across a freezing channel . this Sunday , 15 September , be Battle of Britain Day , when we remember the service and sacrifice of those who give their life so that we can debate the issue of the day in this place , and be both safe and free . they deliver this freedom with a bravery and selflessness that I can never begin to repay . as the Member for Bromley and Biggin Hill , I recognise the honour and responsibility of forever remember they , and I know that my privilege of serve the whole constituency be deliver by the sacrifice of those who be so much well than I . that speech have set a very high bar . the next maiden speech be from Josh Fenton - Glynn . I congratulate the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) on a valiant attempt to pretend his be the good constituency in the country . I say to he : come back when you have two Nobel prize winner and a poet laureate . I rise to give my maiden speech about the constituency of Calder Valley , where I be bear and bring up , and where I now raise my family . I have have some time to consider this speech , have be elect at the fourth time of ask . I have stand that many time because I believe that the voiceless in our society need a voice ; we have particularly hear that in today ' s debate . as be customary , I would like to start with a few thank - yous . I thank my local Labour official , who for a decade have stand by I and , frankly , put up with I . I also give thank to the campaigner who give up so much time to something big than themselves ; to my agent Marie Wright , who I trust with my campaign ; and to my agent at the three previous election , Steve Sweeney , a fine councillor and a well human being , who , sadly , be no long with we to hear this speech . no series of thank - yous would be complete without those to my family , from Calder Valley ' s two small leaflet deliverer and door - knocker to my amazing wife and all the other family member who have give I emotional and practical support over many year . I owe so much to all of they , and I only hope that I can live up to their expectation of I . Calder Valley , as I know to my cost , be a bellwether constituency , have go the same way as the Government in every election since 1983 . it consist of a string of town that be all unique , but have a common heritage in the wool trade , and there be a commonality in the way they have face the world since that trade have die away . to win in Calder Valley and represent it , a candidate have to be able to speak to different people in different community , and successful government should always do so . Donald Thompson , the first MP for Calder Valley , in his maiden speech for the predecessor seat of Sowerby in 1979 refer to the shift in the use of our mill , say : " not all the mill now spin and weave … dozen of they house new industry " . — [ Official Report , 19 June 1979 ; Vol . 968 , c . 1156 . ] perhaps the story of the modern Calder Valley be how we have adapt to that change . the town of Calder Valley run along the River Calder . that river have bring beauty , and support the textile trade that once make our community world - famous , but it also bring the flood that hit our community particularly hard in 2012 , 2015 and 2020 — a visible sign of the impact of climate change , which will define many of our come year . however , the town have be able to rebuild , rely on an incredible community spirit and a way of be with the world that Chris McCafferty , Calder Valley ' s MP from 1997 to 2010 , describe in her maiden speech as " bloody - minded , proud , pernickety and independent " . — [ Official Report , 21 November 1997 ; Vol . 301 , c . 573 . ] I would demur from say that myself , but I certainly recognise it in many of the people I represent . when I be 15 , Chris be good enough to accept I on work experience in her office . each town have its own history and tradition , guard proudly . the town of Todmorden be the traditional county boundary between Yorkshire and Lancashire , with Yorkshire governance , an Oldham postcode and an accent somewhere in between . it be home to the famous Radical parliamentarian John Fielden , who change the law to reduce the number of hour that child could work to 10 hour a day . over the year , the town have boast an astonishing two Nobel prize winner and be the birthplace of Incredible Edible , which pioneer grow vegetable in community space . move down the river , the town of Hebden Bridge be once famous for fustian trouser and the first worker - own co - operative mill . that mill be now home to Calrec , which make state - of - the - art mixing desk . other mill house a thriving creative community . from Hebden Bridge , a short hop down the rochdale canal take we to Mytholmroyd , the birthplace of poet laureate , and scourge of GCSE English student everywhere , Ted Hughes . the mid - valley include Elland , a market town once of such importance that the ground of Yorkshire ' s large football club be name for the road that lead there . Elland be now home to great business and even well people . I be proud to be a member of Elland round table , and our annual bonfire raise thousand of pound for local good cause . round table across the country offer a lot of charity work , but they also give man an opportunity to do thing alongside each other , create an intentional community of friend that have be vital to man ' s mental health over the year . I pay tribute to they . Elland will soon be improve by a new train station , on which my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport will hear quite a lot from I in due course . our rural community include Ryburn and Greetland — I will pass both spelling to hansard later — where farmer continue to reinvent themselves . from BSE and foot and mouth to political shock such as Brexit , the life of a small farmer be never straightforward . however , they should not be underestimate as custodian of our landscape , nature and biodiversity . by support small farm , we can answer many of the problem we face in other place . the big population centre in the constituency be Brighouse and Rastrick , famous for its brass band that have the dubious honour of the long - run no . 2 in british chart history . over the year , Brighouse have produce everything from biscuit to valve , and it perhaps typify the story of our change industry as much as anywhere . the mill do not spin and weave , but they be now home to new industry . on to I , I be bear and raise in Calder Valley and be keen to continue the campaign tradition of past mps from John Fielden to Chris McCafferty , who be a tireless campaigner for woman ' s right . despite my severe dyslexia , I get a good education at Calder high school , thank to great teacher like my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) . it be the first purpose - build comprehensive school in the north of England . although no one in my family have choose politic as their path , it would be untrue to say that they be not political . indeed , go back to my great - great - grandfather , my family have be Labour supporter . Said ancestor , John Hughes , be agent to Joshua Ritson , the first Labour MP for City of Durham — one of 142 Labour mp elect in the 1922 cohort , but the only Josh . the 2024 intake see a 2 . 9 - fold increase in the number of Labour mp and a sevenfold increase in the number of Joshes . I hope that both number continue to hold strong . hear , hear ! I be the fourth MP for Calder Valley , and the fourth with local government experience . in general , local government be a good grounding for work here , but nowhere more so than Halifax town hall , which be design by Charles Barry , who design much of this place too . halifax town hall be his final building , so we like to say that he practise on Parliament but perfect his work in Calderdale . my predecessor , Craig Whittaker , serve twice on Calderdale council , where he have the job of cabinet member for child and young people . he be also a Whip in this place . although he and I may not agree on many issue , we have a share love for Calder Valley . he be a committed public servant who , between the council and Parliament , give two decade to his community . my council career culminate in take the role of cabinet member for adult service and wellbeing , which include social care . it be perhaps fitting that I have be elect for a party that want to get to grip with this issue in government . while it be easy to talk about the health service and delivery , I find the difference that good care worker make to people ' s life can be even more impactful . when I look at the area on which I have focus in my career , it be the less glamourous topic that draw I . I spend a lot of my career look at the welfare system and how it can alleviate poverty . I have work at Oxfam , the Child Poverty Action Group and Church Action on Poverty . a proud trade unionist , I also support often low - pay worker with the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and the Public and Commercial Services Union . I have always believe in get benefit right , in support people into work rather than punish they for not be able to find work , and in support with dignity those who simply can not work — that be one thing we can do to make our economy strong and people happy in work and life . at PCS , I have the honour of work with many committed public servant in often unseen but absolutely vital job , include public safety , which remind we of the topic of today ' s debate . many of those role be unthinkingly close in the bonfire of the quango , and we must always remember that our action in this House have a large impact elsewhere . my more recent career as council cabinet member for social care and my day job at the General Medical Council have teach I similar lesson , as well as give I a glimpse of the amazing , commit people work in the caring profession . it be only a shame that the unreformed care system place a different value on the work do inside and outside the NHS . I hope that a national care service will recognise that care work be skilled work , and should be support in the same way . I conclude by thank my community of Calder Valley for the faith you have show in I over the year . our town sit like unique pearl in the Pennines , form from Yorkshire grit and bind together by the history of the textile we once produce . I will always keep in mind our diversity and uniqueness , as well as the common thread that weave together and unite we . I promise always to listen and to do my very good to be your voice in Westminster . I call Z ö e Franklin to make her maiden speech . I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) and for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) on their excellent maiden speech , which give a real flavour of their constituency and their constituent . today ' s debate highlight once again the wide issue of build safety and poverty . the safety of the building that house people and their family should not be subject to their economic status , and we must work together across the House to level the play field to provide safety for all in this country . there be clearly much work to be do to achieve this , and I be grateful to the Minister for note that we will have an opportunity to far discuss this issue at a future date . it be with immense pride that I can say that in July , on my third attempt , I be elect to represent the resident of the Guildford constituency , the place that have be my home for the past 25 year . in my speech at the count follow my election , I make a commitment to my resident that I will be an MP for everyone in my constituency , include those whose voice have go unheard for too long . I reiterate that promise today . I first stand for elect office in 2008 , drive by a love for my community and a deep frustration that my area of Bellfields and Slyfield be be fail by the Conservatives . I dedicate myself to help those at risk of lose their home , work on community project and be the voice of my community fight for change in the council chamber . some 16 year later , I be here in this Chamber because of my frustration follow 14 year of conservative failure that have , once again , leave community across Guildford and the whole country struggle . I be also here because the people of Guildford feel that too . they say , " enough be enough " , and feel that I could be their voice for change in this great Chamber . I be honour by the trust they have place in I . we be here as mps to serve our resident , our constituency and our country . I hope that will always be at the forefront of our mind as we fulfil our work as mps , and particularly as we speak in this Chamber and as we vote . speak of service , I would like to take a moment to acknowledge and thank my predecessor , Angela Richardson , Anne Milton and Sir Paul Beresford , part of whose former constituency be now part of the constituency of Guildford . Angela and Anne serve Guildford , its resident and business with determination for 14 year . I thank they on behalf of our constituent . now , on to my wonderful constituency . Guildford be an ancient town . the early human activity in the area be in the mesolithic era and it be mention in Alfred the Great ' s will from 880 ad . the name Guildford mean golden ford , which come from the golden bank at the river crossing below St Catherine ' s chapel , but that be not the only golden watermark in this election . in June , we see a golden tide of Liberal Democrat mps , with 72 elect across the country , include six of we in Surrey . this victory be a message of change for our country and I be very much look forward to work with my fellow Lib Dem mps , particularly on the issue of special educational need and disability and Thames Water . as an MP , I be especially committed to address the cost of living crisis that continue to push too many people into poverty , trap by a crisis not of their own making . we must lift people out of hardship , ensure that everyone have access to the service they need , without drain their pocket . I be sure that colleague throughout the Chamber will agree that the fact that over 3 million people across the UK rely on Trussell Trust food bank alone in 2023 - 24 be a disgrace . it be a blight on our country and it must end . Guildford be not only a historic town but a modern hub of innovation , often refer to as the Hollywood of the computer gaming industry , and home to many high - tech business at the cutting edge of envirotech , defence , space and more . our town be a tech hub that draw on the legacy of our constituency : Ada Lovelace , the mother of computing , live at Horsley Towers in my constituency for many year , and Alan Turing , whose genius continue to be honour through the Alan Turing Institute at my alma mater , the University of Surrey , have his childhood home in Guildford . my constituency be also bless with breathtake natural beauty , from the stunning RHS Wisley to the Surrey hill and our many National Trust property , include the River Wey navigation , which the National Trust also manage . as MP , I be commit to balance the continue evolution and success of my town and surround village with protect the natural beauty of my constituency for generation to come . that be why I will be champion in the House the cause of clean up our river . the River Wey , which flow through the heart of Guildford town and through the village to the east of my constituency , have be the lifeblood of Guildford for century . it be central to Guildford ' s identity , its history , resident ' leisure time and its future . the level of pollution be record in our river month after month be disgusting , and that be impact the health of nature , animal and resident . it be time to clean up our river and bring to an end the story I hear too often on the doorstep , about resident become unwell after go in the water . as one example , I meet the coach of a child ' s cricket team early this year who share how , in 2023 , his young team go for an end of season celebratory dip in the River Wey . every single one of those child become ill after go in the river . I will end with two final thought . the first come from my time study music at the University of Surrey . it teach I the importance of harmony , both in art and in life . it be my sincere hope that together in this Chamber , over the come year , we can create a symphony of voice , change the divisive rhetoric of the last few year and restore public trust in politic and politician . if we do not , I worry about the future we leave for future generation . finally , I want to express my deep gratitude to my friend and family , particularly my husband , Chris , and my son , Reuben and Josh , who have support I every step of the journey to this place and continue to walk it with I . without their love , encouragement and occasional campaigning skill I would not be here today . I call Oliver Ryan to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . please allow I to start by congratulate the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) and for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) on their quite fabulous maiden speech . I be sorry to have to correct all of they , but my constituency be in fact the most beautiful and the most brilliant in the country . have my hon . Friend ever be to Burnley ? slanderous ! I stand here , honour beyond belief , to represent the great town of Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield — town that be part of the story of our nation . this be the land of dramatic sandstone avenue , of hill and sky , of romantic scenery in the shadow of Pendle Hill . this be the land of regimented urban landscape , of terrace top and tower nestle among chimney and waterway , cushion by village , farm , country pub and proper pint . we be England and Lancastrian , and we be proud . Burnley , the " meadow by the Brun " , first record in the 12th century , have long be a hub of culture and commerce . we have a 13th - century market , the 14th - century Towneley Hall play , and the 15th - century St Peter ' s church . indeed , come over the moor from the wrong side of the Pennines , Charlotte Bront ë visit Gawthorpe Hall in Padiham , Wordsworth write of the site of Pendle Hill , and Burnley ' s most prolific poet , Henry Houlding , lead a literary renaissance for northern town in the 19th century . once the epicentre of the global cotton trade , the worker of our town build this country . it be say at its height that Burnley ' s cotton industry have clothe Britain by breakfast and the rest of the world by dinner . we be a birthplace of movement , too — suffragette such as Margaret Aldersley , and fighter , leader and thinker . non - conformist be we — radical and reformer — and once the seat of a Labour leader no less in Arthur Henderson . I say all this because I want to stress that our story do not start or end with the mill . loom for a long time be our tool . in our hand be the industrial world make , but now we be so much more . we do not buy the standard story of decline . we be a place determine , with eye focus on the future , hungry to play our part . by the way , we have no great example of Burnley endurance and enterprise than Burnley football club . yes , sometimes in the face of emotional trauma — at time extreme — they be twice champion of England and one - time winner of the FA cup . let I say , I believe for the first time ever in this House , " up the Clarets ! " as town , we be now a thriving , dynamic , multicultural symbol of renewal and creativity . to be make in east Lancashire be to be a benchmark of quality , particularly in our manufacturing , aerospace science and cultural industry , with world - beat , amazing , innovative company put we on the map . we be also unusual politically , in that the constituency have be represent by all three major party in the past 10 year alone , although I hope to bring a very lengthy period of stability in that regard . Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield be so often paint as town with problem and extensive poverty , which be true , but to end our description there be to misunderstand our mindset , our mission , our sense of history and community . our fight be not in trading narrative as to how we get here . we have problem , yes , but we do not simply retreat to the warm nostalgia of our history . we know that that way lie only stagnation . our fight be in create solution for tomorrow . less interested in rhetoric , storytelling and ideology , town such as mine want outcome . for we , one ' s ability to deliver solution mean a lot more than the colour of a rosette . outcome be what matter . what be good be what work . in our public service , that mean dependable quality , transparency , choice , the interest of user come first and an approach that challenge every vest interest in the public interest . reflect on this mantra and the debate today , I want to talk a little about our housing stock . first raise by my predecessor , Peter Pike , in his maiden speech of 1983 , the once proud regiment sandstone avenue that I speak of early — once a step up for family — be now in a poor and worsen state . too many of my constituent live in substandard , under - insulate , cold and mouldy home . low land value lock out investment , but , more critically , lock out family from the decent accommodation that they deserve and write off whole community as just not worth the investment . if we be to continue to thrive , we need more housing , new housing , more social housing and a decent retrofit programme not see on a scale since the last Labour Government . it be only through that growth that we can achieve the sort of improvement in our public service that we need . that be the only way that we will attract the secure job and dynamic workforce of the future . too many of our young people be stick in a generational cycle of worklessness , which hold back entire family , because of a lack of opportunity , skill , connectivity and , actually , confidence . we will only truly grow as a country when people in place like ours feel that growth touch they ; when prosperity reach the doorstep of our terrace ; when we break the cycle and say , " if you have the will , we will give you the way . no one leave behind . " in my time here , I hope to represent to the good of my ability those value and ambition . at this juncture , as be tradition , I pay tribute to my predecessor : in Burnley and Padiham , Antony Higginbotham ; and in Brierfield and Nelson East , Andrew Stephenson . both very decent and hard - work man , they campaign on many local issue in their year in this House , and have many friend across the House , which be testament to their character . I genuinely wish they both well for the future . I be the great - grandson of irish immigrant , from Dublin and across Ireland , who make their life in Manchester . I be age two , and one of two kid to a single mum , when Labour take office in 1997 . it be because of that government that my mother be support through illness to raise we , by an NHS with the time and resource to care . scheme such as Building Schools for the Future , first praise by my predecessor Kitty Ussher in her maiden speech in 2005 , give I this future , and I be one of many . we stand on the shoulder of giant in this place , but I be able to climb on to those shoulder only because of a supportive family , who be watch from the Gallery , and the ladder that that Labour Government provide for kid like I and family like mine , from town like mine . I know that this new Labour Government will strive to do the same , and I for one be enormously proud to be a part of it . I call Sarah Gibson to make her maiden speech . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this building safety debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) and for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , my hon . friend the Member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) and the hon . member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) on the love that they have show for their constituency . my first contribution to this House be in the Prime Minister ' s statement on Grenfell last week . we must not forget in this debate that that tragedy be also a fault of fail building safety and government accountability . have work in the construction industry as an architect in Spain , and have run an architectural practice in the UK for most of my professional life , I have see far too often the construction industry fall foul of silo - work and cost - cutting . value engineering be what we call it in the trade , but member should not be fool ; it add no value and be very rarely engineer . many family in my constituency , and indeed across the UK , be bear the effect of poor building safety in various way . home be suffer from mould and damp , as the hon . member for Burnley mention , with complaint to housing association , let agency and landlord often fall on deaf ear . I urge the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government in its propose review of the building regulation to introduce strong measure to protect the most vulnerable resident from mould and damp . everyone deserve a safe and comfortable home to return to . however , I do not want member to leave today ' s debate thinking that the only notable point of the beautiful constituency of Chippenham be that it be damp , although there be no doubt that the west country be beautifully green for a good reason . Chippenham sit in Wiltshire , in the south - west of England , and we have a proud industrial heritage too , with mill originally reliant on the River Avon , and later on the great Western Railway , with its many impressive tunnel and viaduct . that railway currently stop only in Chippenham , so I will spend the next few year demand that Corsham and Royal Wootton Bassett be also in receipt of station . quality employment and prosperity come with the railway when it be build . access to transport be equally important to the growth of the area today . it will play a vital part in my constituency ' s future as an innovation hub . we be currently home to some fantastic cutting - edge business , from the renewable energy sector through to the health science . they be complement by the provision of excellent technical education — namely that provide by the Wiltshire college and university centre , whose campus in Lackham and Chippenham will be critical to the growth of dynamic young company in the future . I intend to be a strong voice championing skill , employment and opportunity in that part of the world . my father , who unfortunately die very young , instill in I a passion for technology and innovation . but he also leave I with a very special interest in vintage car and all thing mechanical , so I be incredibly lucky now to be married to David , who build the very first electric Austin Seven some 30 year ago . slow , old car be the perfect way to drive through a constituency that host some of the most beautiful town and village in the country — contrary to the view that some colleague have express today . many of those place will be familiar to the House . the town of Corsham be home to free - range peacock and , surprisingly , can be recognise in " Poldark . " the town of Calne — rightly call " the town of discovery " — be home to Joseph Priestley , who discover oxygen , while Laycock , with its picturesque abbey , be home to William Fox Talbot , the inventor of the photographic negative , and appear in more film than I have time to mention . Royal Wootton Basset , with its proud connection to RAF Lyneham , be grant royal status thank to the community ' s important role in the repatriation of those kill in the service of this country . the recent boundary change mean that I have inherit the honour of represent those community from both Michelle Donelan and James Gray . James will be know to this House for his chairmanship of the armed force parliamentary scheme , which have do wonder to ensure that we gain an insight into the life of those who have commit to serve in our military . Michelle Donelan have be a strong advocate for Chippenham town centre , and her work in that area will not be forget . before Michelle and James , Chippenham be represent by my Liberal Democrat friend and colleague Duncan Hames , whom I thank for his advice and support in what have be a hectic start to life in the Commons . over the past week , many people have ask I if I have have a restful recess . I have find myself raise an eyebrow and explain that it have be the busy period of my life . not be on these Benches over the summer have mean that I have be able to hit the ground run at home and raise specific concern about a lack of NHS dental provision and access to GPs across the constituency . I have also be able to meet campaigner and lend my support to important issue in the constituency , such as Chippenham ' s " one plan , " Bassett ' s propose active travel network , and the campaign for a new health centre in Calne . in back those project , I intend to ensure that there be career for young people in my area , and option for those hope to change career in later life . like many member , my own career have take a dramatic change of tack recently . I hope that the House will not mind if I briefly explain how I find myself here today . I be lucky enough to be bear into a family that care deeply about my education . with their support , and a grant from Wiltshire council , I be able to study architecture at Kingston and at University College London before register as an architect in Spain . some year later , I return home to Wiltshire and become a town and unitary authority councillor . it be from that perspective of positive experience in local government that I feel I could do more to promote the interest of my community here in Westminster , and I be honour that they think so too . I end my maiden speech by wish my brother , Luke , a very happy birthday , and by thank my mother , who have be a great source of strength to I . she canvass tirelessly on my behalf throughout the election campaign , even in the pour rain in what we now all know to be a rather damp constituency . finally , I give my thank to my constituent . whether they vote for I or not , I promise to work hard and champion they all in everything I do . I congratulate the new hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) on a brilliant maiden speech — it be quite emotional at the end there — and all hon . member who have make maiden speech today . my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) be still a young lad now , but he be an even young lad when I have the displeasure of campaign with he in Burnley — he have short on , but he still manage to win . it be great to see he in his place and it be a pleasure to listen to his maiden speech . this debate be obviously about a very serious matter . my thought , and the thought of everyone in the Chamber , be with the 72 people — man , woman and child — who lose their life in the Grenfell fire over seven year ago . it be an appalling event and the survivor and the community be yet to see justice . that might mean criminal prosecution , as my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) rightfully highlight — I know he be urge for that to happen at pace , as he do yesterday during Justice question — or , in regard to the broad building safety crisis , ensure that building be make safe at pace . Sir Martin Moore - Bick ' s phase 2 Grenfell report and recommendation make for difficult reading . in fact , digest they will make we angry . we all have to channel that anger , collectively and responsibly , to ensure that the victim of Grenfell and previous fire , such as Lakanal and in Kirby , be respond to by the body politic and the new Government — my good colleague and hon . friend now on the Front Bench . just think about this : each and every one of those 72 people who lose their life should still be with we today , enjoy the life that we enjoy and have the frustration that we have . as the report say , the event be entirely preventable . it be entirely predictable . but the lesson from history , whether that be Lakanal or the early fire in Kirby , be not learn . they be not act upon by successive government of all political persuasion or by industry . I will not name the company refer to in the report for obvious reason to do with the court case . government , product manufacturer — you name it , Grenfell be the result of organisation and individual , as the report say , be systematically dishonest . Dishonesty be hardwire into the construction and building industry , put profit before people ' s life . we can not escape the fact that this be a political decision , drive by ideology . the coalition Government be reference in the report : their time in office be basically a bonfire of red tape . it be deregulation — build they high , build they cheap and refurbish they cheap — and the consequence be all too clear . indeed , resident of Grenfell alert the council of the day , regulator and the power that be that this be an accident wait to happen , and it do happen , with all those consequence for all to see . of course , some of this have continue . we have have company game test of product that be put on high - rise — product that should never have be there . let we be frank : those product be solidify petrol . thousand of they be put on high - rise up and down the country — high - rise insulate by solidify petrol . this country be quite unique in the fact that it greenlighte those product through deregulation . it be no coincidence that we have fire such as Lakanal and Grenfell . the hon . Gentleman have mention the gaming of the system and the test . be he as appal as I be to read about the way in which those test be game ? it be say that those product , which be design not to burn , fail the test , so the company go back a second time . one of the issue with the test be that the temperature have to not rise too much , so the company insulate the temperature gauge rather than admit that they have a product that ultimately be not fit for the purpose they be try to sell it for . be he appal as I be that that practice be allow to happen , and do he agree that the testing house need to shoulder some responsibility for the fact that it be allow to happen ? absolutely I be appalled , and as I have say , those product be still with we . my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) will refer to a recent incident in Dagenham where they be try to remediate the problem . in September 2020 , an external wall survey reveal that the cladding on the Spectrum building in my constituency be not compliant with building regulation . work to remediate that building be not action until three year later , in July 2023 . the building be then engulf by flame a few short week ago , with only 20 % of the remediation work still outstanding . do my hon . friend agree that urgent step be need to massively scale up the process of remediation ? I agree with my hon . friend . she have demonstrate how alive and kick this issue be , and the need for the new Government — who have not be in power very long ; less than 10 week now — to step up and step in on the issue of regulation and remediation . I know that they will do just that . because of campaigner — whether it be Grenfell United , the all - party parliamentary group on fire safety and on leasehold , the clad action group , or hon . member in this place — we now have strong regulation in the form of the Building Safety Act . as the new shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , have say , there be considerable cross - party work over that period of time , and I be the shadow housing and planning Minister throughout that 13 - week process . we certainly have a strong regulation framework now to remediate those building , and as the Minister mention , a considerable amount of money have be commit — billion of pound — but the Act undoubtedly have some hole . remediation be not do at pace — it be incredibly slow — and it be clad - centric , as be mention by the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , which mean it do not cover the broad fire safety issue that it should cover . the new Labour Government and the ministerial team have quickly discover — they be crystal clear about this — that the remediation process be incredibly slow , and they be go to turbocharge it . seven year on from Grenfell , only 29 % of building have be fully remediate . I think the Minister mention that up to 7 , 000 building have be identify , so the task in hand be incredible . it be alarming , but follow the Grenfell inquiry phase 2 report , I know that we will step up and move thing on at pace . member have mention insurance premium . I find it somewhat bizarre that in a number of remediate building the insurance premium be go up . the shadow Minister refer to that . how can that be ? if something be safe , surely the risk have go down . I think there be some fundamental question to ask there . there be certainly issue about commission be pass on to management agent and freeholder , and a plethora of other thing be cause insurance premium to go up . minister certainly need to ensure that there be intervention on thing be pass on in service charge , such as insurance , so that we can bring down cost . it may be that we should have a similar model to that for flooding . with Flood Re , the Government have become an underwriter to help bring cost down . I be not go to get overly party political , but intervention by the previous Government do not work , so collectively we have to move thing forward . there be a plethora of issue . we have talk about insurance , and the previous Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , who be not in his place at the moment , refer to issue with mortgage . he also mention the lack of parity in funding between social housing provider or housing association and the private sector . again , that need to be address by the Government . there be a lot of money out there , and a lot of people with responsibility for this mess need to pay . some leaseholder in building such as the Decks in my constituency be beyond the scope of the Building Safety Act . they do not have protection , but be what be call the exclude leaseholder . yet if those individual flat be not remediate , it mean the whole block be not remediate . it also mean that many be face bankruptcy and can not sell on . again , there be a bit more homework to be do at pace by the new Government to ensure that there be justice for leaseholder , who be innocent in this whole toxic mess . my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater mention one of the key recommendation in the phase 2 report about the regulator , and I will conclude on this point . at the moment , the Building Safety Regulator be in the Health and Safety Executive and , as he say , I be not convince it be resource as it should be . that add to the mix of confusion around accountability , as do the fact that there be several pot — four or five different pot — of finance . we need one single regulator , accountable to a Minister , to get a grip and provide the drive to remediate such building at pace . finally , justice be certainly about ensure that all those building up and down the country be safe , but it be also about ensure that those responsible for this — those responsible for Grenfell — be bring to account through criminal prosecution . I be delighted to be able to speak in this debate . I compliment and congratulate the member who have make their first speech : the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) and for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) , which be the town where I be bear . this debate , about build safety , come on the back of the report by Sir Martin Moore - Bick on the Grenfell fire , which should be sober reading for anybody who have any sort of public duty or be in public life . it catalogue how privatisation , underfunding , inadequate surveillance and inadequate supervision lead to a vulnerable group of tenant be leave in a desperate situation in which a large number die . he conclude in his report that every single one of those death could have be avoid , have there be proper regulation and protection . his proposal be far - reach , and I look forward to the Government respond in detail , in the near future , on how they will ensure proper regulation and supervision and , above all , a role for local government as the local inspectorate of all building to ensure that they be all safe and that all the material be correctly put together . the idea that deregulation can bring about safety be obviously nonsense , and this report have show it to be such . recent change to building regulation require approve inspector to be certify . that be welcome , but do the right hon . Gentleman agree that the original scheme , under which supervision be by local authority , which be not financially tie to the contractor , developer or employer , be considerably safe than this deregulated system with approve inspector ? perhaps the Government should look carefully at change that . the hon . member be absolutely right . the watchword have to be independence , of both inspection and regulation . the idea that developer can mark their own homework have to be get rid of sharpish , because it be a dangerous precedent , and we can now see the result of it . this horrible fire at Grenfell do not come from nowhere . there be the Knowsley fire and the Lakanal House fire . there be constant reference to the danger of inadequate or inappropriate cladding , the lack of fire equipment , and the fire risk that go with that . this have to be the most massive wake - up call there have ever be . it also show that community , such as those in Grenfell , be treat with contempt by their local authority , regulator and other . they simply do not care . in Grenfell , there be a mixed group of working - class tenant live in a dangerous place . on the day that the report come out , one of the resident be ask about it , and he say that the cladding might as well have be make of firelighter , give the danger it present to they all . something quickly need to be do about that . we must look at how we deal with the need for remedial action . when the Grenfell fire take place , inspection be immediately make of building all over the country ; that be the right thing to do . by and large , local authority respond well and remove cladding . in my local authority , Islington , cladding be discover on one local authority building , Fyfield House , and that be immediately remove by the authority . however , I find that building in the private sector and other building in which leaseholder live have not be deal with in the same way or with the same efficiency , and tenant , resident and leaseholder be pay the price for that . to give an example , there be a nice leasehold development in my constituency call Highbury Square . it be apparently well build and have good facility . the problem be that it have cladding that have not be certify or approve , so the insurance cost be very high . the developer do not want to pay for the remedial work , and despite numerous meeting be hold with Ministers in the previous government and so on , no action have be take . the family live there can not sell or move . they can not do anything . they be absolutely stuck . I say in my intervention on the Minister that those who have have to incur huge insurance cost just to remain in their flat should be compensate , and the stress among people who live in such place should also be recognise through compensation . if there be a huge dispute about who will pay for all this — I be quite sure that many company will try to take legal action against the Government — surely it be the Government ' s responsibility to step in , if necessary , and do the work . they can charge it to the owner of the freehold or leasehold who be the cause of the problem . in the case I mention , aviva pension fund be responsible . in the case of the Drayton Park development in my constituency , which the Ministry be well aware of — I have several meeting about it with Ministers under the previous Government and many official — it be Galliard Homes , which seem to be try to evade its responsibility to ensure that the work be carry out . I appeal to the Minister to look carefully at the excessive delay cause by endless argument with developer and the owner of freehold . those delay have put people at risk and have lead to enormous cost for they . I come across other development all the time that seem to be in the same situation , include some of those at the former Arsenal stadium site . this debate be about all that . in this debate , we also recognise how community respond , and how they respond to the Grenfell fire . I go there the day after the fire , and meet the firefighter who , unbelievably bravely , have be try to deal with a fire the like of which they have never see before . they do not really have the wherewithal to deal with it . their bravery be enormous and their stress be huge . some of they receive abuse from our medium and other , who try to put the blame on they . they be the last people who should be blame . I also see how the community come together . I have be on every one of the silent walk for Grenfell that take place every year on the anniversary , usually in the company of the former Member of Parliament for Kensington , Emma Dent Coad , who do a fantastic job , not just at the time as the MP , but since then , campaign for safety and justice for the victim of Grenfell . it need to be recognise that the community come together to support and to demand , and they expect answer from this government , so that they can live in a place of safety in the future . the last thing that I want to say — I know that other wish to speak — be that fundamentally this debate be about housing and how we treat people . we have have market domination of the principle of housing . we have go away from the principle of housing as a human right and instead to a market solution to it all . we can see the result : several thousand people rough sleeping every night ; ten of thousand of people live in grotesquely overcrowded condition ; and many people — in my constituency , a third of they — live in the private rented sector , which be largely unregulated , insecure and very expensive . I have be leaf through the Renters ' right Bill just produce by the Secretary of State . I welcome much of what I have read , but unless the Bill address the fundamental issue of the cost of private renting , instead of leave it to the market to set the cost , area like mine will suffer from social cleansing for a long time to come . working - class family will be move out because they simply can not afford to stay . we want to maintain the community in our inner - urban and city area in all part of the country , so we need rent regulation , as well as security of tenure and all that go with it . that mean public intervention , build more council house and take the market element out of how planning decision be make on build council housing . instead , we should say , " the priority for all our community be a sufficient supply of good - quality , well - design council housing . " I finish on this thought : we have the potential to build some wonderful place , but also to take over many empty property and convert they into some form of council or social housing . we need to ensure that housing be well design , with sufficient open space and good room size . when developer be create a home for someone to live in , they should think it through — change in life , disability that may occur and everything else — and ensure that we have the high possible quality social housing design for the future . this report could be a great turning point in the way that we deal with housing in our society — or it could be shelve and forget in a few year ' time . the people of Grenfell , who suffer and be still grieve the loss of other , will never let we forget it . I call Chris Curtis to make his maiden speech . I start by congratulate the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) and the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) on their fantastic maiden speech . it be great to start my time in this place by prove no few than five colleague wrong about their constituency be the good , because obviously that be an award that belong to the people of Milton Keynes North . this be such an important debate on an issue that affect many of my constituent and those of other Members represent Milton Keynes . I be glad to hear that this Government will work to ensure that everyone feel safe in their home . as the brother of one of our brave local firefighter in Milton Keynes , I echo the comment of many colleague who pay tribute to those in our emergency service who have deal with such incident . I hope that they have to deal with far few in future . it be an immense honour to stand here today as the new MP for Milton Keynes North . I be deeply privileged to represent not just the new city of Milton Keynes but many of the beautiful village and historic town around which it be build . in my constituency lie the old market town of Olney , where 250 year ago the timeless hymn " Amazing Grace " be pen . there be Wolverton , which boast the old operational railway work in the world ; Stony Stratford , where I be tell the term " cock and bull story " originate — thankfully not something we be know for in this place — and Newport Pagnell , which for over half a century host the headquarters of Aston Martin . next week mark 60 year since the release of the film " Goldfinger " , in which the most famous car in the world , the db5 , make its debut . last week , I have the pleasure to visit Aston Martin to see the home of that historic car and where some of " on her Majesty ' s Secret Service " be film . can I promise that my contribution in this place will have the excitement , glamour and the adrenalin of those film ? no , I can not , but as the MP represent town with such fascinating past , I promise that I will fight to give they all an even bright future . I start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Ben Everitt . he work tirelessly to try to secure a much need woman ' s and child ' s hospital for Milton Keynes . as we now have some of the long NHS waiting list in the country , it be an important campaign , and I will be sure to take up its rein . he also chair the all - party parliamentary group for housing market and housing delivery , which look at how we fix the break planning system — some of the issue have be discuss today . I hope that this new Government take forward many of the recommendation that emerge from that work as we strive to build the 1 . 5 million new home that this country need . I would like to take a moment to mention my labour predecessor and friend , the late Brian White . Brian be a true champion of Milton Keynes . he see the potential in our city long before it be fully realise and , as an MP , local councillor and later mayor , Brian be a tireless advocate for our community . he be never one to shy away from a hard battle , as those of we who know he can attest . one of those battle be the successful fight to keep the law in this place write on vellum . unfortunately , we have since move to a compromise position where only the front cover of each Act be print that way , but since the only remain vellum manufacturer in the country , William Cowley , be base in my constituency , I will fight with everything I can to keep what be leave of this important 175 - year - old tradition . as the first MP for Milton Keynes who be bear , and grow up , there , I would like to talk about the many man and woman who build the new town — now city — that I call home . one in particular be Fred Roche , the man who lead the Milton Keynes development corporation with a bold and uncompromise vision . the mantra that everybody on that team live by be , " make no little plan " . Fred be a streetfighter , who more than anything else be willing to do what be need to achieve something that many other have consider impossible : get money out of the Treasury . allegedly , he insist on construct the outer road of Milton Keynes first , make it hard for the budget to be cut later — a scheme that those work on HS2 wish they have think of . he also once march into Whitehall on Christmas eve and refuse to leave until his budget be approve . I just mention to the Government Front Bench that those be tactic I will not rule out use in the future . [ laughter . ] for member across the Chamber who have , shamefully , not yet visit Milton Keynes , what Fred and his team build be nothing short of a masterpiece . at time when family right across our country be live in substandard condition — many would echo some of the comment we have hear today — and many be live without even an indoor toilet , Milton Keynes offer a beacon of hope . high - quality home be build for ten of thousand of new resident and , at its peak , 10 family be move in every single day . in just a few decade , what be once a vision on a planner ' s desk have transform into one of the UK ' s most dynamic economic powerhouse . today , we be home to Santander UK , one of the big bank in the country , and Red Bull Racing , the fast Formula 1 team on the planet — when I speak to Aston Martin last week , it tell I to take out that line . [ laughter . ] the city of pioneer and innovator create more start - up than almost anywhere else , boast a grow tech sector worth over £ 3 billion and rank as one of the most productive place in the country . for every pound that Fred do manage to squeeze out of the Treasury ' s tight grasp , we have repay it many , many time over . and while it may be know for its concrete cow , it be far from a concrete jungle . some 40 % of our city be comprise of green space . alongside those be our beautiful lake , river and canal . every child , include I , grow up within a five - minute walk of a park or green space . it be say that plant a tree be one of the great act of altruism . we dig , we plant a seed and , with that small act , we shape the world for many generation to come . Fred Roche and the team plant more than a fair few tree . in fact , Milton Keynes boast over 22 million tree , more than 80 per person . but I would argue that build a new town be an even great act of altruism . Fred pass away a few year before I be bear , but I stand here today as a member of the first generation that truly benefit from his vision . thank to Fred ' s design , my young parent be able to scrape together enough to raise I and my brother in a spacious house with its own back garden . the dream of home ownership become a reality for they , provide we with the security and stability need for the good start in life . the park and green space they create back then may one day be enjoy by my own child . now , I will not pretend that we do not have our share of challenge , one I will work tirelessly to address in this place , but Milton Keynes be build on that new town promise of good job , public service that be there when you need they , and , most importantly , affordable and high - quality new home . it be a place that give I the opportunity , so that I could one day be stand here , give my maiden speech in the House of Commons . I mention that because in my short time in politic I have notice that too often people search for excuse to oppose new development . there be a view , or have be a view , that it be more politically convenient to be a voice that yell no , rather than a voice that search for way to say yes . and while the acronym " nimby " may be a modern invention , the sentiment be not . glance through Hansard of the ' 60 and ' 70 , we find countless example of opposition to the building of my hometown . but there be consequence to that short - term political thinking . if it be not for Fred and the Milton Keynes development corporation team ' s ambition , back by the 1960s Labour Government , the two - bed end of terrace that my brother and I grow up in would never have exist . as a proud son of Milton Keynes , I can think of no mission more important for this new Government than to build the new town and new home that this country need . it will require we to embrace the spirit of Fred Roche — visionary , unyielde in the face of opposition , and make no little plan — but it will allow we to build a future where every child in Britain have the opportunity to thrive in a home and a community that nurture their potential , as mine do for I . it be a pleasure to address the House on the critical issue of build safety . before I get to the meat of my speech , may I congratulate the maiden speaker we have hear today ? they have take we on a tour of Britain — or , perhaps more particularly , a tour of England — that would send the newly reconvene all - party parliamentary group on publish into an excitable frenzy ; I hope some of those word find themselves in the publication of the future . I particularly congratulate the hon . member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) on his maiden speech , and thank he and his brother for their service to his constituent and to those imperille by the risk of fire . the cladding and fire safety scandal that underpin this discussion be a national issue that impact resident in almost every constituency across the country , but which do so highly unevenly , with different geographical intensity , and which , for those who be unaffected and unimpacted , can go almost entirely unobserved . for those who do feel the direct effect , the result can be devastating . my constituent have make this point to I in the most vivid term . to find yourself resident in a building catch up in the cladding and fire safety scandal be to find yourself lock in a bewildering series of revelation and disclosure beyond your control and often beyond your understanding , each one of which undermine your confidence in the safety of the place in your life and the life of your family that should be a sanctuary : your home . unlike more urban area , my constituency of Surrey Heath have not be especially hard hit by the scandal , but neither have it escape it all together . my constituent live in the North Court development in Camberley , our main market town , have live through the trauma of find that their building pose serious risk to they from unsafe , flammable cladding and fire safety failure that have be present in the building from the point of construction more than 15 year ago — risk and threat that should never have be there , cover up by plasterboard and panelling , and which be only bring to the surface in the month and year follow the tragic loss of 72 life in the Grenfell Tower fire . despite the effort of inquiry to ensure that such a tragedy be never repeat , accord to figure that I have see , there remain in the UK today 4 , 630 building with unsafe cladding . of those , 3 , 287 be await remediation ; and of those , 2 , 331 have yet to even start the process . accord to the building safety register , that leave around half a million life still at risk . we must also remember that the Government ' s figure relate only to mid and high - rise block — those above 11 metre in height . we have no datum to understand how the building safety crisis be affect many ten , hundred and thousand of block that do not meet that height threshold . clear and urgent question remain about if , when and how the Government plan to gather and publish that datum . we can not hope to resolve the issue if we have no clear or quantifiable grasp of the scale and scope of the problem . where action be take , it must be robust , efficient and inform by the good expertise available . give the potentially fatal consequence of inaction , maintain the high standard in future building safety measure be essential . recent dispute , such as that between Barratt Homes and the resident of Royal Artillery Quays over combustible panel leave on escape stairwell during remediation work , raise serious question about whether current approach to remediation be sufficiently robust . we must also question the capacity of the new Building Safety Regulator to investigate such issue . a recent report state that , as of February 2024 , the regulator have only 10 regulatory lead and eight caseworker — a situation describe as " chronically under - resource " . resident of building undergo remediation work have urgent question and concern that need to be address . I have be contact by many constituent share their distress and anxiety about a process that leave they feel powerless and prisoner in their own home . as I speak here today , the resident of North Court be live amid scaffold , plastic sheeting and constant noise while the flammable cladding that once wrap their building be remove . the recent fire in Dagenham underscore the risk associate with such project , and we can not allow a repeat of that to occur . resident across the country be not unaware of these risk , and live with the constant uncertainty that they pose . the House should commend the extensive legal reform enact after Grenfell , include the Fire Safety ( England ) Regulations 2022 , the Building Safety Act 2022 , and the establishment of the Building Safety Regulator . however , I have yet to see the regulator actively enforce the regulation through prosecution . we can not allow , nor can we afford , law pass in this place to go unenforced , whether owe to a lack of political will , insufficient funding for regulator or poorly draft legislation . as I have already mention , the victim and family of Grenfell have not yet receive the justice they deserve , and I can not allow my constituent to suffer a similar injustice . I look forward to see those who violate regulation in the residential property sector hold accountable without further delay . while time be of the essence , I want to ask the Minister and , indeed , the Government to take a few key action . first , I ask they to act with " more haste , less speed " to ensure that safety be not compromise in the name of expediency . the relevant datum must be gather and publish , regulation must be robust , and regulator must be properly resource . secondly , I ask they to convene a building safety crisis taskforce to help shape the resolution of the building safety crisis , draw together industry leader , resident , local and national politician , civil servant and third sector stakeholder . thirdly , I ask they to undertake a full and holistic review of current and propose building safety regulation in order to understand what work , how those regulation interact with one another , and the enforceability — and the willingness to enforce — the regulation currently write into law . the safety of my constituent in North Court , and that of other throughout the country , depend on such action . I commend all the maiden speech that we have hear today : I feel as if I have be on a tour of England follow the description of so many constituency . may I associate myself with what be say by the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) about his predecessor , Bob Neill ? I now represent part of Bob Neill ' s former constituency , and I know from talk to people during the recent general election campaign that he be hold in high regard by his constituent . I wish he all the good for the future . I be sick and tired of come here and raise the issue of Master Gunner Place in my constituency . it have be in need of remedial work for a very long time , and still nothing have be do . it be build by Countryside Properties , now Vistry Group Ltd , and we understand that it be about to be hand over to a company call Samnas , although that be yet to happen I have write many time to the manage agent , Rendall and Rittner , about issue that have be raise with I by my constituent , but to no avail . I be approach by one of my constituent who live in Master Gunner Place . he have try to sell his property on four occasion ; at the final attempt he have one bidder , whose bid he accept . however , the bidder be refuse a mortgage owe to the size of the service charge . the charge for 2022 - 23 rise by 107 % in 2023 - 24 , to £ 6 , 100 , and such charge be now trap people in home they be unable to sell . under section 22 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 , the leaseholder be entitle to demand from the freeholder or the manage agent an explanation of how those charge be arrive at . when the resident of Master Gunner Place ask for that , they be give only partial information , and on several occasion the manage agent fail to meet the requirement to respond within 30 day . in the end , the agent flatly refuse to supply the miss information . when my constituent complain to the manage agent , it do not answer ; it just get its solicitor to respond and threaten he with a county court judgment . as a result of that , my constituent have no option : because of the term of the lease , he have to pay up ; otherwise , he could have be in default . he end up pay the service charge , plus nearly £ 1 , 250 in legal fee and interest for be two month late with his payment . the resident try to mount legal action but , ironically , they fear that if they be to take on the freeholder over the cost , they would risk the freeholder add the cost of defend the action to their service charge , because of the term of the lease . they be absolutely trap in a situation whereby they need the information to be able to legally challenge the freeholder , but the freeholder and the manage agent be withhold the information that be need to undertake the action . that can not be a fair situation for the resident to be leave in . do my hon . friend agree that it be also about insurance ? I have a constituent in a similar situation who have have to pay £ 2 , 500 in insurance cost . yes , insurance cost be drive up service charge . I have hear of 60 % increase in service charge that be attributable to insurance cost . insurance company be gouge price and make money on the back of this situation . give what have bring we to this debate , it be absolutely appalling that they be behave in that way . remedial work be ultimately the responsibility of freeholder , and contribution from leaseholder should be cap . management company be oblige to provide the detail of what they intend to spend on such work but , unfortunately , they be withhold that information . the manage agent should not be able to charge resident anything until the information be supply . the cap should be spread over 10 year , and no more than one tenth of the cost should be charge in any one year . in the absence of the relevant information , leaseholder can not check whether the charge that be be impose on they be reasonable . if they do not pay they and they challenge they , they risk be in default of their lease and receive a letter from solicitor . the reality be that the term of lease prevent people from be able to get justice . the outstanding safety work in the block in Master Gunner Place be simply not be do . a survey be do at the end of 2019 , and it be clear that the work need to be do . in the intervene year , none of it have be carry out . the developer , Vistry Group , be supposedly in the process of handing over the freehold to Samnas , but because the legal document have not be sign , the leaseholder have be leave in limbo and be unable to progress any of the work . the leaseholder engage lawyer to write to the developer in order to get a reply on the scope of the work that need to be carry out , and they be inform that the work be due to start in August 2024 . here we be in September , and nothing have be do . they still have no idea about what work be in scope or what contribution the resident will have to make . there be three block involve in the development and , to date , none of they have have any of the remedial work do . it be now time to draw a line under all this . it have go on for too long . we know that the work need to be do , we know who be responsible for it and we should not be allow they to drag their foot any more . it be time for the remediation acceleration scheme to put a rocket under those developer and freeholder . we should be ensure that they carry out this work , and that if they refuse to do so , they be fine . only fine will make these people see reason ; it be only if they be hit financially that they will change their way . the remediation acceleration scheme must also include compensation for leaseholder for all the unreasonable charge they have be force to pay because the management company and the freeholder have withhold the information need to ensure accurate fee and charge and that the cap be be properly apply . where those company have not do that , we should be make sure that they be fine . I call Melanie Ward to make her maiden speech . I congratulate all the hon . member who have make their maiden speech in today ' s debate , and in particular my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) who make a witty and ambitious speech give an ambitious vision for his area , which I fully support and congratulate he on . it be the honour of my life to have be elect to serve and represent the people of the Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy constituency in this Parliament . to each of my constituent , I say , " I will do my very good to serve you , regardless of who you vote for . " I pay tribute to my predecessor , Neale Hanvey , who represent the area with passion and a particular dedication to casework — a crucial part of an MP ' s role that be too often overlook . I be only the second woman to represent this fine constituency , the first have be Lesley Laird . Lesley , like I , be a passionate advocate for woman ' s equality . I be proud to be elect to a Parliament that have more woman in it than any before , and I give grateful thank to the woman who fight for our right to be here today and to be here in significant number — woman such as Jenny Lee from Fife . we stand on the shoulder of these sister , and I pledge today to continue to work for our equality with man . progress of any kind be often hard fight , and that be a lesson I will keep hold of . nevertheless , we persist . my constituency enjoy widespread name recognition because our former Prime Minister , Gordon Brown , be another of my predecessor . no pressure , then ! Gordon ' s contribution to our community , our country and our world be deep and lasting . More than anything , I take inspiration from his absolute moral clarity over why he be in politic and what he use power for — namely , to tackle poverty . Gordon ' s first speech in this place be an excoriate expos é of unemployment under the then Conservative Government and the poverty it have create locally . today , in one part of Kirkcaldy , one in four child be grow up in poverty . the last Labour Government lift almost 1 . 5 million child out of poverty , and we will ensure that this one do similar . unlike some , I do not believe that the purpose of politic be simply to ensure well opportunity for those we be here to serve . it be also about better their outcome , because every child in my constituency should be able to fulfil his or her potential . as we have hear this afternoon , it be not surprising in a first speech to say how lucky we be to represent such a beautiful part of our United Kingdom , but in my case it be definitely true . my constituency take in town and village include Dysart , Kirkcaldy , Kinghorn , Burntisland , Aberdour , Dalgety Bay , North Queensferry , Inverkeithing , Kingseat , Crossgates , Auchtertool , Cowdenbeath , Hill of Beath and Lumphinnans , as well as the island of Inchcolm and Inchkeith . we have some 19 mile of glorious Fife coastline , stunning beach and rolling field . one end of the engineering wonder that be the Forth bridge , a UNESCO world heritage site , rest in North Queensferry . hon . member who may wish to take a train across it to visit we would find much to enjoy , from the link market in the Lang Toun , Europe ' s long street fair , to Burntisland highland game , the second old highland game in Scotland , and many wonderful gala — I greatly enjoy parade in the excellent Cowdenbeath gala day this year — as well as a multitude of event at Aberdour festival , and so much more besides . however , it be a different kind of beauty which truly mark my constituency as special : the beauty of community solidarity and look out for each other in difficult time . today , our food bank and so many amazing community organisation such as Max ' s Meals , the Cottage , the local YMCA , Greener Kirkcaldy and Nourish be do work that they should not have to do to stop people go hungry . just as we on the Labour Benches recognise the beauty of this community solidarity , we work for the day when nobody have to rely on it . Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy help to power the industrial success of this country , as mining be once a booming industry . People work incredibly hard in often dangerous condition , as the tragedy of the Seafield colliery disaster show . I be proud to be a trade unionist , and indeed union have a proud history in Fife because of our mining heritage . we have a proud industrial history too , of openness and connection to the wide world , where once we be a world leader in linoleum production . it be well know that economist Adam Smith be bear locally and write his hugely influential text " the Wealth of Nations " in Kirkcaldy . his book " the theory of Moral Sentiments " , write over 250 year ago , be less well - know but make significant observation about empathy between human being , include between those in country far apart . a lesson in our common humanity could not be any more important in today ' s deeply dangerous world . the people of Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy be rightly proud of our industrial past , but we know too that pride in the past do not allow our child to reach their potential . what my constituent want be a future to look forward to , with work that pay fairly , and it be the job of those of we elect to this House to make that possible . Fife have a housing emergency . I contrast our new UK Labour Government ' s programme to build 1 . 5 million new home in England with the unacceptable fact that we simply do not have enough home for all of the people who need they in Scotland . today , the NHS , which be under so much strain , be our big employer locally , and I pay tribute to the staff at the Victoria hospital in particular . mine be a family indebte to the NHS , as so many across this country be , but this Labour Government — and hopefully a Labour Scottish Government from 2026 — have so much to do to repair it . my constituency be also home to a significant polish community , whose presence be establish by brave war veteran unable to return home after fight the Nazis in world war two . those who seek to sow hatred and division in this country would do well to remember that many of we simply would not be here without immigration ; my own great grandfather be a polish immigrant . the polish community in my constituency be an example of the way that immigration so often enrich our community . in my previous work lead international development and humanitarian aid charity , I meet thousand of people force to flee their home for survival . among crowded syrian refugee camp , parch Nigerian internally displace person camp , and the unbearable horror be inflict on Gaza , I have see the impact of humanity at its bad . I have hug other mother , each of we with the same desire for our child , but each of we also with vastly different chance of ever achieve they simply because of an accident of birth — there , but for the grace of God , go I . I have witness what happen when international law be ignore , see how climate change ravage human ' ability to survive , and observe the impact of mistake make by this House . I have see the bad of humanity , but I have also see the good . I thank those I be lucky enough to serve alongside , especially the Nigerians , Lebanese and Palestinians , each of whom I be privileged to learn from . I particularly want to name my former colleague from Gaza : Fikr , Mahmoud , Mohammed , Motaz , Wasim , Ahmed , Rasha , Asma , Nawraz , Amal , Moe , Mahmoud , Ali , Haitham , Tarneem , Afnan , Khaled , Heba , Saeda and Ghada . they be the good of humanity , and they desperately need a ceasefire , justice , freedom and dignity . my life and political belief have be shape by the experience of my brother Ross , who be disabled . like so many , my family , and my mum in particular , have have to fight incredibly hard with and for Ross to access the support to which he should be entitle from our education , health , housing and social security system . disabled child and their family should not have to fight so hard . there be a fundamental flaw in our state that it require the parent of a disabled child to make it their life ' s work to access the service that should be their right . this must change . it be of enormous sadness to I that my dear dad be not here to see I become a Member of this House , have be take from we by cancer , as too many still be . I be a schoolgirl when he first bring I to this place , and we never imagine then that I might one day sit on these green Benches . I know he would swell with pride if he be here today . I thank my whole family and my friend for their love , and I thank everyone who have support I along the way . Most of all , I thank my amazing boy . to my husband and child , I say that I hope I will make you proud . you be the great gift I could ever have ask for . in the general election , Labour promise an end to chaos and division . I know that many of my constituent be weary of a Scotland that have be divide on the constitution for too long . instead , people want we to focus on fix our broken but beloved country , bring people together and build a well future . I will do all I can towards this goal . I call Markus Campbell - Savours to make his maiden speech . I congratulate everyone on their maiden speech . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Members for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) , for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) and for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , and the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) and for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) . I represent the new constituency of Penrith and Solway , which take in part of the old Carlisle , Copeland , Workington , and Penrith and the Border constituency . I therefore follow some truly great parliamentarian : Willie Whitelaw , a pillar of strength behind the Thatcher Government ; David Maclean , Lord Blencathra , who now excel in the tradition of likeable nuisance in the other place ; Baroness Sue Hayman , a champion of farming and rural affair whose skill will be put to good use on the Labour Benches ; Sir Tony Cunningham , a family friend ; my father , a fine mentor ; Rory Stewart , who now entertain Members , at least on the labour Benches ; Dr Neil Hudson , who have be re - elect as the Member for Epping Forest ; and Mark Jenkinson , who represent Workington from 2019 to 2024 — I may have profoundly disagree with he , but I must confess that he work hard for his constituent . I find myself slightly in awe at those member whose predecessor have disappear into the sunset . I will be see mine on a regular basis , but I promise to take any advice from they with grace . like the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , I have the privilege of represent a constituency in which I grow up . my grandfather bring my family to Cumbria in the 1950 , and his work as an engineer see he on the platform for the opening of Calder Hall , the world ' s first full - scale commercial nuclear power station . my family ' s love of Cumbria and the Lake district have endure ever since . I have have the pleasure of represent my home of Keswick on town and district council and , more recently , on the new Cumberland unitary authority . I step down from that council know that my former colleague will do their good to ensure that a challenging local government reorganisation be a success . as I begin my time in this place , I leave behind my work in the electrical contracting industry and my career as a contract manager — a role that see I work with many people in leasehold block management . it therefore seem apt that I make my maiden speech in this important debate . as a former electrician , it be not lose on I that the tragic event that unfold at Grenfell Tower be trigger by an electrical fault . it be now imperative that the sequence of event that follow set the ground for long - last reform that ensure these thing can never happen again . I commend the decision to create the Building Safety Regulator , with its focus on high - risk building . while many member rightly push for reform of the leasehold system and extend the right to manage , I hope the new regulator act as a defence against those whose only concern be keep build management cost down . Winston Churchill once say : " if you put two economist in a room , you get two opinion , unless one of they be Lord Keynes , in which case you get three opinion . " when it come to the interpretation of british standard affect electrical safety and fire safety , my view be that if you put two electrician in a room , you will get two opinion , but if you put the bill payer in the room with they , you will only get one . the regulator should ensure that any new rule be unambiguous and can be apply consistently . I have hear a number of maiden speech and do not wish to get into the unwinnable debate about whose constituency be the most beautiful . I will just take it as give that my constituency that take in the Solway Coast national landscape , part of the North Pennines national landscape and , not least , the north Lake district , include the Borrowdale valley , for which I have a deep love , be undoubtedly in the top 10 . however , the real beauty of my constituency be not in its architecture , coastline , lake or hill ; it be in the people . when I be first elect as a councillor , I be take aside by an experienced and recently retire parish clerk , who have a message for I : " it isn ' t politician who run thing around here ; it be the community . " she be right . I be in constant awe of the tireless effort that volunteer show in my community every day : the mountain rescue team , who keep we safe on the fell ; the Maryport Rescue volunteer , who run the independent lifeboat service on the Solway coast ; the flood action group , who hold our flood authority to account ; our community - lead housing trust , who excel in deliver home in rural community , where large housing association fail ; the community group in Ireby , Hesket Newmarket and Nenthead , fundraise to save vital community facility at the heart of their village ; our food hub volunteer ; church together , the Lions , the Rotarians and all the other group that give so much . they inspire I , and this politician ' s job must surely be to help they flourish . I head back to my constituency for the conference recess know that I have many issue to tackle . the Old Court House in Cockermouth , already half collapse into the River Cocker , lie empty , with little progress be make by its owner and other authority to make it safe . resident of Penrith have be plague for many year by a revolting odour from a local meat rendering plant . the infamous " Penrith pong " have be particularly strong over the summer month . rural home , many lack modern home insulation , be in desperate need of government investment to help permanently bring down energy bill . farmer be in despair , as trade deal have fail to deliver and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs struggle to implement its new payment scheme . the local health service be struggle to recruit the vital staff my community need to thrive . I be here in their service and to rebuild broken Britain , just as we promise we would during the election . I congratulate the hon . member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) and everyone else who have make their maiden speech today and welcome they to their place here . I rise today with a heavy heart as we remember the 72 life lose in the Grenfell Tower fire — an avoidable tragedy fuel by systemic neglect , corporate greed and an ideology that prioritise profit over people . I begin by share the call of Grenfell United for the removal of flammable cladding from building now , for sprinkler , for the Hillsborough law , and for speedy criminal prosecution of those whose negligence , greed and dishonesty kill 72 people . but there be something more here , which I urge hon . member to understand . the Grenfell Next of Kin group call this report " 10 kg of word on page " rather than justice . the anger that Grenfell survivor have express be an anger that many of we feel — that in Britain today , work class people be treat as expendable . Less than a year before the fire , the Grenfell Action Group warn that their " dangerous living condition " would cause " a catastrophic event . . . an incident that result in a serious loss of life . " they predict their own death , because they know how little anyone in power care about keep they alive . that be the inescapable conclusion of this report . building firm engage in " systematic dishonesty " — that be what the report say — to profit without ensure safety . some of they know that their insulation be a " rage inferno " , but they keep sell it anyway . after the early fire at Knowsley and Lakanal and after large - scale test warn of the danger of cladding , neither the British Government nor Kensington and Chelsea council come to help the resident of Grenfell . then , after the fire , a former Secretary of State responsible for housing , Lord Pickles , loudly tell the inquiry to not take up too much of his time . nobody seriously think that the resident of London ' s wealthy street would be so ignore , so derided , treat with such contempt for decade and leave to die . let we tell the truth about the society in which we live : when two billionaire drown on a submarine voyage to see the titanic , powerful country unite in a global rescue effort , but when poor people and persecute people drown in the english channel or burn in Grenfell Tower , we do not mobilise every single resource to save their life and bring they to safety . that be a kind of class war — a war on exploit and persecute people wherever in the world they be bear . Grenfell Tower be name after Sir Francis Grenfell , a general who carry out colonial violence in Ireland , Sudan and South Africa . when the british ruling class want cheap labour from place like those , it house worker in an unsafe building name after a man who may have kill their ancestor , and then ignore their warning and leave they to die . that be Grenfell Tower . resident have speak up beautifully in recent day of the community in the tower , and of how people stick together and look after the weak among they . they share the working - class value that we all should and they be entirely alien to the value that , unfortunately , rule in this society . the dead and the living deserve safe home for all . they deserve corporate and state accountability and a different kind of society . Grenfell ' s 72 dead be forever in our heart . thank you . I call Alex Ballinger to make his maiden speech . it be a pleasure to follow so many excellent maiden speech today , in particular that of my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) , whose constituency be definitely in the top five or top 10 most beautiful constituency . I be pleased to deliver my maiden speech today during this debate on build safety and resilience . after the tragic event at Grenfell Tower , the safety of our building have never be more important . many resident in my constituency live in tower block , and they will be pleased to see the Government take practical step to ensure that they can live in safety . I be honour to have be elect to represent the people of Halesowen in Parliament . I thank they for put their faith in I . however they vote , I be here to serve they . I would first like to thank my family , and in particular my wife , Nida . they have be incredibly supportive and patient as I have go through this campaign and my first week in the House . I be pleased to follow my predecessor , James Morris and Dame Sylvia Heal . James be the MP for Halesowen and Rowley Regis for 14 year . he be a hard - work constituency MP who champion mental health in Parliament and seek to protect the heritage of the town . he also sport a distinctive hairstyle , and be affectionately know in the constituency as Professor Snape . while we have our political difference , I think James be , like the " Harry Potter " character , one of the good guy in the end . from 1997 until 2010 , Halesowen and Rowley Regis be represent by Dame Sylvia Heal . a passionate campaigner for her constituent , Sylvia be easily recognise as she canvass the street of Halesowen in a bright red jacket . she also serve 10 year as Deputy Speaker , and have the dubious honour of be in the Chair when , for the first time in 400 year , protester storm the Floor of the Commons . the last time that happen , they be lead by King Charles I , but unlike in the 17th century , Sylvia restart the debate after only 20 minute , and even allow the protester to escape with their head . she be well love by her constituent , and they still remember she fondly . judge by the puzzled look on many member ' face when I introduce my constituency , I think that it be fair to say that not everyone have hear of Halesowen . well , Halesowen be a wonderful market town on the edge of the Black Country , and include the once influential Halesowen abbey . in the 13th century , Halesowen be large than Birmingham , and the abbey rule over land as far away as Wednesbury , Walsall and Warley . while the abbey ' s land be now diminish , Halesowen remain a juggernaut in the west midland . the whole constituency be at the very heart of the industrial revolution . Cradley Heath , Cradley and Quarry Bank be the centre of chainmake in the 19th century , but condition for worker be terrible , and in Cradley Heath in 1910 Mary Macarthur lead woman chainmaker on a 10 - week strike against starvation - level wage . her campaign lead to a doubling of woman ' s pay and help to establish the principle of a minimum wage in the UK . Mary would later stand for Parliament in Stourbridge , and nearly become the first woman to sit in the House of Commons . Mary Macarthur ' s campaign for woman ' s right and well working condition will be remember this Sunday at the woman chainmaker festival in Cradley Heath . new to the constituency be the lovely green suburb of Wollescote , which be home to the 19th - century industrialist Ernest Stevens . Ernest make his fortune manufacture kitchenware in Cradley Heath , and donate several park to the people of the area : Stevens Park in Wollescote , Stevens Park in Quarry Bank , and Mary Stevens Park in Stourbridge . Ernest be well know for his philanthropy , if not his imagination . I mention he because at the start of the century my great - grandad be one of his driver . I like to imagine he travel across the constituency , take his boss to work each morning . it be not just through live in the same community that I have follow in my ancestor ' footstep . my great - grandad , like generation after he , serve his country overseas . Wilfred Ballinger fight at the Somme in 1916 before be wound by shrapnel and be evacuate back to Stourbridge . his son , Frank Ballinger , serve in the Navy , and land to take part in the italian campaign in 1944 , and my dad , Robert Ballinger , spend 35 year in the Air Force , serve in Bosnia , Kosovo and Iraq . when both my brother and I follow in their footstep and be send to Afghanistan together in 2006 , we feel like we be continue the Ballinger family tradition . at the start of that tour , I perhaps do not realise the reality of conflict . I be remind of it during the election , when I meet Sue Crookes , the mother of the marine Jonathan Crookes , in Halesowen . I do not know Jon , but he be a Halesowen hero , who serve in Afghanistan and be tragically kill protect his comrade . have serve alongside brave servicemen and woman like Jonathan Crookes , I want to use my time in this House to ensure that we be do everything that we can to support our armed force , and the friend and family they leave behind . when I leave the marine , I become an aid worker , help to deliver supply to Syria , and help refugee to rebuild their life in neighbouring country . in what feel like come full circle , three year ago I play a part in the evacuation of Afghanistan when it fall to the Taliban . my team evacuate hundred of vulnerable people out of the country and to safety over the border in Pakistan . many of they have work alongside the british 10 year early , and many be at risk simply for who they be . I particularly remember help the dozen of young woman from the Afghanistan youth football team , flee punishment at the hand of the Taliban . I be pleased to say that they be all now safely here in the UK , rebuild their life . I know that debate on refugee can become heated in this House , but I hope to use my time here to advocate for all victim of conflict , whoever they may be . I know that the people of Halesowen will stand up for the vulnerable , because I have see it myself . when I visit lifecentral church , I be humble to see the help that it give to struggle young people , asylum seeker and the old generation . I be honour to know member of the Halesowen and Dudley Yemeni Community Association , whose voluntary service be recently recognise with a Queen ' s award . I have visit hard - work volunteer man food bank at Cradley Heath Community Link , Manna House Pantry , and Holy Trinity in Old Hill . that be just a snapshot of the charitable work happen across the constituency , which be full of passionate people dedicate to serve their community . as I begin my time in this place , I know that I want to continue that tradition of service — the service that my family have give in uniform , the service that the people of Halesowen have demonstrate to their community time and again , and the service that this Government will deliver as we rebuild the country . I thank the people of Halesowen again for elect I as their representative . I have serve my country for the past 20 year , and I will serve they as their Member of Parliament with the same dedication . may I also pay tribute to the Grenfell family at this very difficult time , follow the recently publish report ? my thought be also with the family of those affect by the fire in Slough and east London . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) and other for their excellent maiden speech today . I thank the Minister for her explanation of Government policy , and for the reassurance that she have give we . the issue of building and fire safety be important to read resident , so I will mention a few local matter and ask the Minister few brief question . in the year since Grenfell , I have be constantly remind and aware of the awful briefing that I have from Royal Berkshire Fire and Rescue Service immediately after the tragedy . it be sober and will stay with I for many , many year . I be tell of the scale of the problem in our county , not just in Reading but in other town such as Slough , Wokingham and Bracknell . what I hear from the fire service about the scale of the problem that it be uncover , and the serious threat to human life from build safety issue , be incredible . to give the House some idea of the problem , which relate to clad and other issue , the fire service explain that it have discover hole in what should have be safe partition firewall , and dangerous cladding in building across the county , and that it would take a very long time to carry out assessment across the whole of our county — just one english county — to fully understand the risk to resident , not just in tall building but , as hon . member have mention , in low - rise flat below the limit set for some of the measure . the service set out other problem , include wooden cladding , poorly design fire door and the need for wake watch . incredible work follow on those issue over a number of year . it have take a huge amount of work locally and , I be sure , across the country to tackle that awful legacy . there have be significant delay in address many of the problem . although they be uncover some year ago , it take a long time to tackle they under the previous Government ' s watch . in many case , local resident be leave wait several year for remediation to privately own or housing association block . I welcome the measure that the Minister outline to speed up that work and continue to press forward . some issue be link to local supply - chain problem . I thank the many responsible owner who take early action , include a number of housing association , and indeed some responsible private owner , in my constituency . however , like other hon . member , I have discover continue , often very serious , problem with some overseas owner and management company . I have have some truly awful casework involve resident who have speak in graphic term about the pressure that they have be put under because of these issue . there be young couple who find it difficult to get to sleep at night because they know that they be live in a block in which there be dangerous cladding . the overseas management company be not take action to tackle it quickly enough . to make matter bad , they could not sell their property and have to live there , in some case face very high cost to remove the cladding . I welcome the Minister ' s action on all those thing , but I wish that the previous Government have speed up their measure to tackle this huge problem across the country . I have question for the Minister . I appreciate that other member have yet to speak so I will be brief , but I want to hear more from she about action to tackle management company base overseas , and how she plan to roll that out . I appreciate that might be difficult . I hope to hear more about the action that the Government will take to tackle manufacturer of dangerous cladding , though I realise that in many case they be overseas company . I welcome the Minister ' s action , and the vigour with which she have pursue this issue in a short period of time . I recognise her very genuine commitment , and know that this problem be serious in her constituency in inner London , too . I thank our new colleague again for their excellent maiden speech . I call Peter Lamb to make his maiden speech . I be grateful to be give the opportunity to speak on such an important topic . much like everyone else , I have enjoy the various maiden speech give today . they have certainly give I a detailed lesson in local history and geography . I be startled to discover just how many constituency apparently think they be the good . we will see if that survive the next few minute . I begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , Henry Smith . Henry and I have many area of profound disagreement over the many year we spar together , but one surprising area of overlap be that we be both vegetarian . animal right be clearly an incredibly important topic to he , and his parliamentary record show that he serve that cause diligently throughout his many year in Westminster , pursue it at every possible level . in my time here , I hope to pursue my policy priority just as diligently . I also pay tribute to my labour predecessor , Laura Moffatt . I have know Laura for many year . in fact , the first time I ever enter the Chamber be when I be a 15 - year - old student at Holy Trinity , on work experience ; I sit in that far corner , which I understand be not correct procedure . the support Laura have give I over the year have be incredibly significant ; it contribute greatly to my be here today . after many year of hard work , this year we have an amazing win for the red in Crawley — I be of course speak about Crawley Town ' s league two play - off win . it be a fantastic result . for I , as one of the town ' s foremost cheerleader , it be great that for one day , we be absolutely everywhere . if people type " Crawley " into Google , firework pop up in their browser . Crawley be my home . it be where I be bear and where I go to school . it be where I have fight on behalf of my community for the last 14 year as a councillor , council leader and now as an MP . I honestly believe that Crawley be not only the good constituency in the UK , but the good town outright . our economy be a powerhouse , deliver one of the great concentration of employment in the country . we be one of the UK ' s most visit constituency , even though , frustratingly , every time we be ask where we be from , we still have to add , " it ' s where Gatwick airport be . " Crawley be home to Mark Lemon , who during his tenure as editor of Punch magazine inspire fear on both side of the House . we be home to pioneer electrical engineer Dame Caroline Haslett . more recently , Crawley have give Britain one of our lead journalist in Dan Walker , one of our most influential band in the Cure , and the nation ' s favourite — or at least most ubiquitous — comedian in Romesh Ranganathan . it have give we Gareth Southgate , England ' s great football manager since Alf Ramsey , and victorious Paralympians Jodie Grinham and Katie - George Dunlevy . thank to the long history of municipal socialism in the town — our early father and mother include Alf Pegler , Bert Crane and Brenda Smith — we be bless with fantastic facility , such as k2 , the Hawth and Tilgate Park , home to many of my happy memory , include marry the love of my life . I feel privileged to live in a town that have so much to offer . however , before member pack in their constituency and move down to mine , let I say that Crawley be not without its challenge . despite so many accomplished Crawleyites , social mobility in the town be the low in the south - east . I often have to get into real argument with northern mp to demonstrate that Crawley have some of the low social mobility in the country , far low than most of the north . over recent year , rise deprivation have mean that exceptionally high level of employment have do little to assuage poverty in the constituency , and over a third of Crawley ' s child be now grow up in poverty . early this year , Crawley borough council become the first council in the country to declare a housing emergency . I love my town , and I be here to fight for it and solve those and other issue face the constituency . if there be one issue that I intend to prioritise above all other during my time in this House , it be housing , which be not only essential to solve Crawley ' s immediate challenge but part of the history of the town . I fear that this part of my speech may echo many of the sentiment express early by my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) . Crawley be mention in Domesday Book and we be home to an Anglo - Saxon church , but the town as it be know today begin in 1946 with the passage of the New Towns Act , an amazing achievement that I believe rival labour ' s creation of the NHS . it have be intend that Crawley would be the first of the post - war new town , but unfortunately , Stevenage pip we to that title follow a last - minute legal challenge to the development — some thing never change . in create the town , planner draw inspiration from the garden city movement , design each neighbourhood to be its own self - contain village incorporate a neighbourhood centre with its own school , GP , community centre and shopping parade , and foster a strong sense of neighbourhood identity . at the centre of the town be a modern town centre , and to the north be one of the country ' s large industrial estate , locate away from residential area where pollution might affect people and provide skilled employment in light industry . across the town , those planner build comprehensive infrastructure , green urban space and high - quality council housing , ensure that resident from every walk of life could move to Crawley . if you talk to that first generation of new towner , they talk about be able to walk down the street and pick out which of the house they want . imagine if that be the case today ! they could do that because the new town development corporation be grant the power to buy land cheaply at agricultural price , and the ability to grant themselves plan permission to deliver at pace . I believe that the model that work almost 80 year ago remain the most effective mean through which new housing can be deliver , in term of quantity , quality and affordability . indeed , the only period over the past century in which the growth in housing supply exceed the growth in demand be when the UK be build the new town . the lesson of history — certainly recent history — be clear : no matter how easy it be to get planning permission , builder will not build housing if that will result in a drop in house price . direct delivery can overcome that obstacle . I be proud to campaign in the election on a Labour platform champion the development of new town as an alternative to the high - cost , low - quality urban extension and infille that we have all too often see . I be pleased that the Government have already announce their first site , and I hope that many more will now follow , use the same mechanism develop and deploy by Nye Bevan to bring an end to the appalling housing condition that the country face in 1946 . be that not what today ' s debate be about ? in 1946 , the country face not only a shortage of housing but city fill with slum housing in the most appalling condition . a failure to learn the lesson of history have result in far too many home today pose a danger to those live in they , from the horror of Grenfell Tower to the mould that eat away daily at people ' s health . the step need to address those risk to life be urgent and necessary . we must put resident ' safety back at the heart of housing , but we can not forget that — now as in 1946 — for too many , the choice remain between dangerous housing and no housing at all . with an intense programme of housing construction base on the new town model of the 1940 , we have the chance to bring an end to the housing shortage that affect so many of our constituency , mine include . in the process , we can once again ensure that everyone have the dignity of a safe place that they can call home . I call Tracy Gilbert to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I in this extremely important debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) and for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) on their touching and move speech . I really be proud to be one of the scottish delegate . in the tradition of maiden speech , I begin by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Deidre Brock , who represent the constituency for nine year — the first woman to do so . I wish she and her team well in their future endeavour . I would also like to pay tribute to Mark Lazarowicz , who represent the seat from 2001 until 2015 , and who continue to advocate for human right , asylum seeker and the environment . the newly extend boundary once again include Muirhouse , part of the constituency previously represent by the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) . this part of the constituency hold a special place in my heart as it neighbour West Pilton , where I live and where my stepchildren go to school and attend Greater Pilton childcare centre during the 1990 . it be a groundbreaking facility provide family with access to affordable , flexible childcare — a model that I hope we can learn from and replicate . when we live in West Pilton , our flat be riddle with damp . we have to run a dehumidifier constantly , and it would produce litre of water daily . our child ' s health suffer , and paint over black mould be normal . we be lucky : we be eventually able to move . however , the flat be still there , and I would suggest that the issue remain too . housing resilience must be a priority when building and retrofit home . access to safe and secure home be a fundamental right , and although it be a devolved issue in Scotland , we must learn lesson and work together across government to deliver affordable , healthy , energy - efficient home for all , which must include the removal of unsafe cladding . I also place on record my sincere thank to Malcolm Chisholm , who help we at this time . he represent Edinburgh North and Leith in this place from 1992 to 2001 , when he move to the Scottish Parliament , before stand down in 2016 . he be why I join the Labour party . his reputation and integrity , his achievement and his passion for the people of Edinburgh North and Leith be rightly still recognise , and indeed he remain an inspiration to I and many other in our community and beyond . Madam Deputy Speaker , I think the record may have to be correct as I have hear many hon . member from across the House make an error by declare that their constituency be the great in the country . they be of course mistaken . as many of those who have already visit will know , Edinburgh North and Leith can surely claim that accolade . from our amazing shop on Princes Street , George Street and the new St James Quarter , as well as our fantastic independent store , we have the good retail across the country . we have world - class restaurant , caf é s and bar — from the Johnnie Walker whisky experience , which I be pleased to visit over the summer recess with my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister , to the Lind & Lime gin distiller , where my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be welcome , and the Port of Leith Distillery , the country ' s first vertical distillery . I extend a welcome to all my hon . friend to visit and join I for a dram . Edinburgh North and Leith be steep in history from Calton hill to the New Town , another UNESCO world heritage site , and onwards to Stockbridge , the home of Golden Wonder crisp ; Newhaven , with its harbour and proud fishing history ; and Western Harbour , reclaim from the sea . we be home to the Royal Yacht Britannia and the Royal Botanic Garden in Inverleith . Leith link have claim to be the birthplace of golf . and although the stadium be just outside the boundary , the identity of our football team , Hibs , be Leith to the core . I can confirm that , as the song suggest , there be indeed much " Sunshine on Leith " , although not always on match day . our famous Port of Leith — yes , the bar , but also the port itself — have see the coming and going of ship from all over the world , bring with they story , good and people that have shape our identity . the historic landmark remind we of our rich heritage and the importance of preserve it for the future . this be evidence through our proud industrial and political history , be where Rose ' s lime juice be invent to prevent sailor from get scurvy , and where Salvesen have a whaling business . in the present day , our port be reinvent itself for the next generation , with the green energy job of the future and with business such as Vestas and nearby Nova deliver wind and tidal energy . stitch into our community be so many site of natural beauty , with the Water of Leith flow through the heart of our constituency and be hug by the firth of Forth . with the world ' s large art festival on our doorstep , we house the Scottish National Portrait Gallery , Leith theatre , Customs House , North Edinburgh Arts , Edinburgh playhouse and the new Dunard concert centre , which be currently under construction . alongside our film and music studio , we be home to many author , artist , musician and poet . I could go on , and I possibly have for too long already , but this be by no mean an exhaustive list , and it do not even begin to recognise the wealth of talent and diversity in our community . I have yet to mention what make Edinburgh North and Leith truly great : simply , it be our people . be elect to this House to represent my home and my community be truly the honour of my life . I would like to thank everyone who trust I with their vote . for those who do not , I hope that during my time in this place I can evidence that I will champion our home . I understand that there be so much work to do to ensure that all can prosper as , sadly , for far too many people , Edinburgh be a tale of two city . too many have be leave behind and suffer through decade of neglect . poverty remain stubbornly high and be a reality for so many child . in our city , food bank have become the norm , where people already struggle to feed themselves , struggle to feed those who have even less than they . we have a housing emergency with more than 3 , 000 homeless people , many of whom be family with small child live in hotel room with no kitchen , resort to cooking meal each day from a kettle . the scourge of addiction be etch on people ' s face , clear for all to see . while our public service be underfunde and break , our community be resilient . I think of people such as Pauline Bowie , recently honour for her work , and the compassion of all the unpaid volunteer and low - wage carer who work tirelessly each day for our community . our strength lie in the people of Edinburgh North and Leith , who be know for their warmth , compassion and determination . change people ' s life by offer hope be why this Government be elect , and it be why we must deliver . my journey start , like all of we , before I be bear . I be bear in Rottenrow maternity hospital in Glasgow . yes , the House have not misheard I : there be a maternity hospital call Rottenrow . when I be a baby , and before I have a voice , decision be make that would change and shape my life forever . I be lucky then , as I be now , to have people who love and nurture I . although my mum , dad and gran be no long live , they would be very proud , as well as very surprised , that I be in this place , as I leave school at 15 with few qualification and leave home not long after . it take I many year to find my place in this world , and I be so grateful for the love of my stepchildren David and Zoe , for Zak and for my wife Melanie , for her love and support every day . to I , they be home . I thank all my friend , party activist , colleague and love one who have support I in my life and on my journey lead to this place . as a child grow up in the ' 80 in a council house in a mining town , with hindsight it seem inevitable that I would end up as a proud product of the Labour and trade union movement . in my work life — from a youth training scheme in the city council to be a housing officer and trade unionist , as well as through my voluntary work on the Children ' s Panel , in drug and alcohol and mental health — advocacy have always be my passion . I have learn through life that when other give up on you , it be easy to give up on yourself . my promise to everyone in Edinburgh North and Leith be that I will not give up , and I will fight for everyone ' s right to thrive . I will be their voice in this place , and as be Leith ' s motto , I will always persevere . I call Richard Quigley to make his maiden speech . may I associate myself with the previous remark regard the Grenfell disaster and send my sympathy to all those affect ? I congratulate all the other member on their eloquent and informative maiden speech , especially my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) , with whom I will happily share probably more than a dram of whisky as we argue over the first two place for good constituency , which be , obviously , Isle of Wight West . first , I pay tribute to Annie Caddick , who win silver in the mixed double scull at the Paralympics . we be all very proud of she . I also pay tribute to my predecessor Bob Seely for his seven year of service to the Isle of Wight as MP for the then large constituency in the country . his interest in all thing chinese and Russian be legendary on the island . my dad be not a toolmaker , but he be a conservative councillor . [ hon . member : " Ooh . " ] I have get the sympathy of everyone now , apart from those on the Conservative Benches . while we do not agree on politic , he and my mum ' s many year as councillor do teach I that politics be about service . it be also the reason I be stand on this side of the Chamber , although there be rather more room on the Opposition Benches on most day . my grandad Dennis , a lifelong labour supporter , would be very proud that I be stand on this side . from be the large constituency , the Isle of Wight be now two of the small constituency : Isle of Wight West and Isle of Wight East . I stand here as the very proud Member for Isle of Wight West and the first - ever Labour MP to represent the island . I look forward to work with my colleague , the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) to improve the life of all islander , although it would appear he have get the early ferry home today , so he be ahead of I . it turn out that the island be pretty good at first . in 1660 , Freshwater resident Robert Hooke develop Hooke ' s law of elasticity . in 1843 , the UK ' s first amusement park open at Blackgang Chine , and be still open today , albeit , for those who know it , much small , as it be slip into the sea — that be not part of the attraction , by the way . Marconi establish the first wireless station on the island in 1897 , and Saunders - Roe build the first ever hovercraft in East Cowes in 1958 . we still have a hovercraft service to this day . the first Isle of Wight Festival be in 1968 , but in 1970 the crowd be so large that the following year an Act of Parliament be pass ban such large - scale gathering . the first consumer electric car — the Enfield 8000 — be build in Cowes . in 2009 four - year - old Daisy Morris discover a new specie of dinosaur — not in the council but actually on Atherfield beach — know as the pterosaur . we even have our first prize - win alpaca name Hip Hip Hooray at West Wight Alpacas . I be also the first owner of a chip shop to become an MP . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] there will be free pickle egg for hon . member when they come to the island . of course , we be also know for sailing . a special thank to the RNLI and independent lifeboat that put their life at risk to save ours . the island be home to some fantastic produce that grace the menu and table of some great eating establishment across the country — many will have try they without even realise . there be fantastic tomato from Isle of Wight Tomatoes , asparagus and sweetcorn from the Arreton valley and Harvey Browns farm , beef from Cheverton farm , cherry from Godshill , and our own cheesemaker . we also have industry . we make blade for Vestas wind turbine , we make aircraft part , and the Thames Clipper boat that hon . member see from the Terrace be make at Wight shipyard in East Cowes . we have a thriving art culture . the Trinity , Quay Arts and Apollo theatre , where a young Anthony Minghella start his act career , be still very active . but it be the people who make the Isle of Wight . it be community that make it a special place to live and the envy of town and village across the country . whether it be the Saturday morning tea and cake in Niton , the regular event in Yarmouth , the community - run sport centre in Freshwater , the warm space in Northwood , the volunteer at Cowes food bank , the model train enthusiast who open up to the community , the amazing work of Pan Together in Newport or the inclusivity of East Cowes , as well as the many charity — a special mention to the Ellen MacArthur Cancer Trust — community be the heart of the island . when I make it to this place , Isle of Wight West be refer to , along with many other , as a " bonus " seat — that appear to be code for " oh , f — fair play , you win ! " but we win due to the hard work over the past five year of 120 volunteer , return I as the only Labour councillor and now the first Labour MP for the island . I would like to thank every single one of they , but special thank must go to my agent Phil Attfield , whose commitment be second to none . extra special thank must go to my wife Leah and my two child and grandchild for their unwavering support and for put up with I over the last few year . as rosy a picture as I paint of our wonderful island and how much we contribute to british life , we have all the same problem as coastal and rural town , include poor access to NHS dentistry , GPs and adult social care , SEND education in crisis and a severe lack of secure and adequate home . those problem be exacerbate by our be an island . imagine be charge between £ 50 and £ 300 every time you drive to a neighbouring county — travel from Derby to Nottingham , from Southampton to Salisbury or from Oxford to Aylesbury would become prohibitive . ferry travel across the Solent have become unreliable and ferociously expensive in the last few year , so much so that it be now a barrier to opportunity . have to rely on expensive , privately run ferry mean that school trip do not happen and NHS appointment on the mainland be miss , or patient be so worried that they travel the night before and pay for a hotel . my predecessor mention ferry 23 time in seven year , but ferry be such a huge issue to I and my constituent — I be guess my hon . friend have not realise this ! — that I have promise to mention ferry and cross - solent ferry travel at every opportunity , regardless of the topic . I might even get past 23 time in this speech . [ laughter . ] I hope the House forgive I if I do . I be a husband , dad , grandad , walker of our three dog and an enthusiastic visitor to island pub . my focus while in this place will be on find solution to the issue that I have outline . my job as MP be to champion the island in this House , to ensure that I represent all my constituent and that the island be no long a forget outpost and get its fair share of support from my Government , as well as action on ferry . [ laughter . ] I extend a warm invitation to everyone on the estate to visit the Isle of Wight , and I make a plea to Ministers to visit . I spend some time in the first few week talk to the Doorkeepers and security and restaurant staff . I explain that I find this place to be one of the friendly workplace I have ever step foot in — bear in mind I be self - employ . the response be that this have change as a workplace very recently . when ask how recently , they all reply , " the fifth of July . " I be extremely proud to stand here today with my colleague as part of a Labour Government dedicate to service , and I look forward to be part of a Government who build a future for the Isle of Wight and the country . I thank the Minister for her speech . we have hear fantastic maiden speech today , especially from my comrade , my hon . friend the Members for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) and for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) , and of course my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) . parent always want well for their child , and he achieve it by join the Labour party . [ laughter . ] a slow burner . I want to start by pay tribute to the victim and survivor of the Grenfell fire , as well as the wide Grenfell community . I thank the brave firefighter who go to work every day all over the country to keep our community safe . Theirs be a genuine public service and their expertise and selflessness deserve more than just respect , start with funding and investment to see they properly resource at their work . the contribute factor to the Grenfell tragedy can be see in constituency and community all over Britain . we see they every day when local authority have their budget cut and the service they provide be negatively impact . of course , it be not just local authority that feel the pain of budget cut . our emergency service be no stranger to savage underfunding . in Scotland , more than 1 , 000 scottish fire and rescue staff have leave the service in the last decade . the Scottish Government have call on the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service to find £ 36 million - worth of saving by 2027 — saving be the more palatable , yet misleading , name for cut . credit must go to firefighter and their union in Scotland , because they be protest against the cut that will see hundred of job lose and fire appliance take off the run . this relentless underfunding , whether to essential public service or in building regulation , lead to immiserated and impoverished community that face heighten danger . the topic of this debate be highly relevant to an issue in my constituency , as 102 domestic property in Clackmannanshire have be identify as have reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , include roughly 2 % of the council ' s housing stock . last October , 30 homeowner in Tillicoultry receive a knock on their door inform they that they have just two hour to gather their belonging and evacuate their property . I can only imagine the stress that those people must have feel . understandably , the confusion they feel at such news mean that many leave behind important document such as drive licence and passport , as well as personal belonging and precious family heirloom on which , frankly , a monetary price can not be put . nearly a year on , those homeowner still have not be grant access to retrieve their possession . among the resident impact by RAAC , I meet a couple who have live in their flat for 40 year . this hard - work couple have achieve the dream of home ownership ; when they finally pay off the mortgage on their ex - council flat , they describe it as a moment of immense pride and achievement . those emotion have be replace with anxiety , despair and , in no small measure , anger — anger at the insurance company that tell resident that there be no obligation to cover such thing , as they say that RAAC be not a name peril or insure cost . after evacuation , some of the homeowner find themselves place in hotel . some choose to stay with family or friend . some have to present as homeless and be relocate to Clackmannanshire council ' s temporary accommodation . some be relocate to bed and breakfast accommodation in Kirkcaldy in Fife , a town 31 mile away from Tillicoultry . what a situation to be in for those homeowner who work locally , have child in school or look after elderly relative . nearly a year on and those constituent live a life in limbo : some be lead a nomadic existence , go from property to property ; some feel like a burden on their friend and family ; some tell I their physical and mental health have suffer ; and some have tell I that they be stare into the abyss , that their golden year of retirement have be snatch away because of the financial impact of what have happen to they . but all of they be unite by the anguish of not have somewhere to put down root and call home . the ever - reduce budget provide to local authority be likely to mean that the solution my raac - impact constituent will have to be a collaborative effort . to reiterate , Clackmannanshire council , like so many local authority , as well as the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service , know about budget cut . with housing be a devolved matter and the Scottish Government announce half a billion pound ' worth of cut only last week , I fear the Scottish Government will not right this wrong either . I say that with no criticism of the Scottish Government . my constituent do not want finger - pointing ; they want action . I warmly welcome the resetting of the relationship between the Scottish Government and this Labour Government . this new positive working relationship be exactly the approach my constituent from Tillicoultry will need for they to receive the equitable solution and justice they deserve . with that , I hope the Minister will meet I to discuss possible solution to the benefit of my constituent . I congratulate all colleague who have make their maiden speech today . it be a massive relief once you have do it , so congratulation to they all . this be a really important debate not just for the constituent of colleague who have speak already , but for my constituent too . I want to echo many of the point that colleague have make so far . I will speak briefly . the Grenfell Tower inquiry publish last week criticise a " poorly run " , " complacent " Government Department that have " fail to act " . there be 93 leaseholder at no . 1 London Road in Newcastle - under - Lyme who be live in constant fear that history may repeat itself . back in 2022 , leaseholder at no . 1 London Road be make aware that an external survey have highlight significant fire safety concern over the building ' s cladding and that urgent action be need . the site be approve for government - fund renovation , but over two year later , the previous Government have fail to act to protect the safety of my constituent . it get bad . on top of live in constant fear of a fire break out , the leaseholder have be leave to foot the bill of premium insurance cost due to the building ' s safety concern . five year ago , the insurance premium be £ 20 , 000 . today , it have rise to £ 570 , 000 . as a result , leaseholder at no . 1 London Road in Newcastle - under - Lyme be be force to borrow money and some have declare bankruptcy . I be sure the Minister will agree with I that this situation be completely unacceptable and can not go on . I hope he will find time to meet I — I know other colleague have seek such meeting , too — because we need to ensure that this Government act where the previous Government fail . with the leave of the House , I will close this debate for his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . it have be a very constructive debate , with a wide range of contribution from member . I congratulate all member who make their maiden speech . it be strike that they cover a huge range of different issue which have be debate and will be debate in this Parliament . I be particularly strike by the expertise show in area as diverse as local government , housing , electronic and support for refugee , all of which , I be sure , will play a significant part in the future . I would also like to put on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) for his very entertaining maiden speech . the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) make some observation about the Hackitt review and the liability of construction material manufacturer for the consequence of significant problem in the building in which their material be use . as the Minister say , the £ 5 . 1 billion building safety fund , which be put in place in the previous Parliament , be a significant step towards address those concern , but it be clear that that be just one example of the many issue that need to be address . I have a list of point to put to the Minister , and I hope we will be able to work constructively together as we take forward a variety of legislation . a couple of member touch on personal evacuation plan . a consultation take place in 2022 , in which a wide variety of stakeholder be invite to express their view . a key concern raise by the Local Government Association — I declare an interest as a parliamentary vice - president of that organisation — be that current legislation imply that there be a duty on local authority and social housing provider to anticipate , without have to be ask or inform by resident , the need of those who may require special arrangement for evacuation in the event of an emergency . it be clear from feedback across the sector that , where there be no expectation that a tenant or an occupier will advise a particular individual or authority , that present a significant challenge . I suggest to Ministers that as they bring forward the Government ' s response , that issue be address with a high degree of clarity , so that everybody know their responsibility and where they stand . I be strike by observation make by a number of member about particular challenge , include issue with fire door and latent defect in building , which may not be spot at the time of a building regulation inspection . I have personal experience of work in a local authority that commission a school ; we discover afterwards that the fire door , which look robust and solid , only go up as far as the suspend ceiling that have be instal by the contractor . in such an example , the individual do the building inspection may need to have a significant part of the building take apart so that they can carry out their duty and see what need to be do . we need to ask ourselves how we can ensure that that enforcement be see as reasonable by contractor and can be resource effectively by local authority , so that latent defect in item such as fire door and fire stopping do not arise and create risk that simply can not be effectively manage for the future . a number of member make reference to the long - term history of the current set of building safety challenge . I be well aware , have be in local government throughout that period , that the approach take by the previous Labour Government be to create arm ' s length management organisation for housing . some member , include the hon . member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) , make particularly positive reference to the last Labour Government ' s retrofit programme . I simply urge member , as they begin to think how they would wish to resource some of this work in the public sector building stock , to ensure that we do not see a return of that approach : " let ' s create arm ' s length management organisation , load they with the debt so it isn ' t on the Government ' s book , and then expect they to carry out the work . " the number of arm ' s length management organisation have diminish . there be a time , under a previous Labour Government , when local authority could not access that funding unless they set up an arm ' s length management organisation . a small number of those organisation remain , but the vast majority of local authority area have determine that it be more efficient to do this work directly and in - house . have a high degree of control , visibility and accountability for that work be a step forward , so I urge those who might be tempt by the view that arm ' s length body be the way to leverage additional funding into the sector without it appear directly as a cost to Government to avoid that approach . we should be absolutely clear about the route for the provision of those resource , and about the accountability for they . in her maiden speech , the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) make reference to flooding as an example of an additional issue that give rise to build safety and resilience challenge . although it be not touch on in today ' s debate , we also need to reflect that this House have in the past have to get to grip with issue such as the impact of legionella and the significant building regulation change need to ensure that very vulnerable resident be not place at risk by a failure to carry out the proper inspection of build safety system , and have have to ensure that building regulation and instal system be function as they should to keep people safe from that particular risk . this wide - range debate have touch on many different element of the building safety and resilience world , and I hope that that will inform Ministers ' thinking . however , I have a particular question on which I want to press they for an answer . at the beginning of the debate , we hear from the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) , about the decision to return to , or enable , the use of the EU standard relate to construction material . I know that mention of EU standard have a trigger effect on some member ; it do not have that impact on I , because I be a strong supporter of close co - operation with our neighbour . I think that the Minister be probably refer to the write ministerial statement of 2 September , in which the Government announce the decision to remove the end date that have previously apply — the date by which CE - mark construction material could be sell within the UK market — and to allow those product to continue to be supply to that market with no end date . that strike I as a reasonable decision , but I should like to have a specific assurance on one point . the EU regulation on the fire safety of construction product date from 2015 , and those be the relevant regulation apply to product that meet the CE - mark standard . that be , of course , before the Grenfell Tower disaster occur . UK regulation be update in response to the disaster by the previous Government , in 2018 , and take account of the specific risk relate to construction material that be identify in the initial phase of the report . may I ask the Minister to assure the House , from the Dispatch Box , that follow the Government ' s decision to set aside the end date by which only the CE mark be require and to allow UK standard to be effectively set aside , the standard of the product that be import to the UK meet at least the 2018 UK post - Grenfell fire safety standard ? otherwise , there be a risk that product that we would not be satisfied to see instal in building and that have give rise to serious concern in the past may continue to be supply to the market because they meet those EU standard , even though they may not meet the new UK standard . many of my constituent be extremely concerned for their safety . they be live in constant fear because of build safety and resilience issue . I be sure the shadow Minister agree that the pace of remediation have be too slow in the seven year since the Grenfell tragedy . do he also agree that firm action need to be take by developer , freeholder , manufacturer and other organisation , and that the Government must push to ensure that the pace of remediation be quicken ? I entirely agree about the need to ensure that this work happen apace . during the debate , the contribution from the like of the hon . member for Sheffield South East and for Runcorn and Helsby ( Mike Amesbury ) demonstrate the complexity of some of the issue with which government of all party have wrestle over the year . I have the insulation material that be identify in the Grenfell report in my own home , because in certain application it be consider to be within building regulation . we know that this be not a straightforward process , and we need to ensure that building regulation have the absolute clarity that local authority require . that be why I press the Minister on this point : can we , as a House , be confident that the consequence of that write ministerial statement will not be a risk of material that do not meet the standard that we impose in 2018 be import and sell into the UK market ? it be clear that there will always be a debate , not just in the context of housing but in the context of any complex public service in this country , between those who think that the good approach for regulation be to specify the outcome that we want to see — we want the resident to be safe in their home , we want the child to be safe in the child ' s home and we want the patient to be safe in hospital ; that be very similar to the approach take in the aviation sector , which be mention early — and those who argue that the good approach be for Parliament and other relevant authority to specify the precise safety feature that we wish to see instal . each of those approach have strength and weakness . the previous government , particularly in the early year , be keen to focus on the safety outcome that be be pursue rather than to specify individual measure that have to be take , partly out of concern that those individual measure might not be as effective in practice as they need to be . it be clear from the contribution by member of all party that they understand the complexity of this debate . the Minister will have to make decision as we consider the future of building regulation . do Parliament specify that there have be a sprinkler system in one building , but a mister system in another ? be we go to specify that there have to be a dry riser in one type of building , and a wet riser in another type of building ? or be those simply matter that we prefer to leave to local building control service , while specify the level of safety that we expect to achieve ? all of these be important element in this complex debate . as I say in opening for his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , we be determined to carry forward the work that we do in the last Parliament , largely in partnership with Labour Members , on fire safety and building safety . those piece of legislation inevitably require the current Government to provide guidance to local authority , build control service , builder , construction firm and other part of the sector . by work together constructively to support the effective implementation of those measure and provide absolute clarity on the expectation , we will achieve our shared aim of ensure that all our constituent know that the building in which they live and work , and in which they be educate and receive medical treatment , meet the relevant safety standard and be environment and place in which they can safely go about their daily business . I call the Minister . this have be an important debate on the safety of our residential building and , more importantly , the safety of the resident who call those building home . the final report of the Grenfell Tower inquiry set out the appalling failure of the industry and successive government . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister set out in his statement to the House , we apologise on behalf of the state to each and every one of the bereaved family and survivor , and to the immediate Grenfell community . we will demand responsibility for build safety — responsibility from this government and responsibility across the industry . too many building still have unsafe cladding , and the pace of remediation have be too slow . like many colleague in the House , I be in this Chamber seven year ago . have we say to ourselves then that we would still be in the same situation seven year later , I think we would have consider that we have fail . that be very much the case , and this Government intend to address the failure . as I say , too many building have unsafe cladding , and the funding be there . there be no excuse for a building owner not to enter a cladding scheme for which they be eligible . we will accelerate effort to bring all remain building into remediation scheme , and empower regulator and local authority to act , include by consider new legislation . for good reason , much of this debate have be about safety rather than resilience , but as the Minister with responsibility for local resilience , I want to make the point that we be look very closely at resilience at both national and local level in response to the Grenfell Tower inquiry and the inquiry into the covid pandemic . we be look at way in which we can response to crisis , and the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster be lead a review of resilience , which will include work with the devolved government , regional mayor , local leader and local resilience partnership . again , the report have say that we ought be do that . we be look at the recommendation very carefully , and make sure that local area be empower and have the capacity to respond in time of crisis . I thank the Minister for give way on the point about resilience . obviously , firefighter and the FBU be key stakeholder in resilience work . I want to ask a question that I ask early about the statutory advisory body in response to Grenfell : what be the Government ' s timetable for develop that and get it on board ? I be grateful to the hon . member for her question . I be the shadow Fire Minister before the election , and I be very proud to get into our manifesto the commitment to get the fire family in the same room and drive standard . I can not give she the exact date today , but I can tell she that deal with this issue be a priority for the Home Office and we be get on with it . this have be a slightly odd debate , because its substance be exceptionally serious and rooted in one of the nation ' s great tragedy , but we have also have the joy of a dozen member make their maiden speech . the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) say in his eloquent speech that he hope those watch would understand why it have be this way . I will pay due respect to those colleague by reflect on some of the thing they have say . I start with the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill . everything he say about his predecessor , Bob Neill , be true . Bob be so respected on both side of the House , and the way the hon . Gentleman start be very much the way that Bob finish , which be very encouraging . he mention the brave pilot leave his constituency to go to war , and their sacrifice so that we can hold debate today . that represent the spirit that we should all hold to , every day that we be here . his point be well make . he also bravely say that the only football league team that have a Conservative Member of Parliament be his team in Bromley , and that Notts County fan might remind people of that at the weekend . as a Member of Parliament for Nottingham , I will let my Pies - support friend know , although I think the language might be more choice than the suggestion the hon . Gentleman come up with . my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) have show incredible persistence in get here . as he say , this be his fourth time stand for election , and that say a lot about he , because other might not have bother . it be really hard to run for election , certainly in the face of disappointment and , in 2017 , of an incredibly narrow loss . other might have look for alternative seat , but he love his community . Calder Valley and he be one and the same , so it do not surprise I that he stay on , and it be a source of great joy that he be here . he talk about the long running no . 2 in the chart have originate from Calder Valley . he be no . 2 for a long time , but now he have reach no . 1 . similarly , the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) she say that this be her third attempt to get elect , and she have show similar persistence . she say that she bring with she a message of change . she mention special educational need and water quality ; this Parliament — and indeed this Government — will be measure by the progress make on those two issue . like I , my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) be proudly one of the 43 Labour and Co - op Members of this Parliament . we join 11 May or and more than 1 , 000 councillor as Labour and Co - operator . it be a great joy to see he in his place . I be strike by what he say ; it make I feel similarly about my community . he talk about the proud heritage of his town , but also its ambitious future . he say that the industry might change , but the principle will be the same . as Minister for town , I give the commitment that I will work closely with he to make that a reality , although I think he be brave to say that a Labour leader have come from his constituency very early on ; I see the whip make note straight away . I thank the Minister for his kind word . I be sure he will agree that town be the centre of a lot of our community . I hope he will support the continue effort to rejuvenate town centre — effort see in community such as mine in Calder Valley , and that of my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) . we need to make sure that our town continue to thrive in the come century , and reinvent themselves , just as the mill reinvent themselves in my community . I absolutely can give that commitment . I think the model will change — well , I know the model will change . we want to get rid of the beauty parade , and move to a more allocative model of funding base on local priority and local leadership , in order to rejuvenate our town and drive our economy forwards . the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) confess that she be previously an architect . I hope that she will bring her insight to the Department ' s work , particularly on housing . our door will be open . possibly not uncommonly , she say that she will fight for more train station for her constituency . I suspect that many will join she . there be a beautiful irony in my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) say that his constituency be the home of the cock and bull story , because although he be always very modest about this , he have a significant public profile in an industry that be about anything but cock and bull story . it be all about very hard polling . on many occasion , when I have have an idea that I think be brilliant , he have disappoint I by find a way to say on Twitter why what I propose be not right or desirable in the eye of the public . but he have always be a friend to I when I have ask he stupid question about polling , and I appreciate that . will the Minister give way ? I will in a second , but I have not finish with my hon . friend just yet . he be a very well - know pollster , but people do not know just how much he love Milton Keynes ; he love it to the point of perhaps go on about it a bit , but not today . there be great experience from Milton Keynes on the subject of new town and city , and I hope that he will help we in this Parliament . my background in polling teach I that we need to listen and speak to people from across society , as we do in that industry , and make sure that there be nobody who do not get listen to . that be very important in this debate , because a lot of the problem address in it be cause by community and housing body not be listen to . that have result in a lot of these problem not be bring to the forefront . do the Minister agree that across politic , and on all the issue that we discuss in this House , we need to be make sure that we listen and speak to everyone in society , as pollster do ? that be right . that be a well - express sentiment , in the context of this debate . it be our job , of course , to express what we think , and all of we will have strongly hold view , but it be so crucial that we be tribune for our community and give voice to those who be least hear ; that be such an important role . I be pleased to hear the Minister make reference to new town . my constituency of Central Ayrshire benefit from the new town of Irvine , where I be bear . just recently , Irvine be part of the Government ' s long - term plan for town programme , and secure a commitment to £ 20 million to help we bring Irvine back to its good day . I hope that the Minister agree that new town be essential to economic growth and development , both in Scotland and the rest of the UK . I could not agree more . new town be a feature of our manifesto , and there be a deal of public excitement about that . the Minister know that I have a great deal of time and admiration for he . I have rise to my foot on the subject of building safety because many of my Slough constituent , particularly leaseholder , be feed up of be fleece . the Labour party manifesto commit to leasehold reform , so will the Minister say exactly what action the Government will take to assuage the concern of my constituent ? as always , my hon . friend give great voice to the people of Slough . we have hear clearly the message on leasehold reform , and we be look at it very closely . I will cover a little of what we be plan to do in the substantive part of my speech . my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) make important point about her fight , and her predecessor ' s fight , for woman ' s equality . so much progress have be make , but we be well short of an equal Parliament , as we be every time . we should all reflect on that , as a collective and in our political party , and on how we can change that . it will change in our lifetime , but the pace be far too slow . my hon . friend have the enviable , but perhaps daunt , task of follow not only Gordon Brown but Jennie Lee , two giant of the Labour movement , but the passion and conviction with which she speak augur well , as do she work for medical aid for Palestinians recently ; she speak very movingly about her colleague and the work they do . my hon . friend will have notice that in my first speech , I mention that in Fife , we have a housing emergency . I draw his attention to the fact that in March , the SNP Scottish Government cut the affordable supply programme budget by almost £ 200 million . the new UK Labour Government be have to clean up the mess leave by the Conservative Government — their black hole of £ 22 billion . in Scotland , the SNP have be in power for 17 year and have no excuse . Fife council have hope to build 1 , 250 new council home over the next five year , but that be now under threat . too many people in my area , as I say in my speech , do not have a safe , appropriate place to call home . do my hon . friend agree that it be about time the SNP take responsibility for its financial mismanagement ? I note once again that SNP Members be not present in the Chamber for this important debate . this be perhaps the defining issue of this generation . all political leader have to demonstrate that they understand the frustration and pain cause by the lack of decent housing in this country . we be talk today about some very direct and fatal consequence , but across the country , there be other way in which housing problem limit aspiration , health and opportunity . we be elect on a manifesto promise to deliver change , but colleague in other part of the Union have to realise that they also have responsibility . it be time to make few excuse and build more house . I be frustrate with the SNP Government ' s slow progress on facilitate the removal of dangerous , flammable cladding . the Scottish Government be allocate £ 97 million by this place to facilitate the programme , but only £ 11 million have be use , with only one project be complete to date . do the Minister agree that the SNP Government need to address this imbalance urgently ? if anything have come out of the report , and if we have learn anything over the last seven year , it be that get these remediation do require really strong political will . we make that commitment in the apology we give , and we be take action . we need to see that north of the border , too . on strong political leadership , will the Minister join I in congratulate those council that , as soon as the new building regulation come out , take immediate action to put in a wake watch ? I be talk about the wide regulation — not just the one about cladding , but the one about compartmentalisation . in Milton Keynes , within a year , we have empty two tower block that have compartmentalisation , rehouse more than 300 family , and then demolish the tower , whereas Milton Keynes family in private development with similar issue be still wait for remediation work to be do . we often hear that council be slow than the private sector , but do the Minister agree that council have respond more quickly and more responsibly than the private sector to these issue ? my hon . friend be too humble to point to her role in Milton Keynes , but the political will exercise on that and many other housing issue have get result . the Government will display the same degree of political will , and we need to see it in local government , too . Milton Keynes set a really good example . it be troubling that many owner , who , accord to the Act , be responsible for fire safety in these block , be seek to establish themselves in foreign jurisdiction , often in tax haven . how can the Government take action to ensure that those who be responsible — often those who be responsible for the defect in the first place — and who be now seek to evade jurisdiction in this country , can be bring to justice ? will the Government have to appropriate these building to do the remediation work that be so badly need , and not at resident ' expense ? this be on two track . first , we have deal with 55 of the big developer to do those remediation . the money be there , and they need to get on with it . a significant majority , if not a vast majority , of case will see that action . that will cover most people . as my hon . Friend say , action be not as easy where firm have go bust , disappear or choose more nefarious option to evade their responsibility . we have set aside grant funding to ensure people do not suffer as a result of that , so I hope that give an assurance that , no matter the hoop or the attempt at evasion make by those who really ought to do well , the Government will stand by the people who be most affected . rise — an enviable choice of hon . friend wish to intervene . I give way first to my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) . I thank my hon . friend for give way ; he be clearly very popular . I want to follow up on the compelling point make by my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , who say that a lot of the issue we have talk about today be exacerbate by the fact that the owner of the building — the freeholder , in these case — be not always willing to fulfil their obligation to do right by their tenant . this Government be commit to enact legislation to bring in the important reform need to truly bring an end to the problematic nature of leasehold relationship . will the Minister be work closely with other in his Department to ensure building safety be at the heart of those regulation , so we have a join - up approach to tackle the issue at its root ? I will come back to what we be go to do about leasehold in more detail in a second , but the principle be exactly as he say . we will be hold those principle in our head as we consider our response to the report , to ensure our action , legislative or otherwise , meet the moment . rise — I be about halfway through my remark about the maiden speech we have hear , but I assure colleague that I have an awful lot to say on the substance of the debate . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I be keen to take intervention at that point , but it would be a great joy if they could let I finish my remark about the maiden speech first . my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway be bear and breed of his community , and obviously come from a long line of people who have make a difference to it . his experience around leasehold will be useful for we in government , as will his knowledge of electrical safety , which be at the root of the issue . my hon . friend the Member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) talk about two predecessor who be distinctive — one for their hair and one for their coat — and I wonder what his distinctive nature might be . sadly , it will not be his name , as I join he in that already , but I wonder if the distinction will be the extraordinary service in the armed force that he , his brother and four generation of his family have give to our country . his be a staggering story of commitment to this country . he be now enter a different phase and type of service , in which I know he will excel and that he will find rewarding in different way , serve his country and his community . my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) talk about first come here as a 15 - year - old and , as a result , get a taste and enthusiasm for the House . I wonder how many other member come here when they be young and be inspire . in my case , I be 11 , but I suspect that will be true for many other . it speak to the responsibility that we have as parliamentarian to use the brilliant thing that Parliament have to share and promote Parliament and democracy to young people in our community . I commend my hon . friend for his brilliant work on his borough council . I be not surprised he have make the analysis that he now want to come here and fight for his town , because I make a similar analysis . I know it frustrate he when people say , about his constituency , that Gatwick be distinctive of it , but it be an important part of our country , both for holidaymaker and for people arrive for the first time . that first moment be so important to their integration and their life here . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) share her story . I be sure many right hon . and hon . member would associate themselves with the challenge in childhood that inspire she to be here today . she speak about housing be a devolved issue and it be right that it should be handle appropriately , but I hope she have take some succour , as I have , from the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister ' s attempt to reset relation with devolved government . on the issue of housing , as on many other , we can do good work . she offer we all a visit , as well as the inducement of whisky and the Edinburgh festival . I be sure the Minister will remember from my speech the harrowing story of my constituent from Tillicoultry who have suffer , and continue to suffer , from the horrible mental and physical impact of be evacuate from their home at such short notice . will he agree to meet I to discuss possible solution for my constituent , bear in mind the resetting of relationship between this Labour Government and the Scottish Government and the fact that housing be a devolved issue ? my hon . friend make some very important point about reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , which I shall address shortly . on his request to meet I , let I say that I be always happy to accept such invitation . as I be the Minister with lead responsibility for resilience , it may be well if my hon . friend the Minister with responsibility for building safety take that meeting . she be very keen to meet colleague to discuss what support we can offer as a Government . finally , my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) may be a proud islander , but I can detect a Nottinghamshire accent from 10 pace — watch " Sherwood " make my ear go . I know that he be a proud islander , but , like his predecessor , he have that connection with Nottinghamshire . he also have the accolade of be the first chip shop owner to enter Parliament . that again be a very good inducement to get colleague , and perhaps Ministers , to visit he . we do recognise that life be different on the island , and , as a result , some of the challenge be different . we in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be ready to support he in his work in that space . I move on to the contribution of colleague who be not make their maiden speech . that be probably well time because , judge by the face behind I , my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) be come to the end of his time as Select Committee Chair . he have show such incredible leadership ; he be a great parliamentarian , and have always be such a good and kind friend to I . I think it be safe to say that Ministers who have be before his Committee have find he tough and hard , but also very fair . he be also a very kind man . his service have be extraordinary . let I mention some of the point that my hon . Friend make . he talk about what help can be give to resident who wish to legally challenge recalcitrant owner and developer . regulator have power to act against such owner , and we expect they to do so . our Department be responsible for hold to account developer who have sign the developer remediation contract , so if resident be concerned about the progress of remediation of their building , they should contact the regulator . if they be concerned about the progress of developer - lead remediation , they should contact the Department . I hope that address the hon . Gentleman ' s point . I do not know whether my hon . friend hear the example that I give early of a management agency not give the information to leaseholder to check whether they be be charge the right amount of money or even to seek legal redress . there seem to be no power to force those agency to give that information . my hon . friend will be pleased with the answer that I have to that question , which , with his forbearance , I will give once I have deal with the next few question . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East reference the Morrell and Day report , publish last year , to which the previous Government do not respond . the intention of this Government be to bring forward proposal for system - wide reform of the construction product regulatory regime , which will tackle issue both in that report and the Grenfell Tower inquiry report . we think that it make sense to do that as a collective piece of work . my hon . friend mention product manufacturer and remediation cost , which the shadow Minister also talk about . we be currently work on identify how we might strengthen the Building Safety Act 2022 to ensure that such manufacturer can make a contribution . we have be take action already through the recovery strategy unit to hold those construction product manufacturer to account and to get money out of they for their share of the cost . where the work have not have the result that we want , we have write to institutional investor and encourage sponsor to reconsider their partnership , which have result in the severance of two sponsorship deal , as well as another to which a colleague refer early . we know that more may be need in this space , so we will continue to do that . will the Minister give way ? I will . it be very hard not to have an intervention from Jim Shannon . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I outline the case for the legislation and for build safety and resilience go forward . do the Minister intend to share the finding with the region of Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , which I represent , so that the appropriate Department in the Northern Ireland Assembly can take the legislative measure forward constructively to ensure safety for we in Northern Ireland as well ? I can give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . we will absolutely share the good of our knowledge and insight — I be sure that will be a two - way process — to ensure that we be do right by everybody across Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I thank the Minister for his kind word about my chairing of the Select Committee . I be really pleased that he be now look at raise some money from product manufacturer ; they have escape their responsibility for far too long . might I suggest that he use some of the money raise to help with social housing provider , give the concern that I raise about their be treat differently in their access to the building safety fund ? my hon . friend ' s suggestion often come with a smile but a degree of force . he will know that we be not very far from a spending review and a Budget , so I will not make financial commitment at this point . however , that idea be well express , and duly note as a result . I be grateful for it . I endorse what the Minister say about our hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) . I , too , have the great honour of serve on his Committee many year ago , and at that time the focus be very much on housing . in relation to building safety in Islington , where we all live on top of each other in flat , in 2021 there be 31 dangerous block of flat , which be terrify for my constituent , many of whom be in fact private tenant , not social housing tenant . we do an audit in my office , and have be push . we now have only four block leave , but it ought to be put on the record how terrifying it be over the year for those local resident , who have to pay for fire watch , could not sell their flat , and do not know what be go to happen . I have not be know for praise the Department over the year , but we be very grateful in Islington South for the support that we have be give by the Department until now . the right hon . Lady have put that on the record . it speak to my early point about the importance of political will in this space . if we just wait for something to happen , we be not go to see it . there need to be political grip at the national and local level , and we will certainly play our role in that . on her point about what her constituent live with , she would have be sit on the Opposition Front Bench seven year ago — I be behind she — when everybody say , " never again . what action can we take ? no job be too big or small . " but that be not what happen . it be a huge broken promise to the british people — her constituent and beyond . on the point about political will , the leasehold system be unfortunately still alive and kicking . I know that many of we look forward to see that feudal system kick into the history book via oncoming legislation . it seem that service charge have become a cash cow for some interesting character in the industry . what will the Minister and his team do to ensure that we move thing forward , and that commonhold be the de facto tenancy in this country for flat ? my hon . friend hear what I say about leasehold , and what we say in the manifesto that we both stand on . I will get to service charge shortly , because both he and our hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) make that point very well . I think they will be glad to hear what I have to say . let I deal first , though , with prosecution , refer particularly to my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) . he have the close stake in this issue , and speak today with incredible passion . I know that he will be an outstanding advocate for his community , and I be sure that he will bring forward a lot of his frustration about the pace of change . I think that point be well make . he have make multiple time the point about prosecution . as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister set out in his recent statement to the House , those affect have wait too long for justice , and those responsible must be hold accountable . as the Met police have say , this will take time . it be one of the large and most complex investigation that they have ever have to conduct , with 180 officer and staff dedicate to it . we fully support the Met and the Crown Prosecution Service as they carry out their investigation . they must be give space to do that . we have be talk quite passionately in this debate , but we often lose sight of the story of those who be actually affect . I think not least of a woman — she shall remain anonymous — who buy her flat as a way to ensure that she and her husband would be debt - free in their retirement . unfortunately , her husband have pass away . although they plan to be able to pay for the insurance and the service charge , those cost have go up by 600 % . she , an elderly lady in her retirement , be now accrue debt that she never want to pass on to her family . that be an issue not of cladding , but of wide thing . for she , the mess that have be leave , and the lack of clarity around remediation , mean that her daily life be now a stressful situation . do the Minister agree that the Secretary of State in the previous Government , who be responsible for this mess and misery , have no place lead any political party in this country ? everyone will have be anger by what we see in the report . all those who play a part and make decision will rightly reflect on their role and responsibility in this , and will , I assume , make appropriate judgment in respect of the scale of the issue . my hon . friend talk about service charge , so I will turn next to that point . before the Minister move on to service charge , I remind the House of something that I say last week , follow the Prime Minister ' s statement , about a similar fire that take place in Irvine in my constituency in 1999 . a fire rip through a 14 - storey block of flat , lead to one fatality . thank to the work of my predecessor , Sir Brian Donohoe , building regulation be change follow that fire . I hope that the Minister will consider those building regulation and the Garnock Court fire as he examine what go wrong in the terrible tragedy at Grenfell . I be grateful for that thoughtful intervention . I can assure my hon . friend that minister be indeed consider that as part of this whole process . we need to learn those lesson . on regulation , my hon . friend will know that Sir Martin Moore - Bick ' s report make very strong statement about the difficulty of reconcile the role of maintain standard with the competitive environment . it be when building control cease to be the responsibility solely of local authority and become privatised building control function that thing start to go wrong . what action will my hon . friend and the Government take to ensure that one set of standard be apply in one particular way and be not subject to trading ? say " we will give you a shortcut if you come to we " be what go on , but it be wrong and need to stop . throughout the debate , colleague have raise important and startling account of just that — the way in which standard have be circumvent . that speak to what my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East say at the beginning about how the culture have fall into a race to the bottom . on the regulatory change that my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) want to see from the Government , we be look at the report and have make commitment to come back on it within six month . we will give the Chamber the chance to discuss the report in great detail . I hope he can give we the space to come forward with those suggestion and change , but his point be well make . the UK Government have pledge to speed up the process of remove dangerous cladding from english building follow the publication of the damn Grenfell inquiry report , which set out a series of significant failure . do the Minister agree that the Scottish Government must start treat the issue with the urgency it deserve ? the SNP have already re - profiled hundred of thousand of pound from this vital programme to plug the black hole it create in its own budget . this can not happen again . building safety can not be sacrifice to SNP incompetence and financial mismanagement . a theme of this debate have be that we will not make the change we need to make or keep people safe in the way they should be able to expect without really strong political will , at whatever level and whatever point politician touch the process . it be incumbent on all of we to use all the lever and tool we have to ensure that we meet our responsibility . where colleague have not do so , they really must reflect on that , frankly , and change . the Minister be be very generous with his time . I wonder whether he will meet I and representative from Burnley council , which have a very good retrofit scheme that actually make profit for the council and seem to retrofit street after street of terrace house in Burnley . I note with interest the comment make by the shadow Minister about arm ' s length company use under the previous Labour Government to precipitate retrofit programme . in area such as Burnley , include Burnley Wood and Trinity , that approach work and actually bring a great deal of investment into street that be , quite frankly , still in need of repair and retrofit . be the Minister interested in come to Burnley to meet I on that front , and may I praise he for his kind word about Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield early ? I be grateful for that kind offer . of course I will readily accept a visit to Burnley — perhaps through the lens of my role as the local growth and town Minister . we could have a very interesting visit and I would be glad to do it . I be conscious of the time ; I be go to run out of it , unthinkably . we may have to pick up any further intervention in a different form , because I want to get to the point about building insurance , lending and service charge raise by my hon . friend the Members for Runcorn and Helsby ( Mike Amesbury ) , for Eltham and Chislehurst and for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) . one thing we know be that there have not be enough change in this space over the past seven year , but there have be change in the insurance bill that many leaseholder have be face . we understand the financial and emotional impact that extreme insurance premium have be have on leaseholder . affected leaseholder have be burden with pay too high premium for too long . I assure colleague that we be work actively to reduce premium for leaseholder , and we be review how well to protect leaseholder from cost and push for fair premium for leaseholder in building with fire safety issue . colleague have talk about buying , sell or remortgage home . we have see improvement in that space , but we remain vigilant . we will continue to hold particularly the 10 large lender to account follow their commitment to lend on property even where remediation be not yet complete . they must keep that promise . [ Official Report , 7 October 2024 ; Vol . 754 , c . 2wc . ] ( correction ) on service charge , by law , variable service charge must be reasonable . as colleague have raise , that have be stretch significantly by some of the practice we have see . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 contain measure to ensure that leaseholder get key financial and non - financial information so that they can scrutinise and hold to account the organisation that they be work with on service charge . not all of that legislation have be commence ; secondary legislation be require , but we be work on that actively . we just want to get it right . my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) talk about the pace of remediation . again , we accept that the pace be too slow ; we have say that throughout , and what we have see in Dagenham and Slough be horrific reminder of the risk that unsafe clad still pose to far too many people . the Deputy Prime Minister have be very clear on her intention to drive that forward — again , there be that political will — and to get more action out of manufacturer , freeholder , developer and organisation with responsibility for make sure that building be safe . too many building owner be still not act quickly enough , so we will investigate , pursue the most egregious actor who be create unacceptable delay , and hold they to account . the message from this Dispatch Box and from this Government be clear : " use the route we have create to get your building fix , and get on with it . " I now turn to the point make by the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) and the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) about the inquiry . the right hon . Gentleman express concern that the report would be shelve , and the hon . Lady be concerned that it would just be word , so again , let I make the commitment — this speak to the response I give to my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) — that the report ' s recommendation must be consider with the seriousness that this tragedy deserve . we will look at all 58 recommendation in detail ; there will be a debate on the Floor of this House ; we will respond in full within six month ; and we will be listen to the community throughout the process . we will update Parliament annually on our progress so that we can be hold to account , but we will also get on quickly with the thing we can do , whether that be speed up remediation or reform construction product . the change have not be at the pace that it ought to have be , but it will get well . I can commit that the report will not , as the right hon . Gentleman have say , just be shelve — far from it . the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) and for Woking ( Mr Forster ) mention building under 11 metre . our approach to clad remediation have be to prioritise the risk of loss of life . it be generally accept that the risk to life be proportional to the height of building , so the risk to life be usually low in building under 11 metre , and they be very unlikely to need the same costly remediation . build safety remediation work may be require in a very small number of those building , but so far , our casework as a Department over the past couple of year show that of the more than 160 case that have be raise , only three have fall into that category . as such , we think that be an appropriate distinction to draw . my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) make a point about RAAC . this issue be different in Scotland than it be in England : Scotland have its own responsibility , which the Scottish Government must work within , and as I say to my hon . friend , we will work within the good practice too . it be the duty of building owner , include local authority if they be the owner , to fulfil their duty to manage building safety and performance risk of all kind — include RAAC — in a proportionate manner . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , talk about personal evacuation plan , or peep . we must ensure that the most vulnerable in our society be protect . on 2 September , through a write ministerial statement , the Government announce that the Home Office will bring forward in the autumn proposal to improve fire safety and the evacuation of disabled or vulnerable resident in high - rise and high - risk residential building in England . those proposal will be call residential peep . through they , resident with disability and impairment will be entitle to a person - centre risk assessment to identify the appropriate equipment and adjustment to aid their fire safety and evacuation , as well as a residential PEEP statement that say what vulnerable resident should do in the event of a fire . the Government have commit funding next year to begin that important work by support social housing provider to deliver peep for their renter . the shadow Minister also mention product hallmark . we stand by what be say in the write ministerial statement — I would have hope that give enough confidence — but for clarity , this be about strong standard , not weak standard . I hope the hon . Gentleman can take confidence from that . will the Minister give way ? very briefly . I would just like to press the Minister for the assurance I be seek : that the Government have take step to ensure that all product that meet the 2015 european standard , and therefore be within the scope of what the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) say in the write ministerial statement , will also — as a minimum — meet the 2018 post - Grenfell UK standard . my colleague and hon . friend , the Minister for building safety , have hear that intervention . as I say , everything that we have say be about high standard , not less standard , but my hon . friend will write to the hon . Gentleman about the issue he have raise . again , I hope that I can assure he that this be about great standard , not less one . to conclude , as the Prime Minister make clear , the Grenfell Tower tragedy be the result of unacceptable , inherent and systematic issue and decade of failure from both industry and Government . it be go to take political will to change that , and we offer it . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider build safety and resilience . Speaker ' s Statement we now come to the result of the Select Committee Chair election . the result for the Chairs who be unopposed be announce on Monday . the election for the contest post be hold by secret ballot today , and 577 member vote . the successful candidate be : Business and Trade Committee , Liam Byrne ; Defence Committee , Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi ; Education Committee , Helen Hayes ; Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , Bill Esterson : Environmental Audit Committee , Toby Perkins ; Foreign Affairs Committee , Emily Thornberry ; Home Affairs Committee , Dame Karen Bradley ; Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , Florence Eshalomi ; International Development Committee , Sarah Champion ; Justice Committee , Andy Slaughter ; Procedure Committee , Cat Smith ; Public Accounts Committee , Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ; Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , Simon Hoare ; Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , Chi Onwurah ; Committee on Standards , Alberto Costa ; Transport Committee , Ruth Cadbury ; Women and Equalities Committee , Sarah Owen ; and Work and Pensions Committee , Debbie Abrahams . the result of the election for the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee will be announce tomorrow as a recount be go on . I congratulate colleague who have be elect and thank all candidate who have take part . the full breakdown of vote in each of the contest be set out in a paper that will be available tomorrow when all the result have be announce . the Members elect take up their position formally when their Committee have be nominate by the House . democracy in Bangladesh Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) it be the sitar - love George Harrison who sing that " Bangladesh … sure look like a mess " . he make the observation in 1971 , soon after the country ' s formation , but it apply again since 5 August , after momentous event happen in that country . no one see it come , but the previous Prime Minister , Sheikh Hasina , who have look so entrenched , be overthrow . within day , her replacement be Professor Muhammad Yunus , a Nobel prize winner for his concept of microfinance . that do not happen without bloodshed . hundred of student be kill in the struggle for the new Bangladesh 2 . 0 , as people have call it , and thousand injure . Bangladesh ' s found constitution — it be only a young country — stress democracy , secularism and socialism , but in recent year it have become synonymous with corruption , authoritarianism and repression . there be echo of Saddam Hussein ' s fall when we see tv picture of statue of the first ever leader , Sheikh Mujibur Rahman , topple , with effigy of he burn and picture smash , from the capital city , Dhaka , to Tower Hamlets . it be all because of his daughter , the ex - PM Sheikh Hasina , who have rule in two burst for a large percentage of the country ' s existence . it be she who ensure the omnipresent picture of her dad across the nation . for I , it have echo of Tiananmen Square in 1990 , although in this case the student win . there may be a fledgling interim government , but I feel they have very good intention , and we should congratulate they . rise — rise — I will give way to the new Chair of the Defence Committee . I thank my hon . friend , and I congratulate she on secure this Adjournment debate about democracy in Bangladesh . after the recent upheaval , many of my constituent in Slough and people across the globe be extremely concerned about not just democracy , but the right of minority . there have be many attack , in particular on the Hindu minority community . do she agree that it be incumbent on the new Administration to safeguard the right of all minority within Bangladesh ? my hon . friend always make excellent point . when we be talk about minority such as Hindus and Buddhists — there be various minority — it be interesting to look at who be propagate the story . there have also be picture of devout muslim student from the madrasa in their topi defend Hindu home . BBC Verify have show that some of these attack have be on people associate with the previous regime . sometimes these thing be a bit amplify by people with agenda , but my hon . friend make a great point . I commend the hon . Lady for secure this debate . she be absolutely right to highlight the issue . do she not agree that democracy mean the protection of human right and religious freedom ? I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . we stand up for those with christian faith , those with other faith and those with no faith , the right to religious freedom and the right to practise faith or to have no faith . there can never be true democracy in Bangladesh until a Government and a system be in place that do not penalise people base on how they worship or where they worship , but that offer protection for people ' s difference . that be what society should be like . I totally agree with the hon . member . the UK have a unique historical role in the colonial history and as head of the Commonwealth . he do great work on the APPG . we should be vigilant on all these thing . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this important debate . on the UK ' s role , be she aware that in May , the previous UK Government sign a deal with the now depose Bangladeshi Government about fast - track the deportation of bangladeshi asylum seeker , presumably include those seek political asylum ? Bangladesh be deem a supposedly safe country . do she agree that something have clearly be reveal to be wrong here , both with the deportation policy itself and with the UK ' s foreign policy objective ? I have check , and apparently some of those memorandum of understanding be be look at by the new Government one by one to see if they be carry over . the hon . Member make an excellent point . let we have a reset . we have a fresh government in this country and a fresh one in Bangladesh , so it be time to look at these thing through new eye . back in the summer — in fact , it be at the same time as we see race riot in this country — there be footage of jubilant Bangladeshis marching through the street of Tower Hamlets , the hon . member ' s borough . that confuse many people , but it be in happiness ; they be not angry ethnic mob . there be a big global diaspora , with 70 , 000 in this country , include I . the diaspora can be see across Europe . in some of the middle eastern emirate state , the diaspora have supply cheap labour to build such thing as World cup stadium in Qatar . Bangladesh be a place that export people . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech about an important issue . I commend the work of the Bangladeshi community in Reading , who work incredibly hard in our town . they be visible in a whole series of profession and business activity . I thank and commend my hon . friend for secure this debate and for raise these important matter about the future of Bangladesh . across the House , we all share concern about this wonderful country , and we wish it the good with its new leadership . my hon . friend be so right . I do not see any demo in Reading , but I do know that in all sort of european capital , include Paris and Rome , as well as in Manchester and Trafalgar Square , there be solidarity protest when these thing go on . the diaspora have be active . I be a London - bear Bangladeshi . I kind of know about the country from my parent tell I that it be this paradise of coconut tree and those kind of thing . I only go as a teenager . more recently , as an adult and as an MP , I have notice the slightly more sinister side , with thing like enforce disappearance and extrajudicial killing . every human right organisation — Amnesty International and so on — have condemn those . I try to keep out of this subject — I do not have a very bangladeshi electorate — but I be jolt when in 2018 I hear from the family of Shahidul Alam , a photographer who be take picture of an early student protest , that he have be bang up and torture . then I have to get involve . I be there as recently as May with the excellent all - party parliamentary group on global sexual and reproductive health right — it have be reconstitute just today — for a United Nations Development Programme conference . again , I realise that I be in a one - party police state — it be not quite right . as one of the diaspora , these human right crackdown come into my inbox , and they reach fever pitch in July when hundred of brave student give their life in a struggle . before we break for recess , I have a panel discussion , with the panellist include Toby Cadman , a barrister who have defend people from the Jamaat party that be ban by the previous regime — it have just be unbanne — and the head of Amnesty International UK . the discussion , which we have in the Grand Committee Room of Westminster Hall , be so oversubscribed that people have to be turn away , such be the thirst for information . I see the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) in his place . he be there , and I think that his defeat of Jonathan Ashworth may have have something to do with some comment about this subject , but let we not speculate . do the hon . member agree about the positive contribution that the Bangladeshi community have make to our country , which have make it as it be today ? I would like to take this opportunity to pay homage to the Bangladeshi community of Leicester South , who be hard - work , entrepreneurial and philanthropic . their commitment to use the political system to improve their community have make my city as great as it be today . do the hon . Member also agree that the riot we see recently in Southport after the devastating attack and killing of three innocent people emphasise how important it be that we do not single out a community , because that can have devastating effect ? do she agree that both side of the House should be much more responsible in the language they use to ensure that community cohesion ensue ? I completely endorse what the hon . Member be say . we do need to temper our language and be careful . every member in this House have a curry house in their constituency , and that will not be an indian restaurant — it will be Bangladeshis who run it . an enormous contribution have be make to our society . with the thing we see this summer , we should stamp on the misinformation that I refer to in response to my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . again , those Bangladeshi university student show courage , and they be not just the elitist one from the capital city ; it happen all over the country at public and private university , with boy and girl . their demand be initially against corruption but they grow to wide pro - democracy concern and the overthrow of the Prime Minister . so far , so predictable , but then in the big plot twist since Bobby Ewing in the shower , when all those tension be come to a head , we hear that the previous Prime Minister have suddenly scarper . she helicoptere out . a regime so entrenched that it look like it would last forever suddenly collapse like a pack of card . in January , there be an election in Bangladesh — we hear that 40 % of the globe be go to the poll this year — although there be not any other real candidate in it , so that be declare null and void . we now have this caretaker Government who be there to oversee fresh election . we do not know exactly when those will be . I thank the hon . member for secure this important debate . she know that in the city of Birmingham we have an extremely sizeable community that have Bangladeshi heritage , like the constituency of the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) , and the Bangladeshi community in the curry house contribute some £ 4 billion per annum to the to the taxman . do the hon . Member agree that the recent disorder and killing of student in Bangladesh have impact the Bangladeshi heritage community here in the UK , especially when we have a lockdown of all telecom ? do she agree that the next step must be a democratically elect Government and that that must be expedite , potentially with international observer , to ensure that it be free and fair , so that the loss of those hundred of student ' life be not in vain ? I agree . our loved one be worried , and we do not know that be go on . we be talk about a country that can , at will , shut off the internet so that people can not communicate with the outside world , or even with each other via phone signal — there be a Digital Security Act that be a bit sinister , and stop all freedom of speech , thought , expression and assembly . yes , we must rebuild . the hon . Gentleman make a great point . the sight of Muhammad Yunus — until recently , the previous regime have try to lock he up — be baffle but reassure for many , because he be globally recognise . he be a character on " The Simpsons " ; Lisa discover his microfinance loan to woman . among his friend be the Obamas and the Clintons , and 197 world leader have sign a memorandum to welcome he to power . he have the in - tray from hell , and a big job to do in repair democracy . he be here in March , and my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) organise a meeting for he with the all - party parliamentary group for Bangladesh , which she then chair . he be such a modest man ; he have 200 different court case against he , but he do not go on about they — it have to be tease out of he by Baroness Helena Kennedy , who chair that day . he be know as the banker to the poor . nobody see this coming . Bangladesh be a country of contradiction . it have 175 million people on a land mass the size of England and Wales , and be beset by natural disaster — at the moment , there be the bad flood in 30 year . youth unemployment be sky high , which partly explain the protest . I congratulate the hon . Lady on get this debate . do she agree that there be also a geopolitical issue surround all the change in Bangladesh ? Hitherto , it adopt a credible non - align position , support the nuclear non - proliferation treaty and try basically to be a promoter of peace in the region . I do not know any more than she do what the outcome of all this will be , but do she agree that the important thing be that Bangladesh remain independent and not align with any other bloc ? otherwise , we might end up with the further problem of a cold war in south - east Asia . order . I remind member that intervention should be short . I know that you have all just have a master class in very long intervention , but I be sure that Dr Rupa Huq be about to conclude her remark , so that the Minister have an opportunity to speak . there be plenty more to say . we need a fresh start — a reset , as the right hon . Gentleman say , and " in neither Washington nor Moscow " , as the slogan use to be . we need less gerontocracy . Yunus be 84 , though he be very sharp . the leader he overthrow be 76 , and the opposition rival , Khaleda Zia , be 78 . I have some question for the Minister . as I say , there be a big job to do . give our unique role in all this , we should offer support . apparently , the constitution be be amend and redrafte . could we lend expertise there ? british lawyer have good form on this ; we construct the european convention on human right . capacity building be need to cleanse all sort of institution of party people who be in the pocket of the last regime . Hendon police training college be renowne all over the world ; perhaps we can rebuild the police in Bangladesh , because apparently there have be a bit of a vacuum there recently . the Stormtrooper - like Rapid Action Battalion force should be disband , and the death penalty should be go . maybe we could do something about climate finance , because country in the global south face the brunt of climate problem , and we be in the run - up to COP29 . these measure do not even have to cost anything ; we could put a polluter - pay levy on some country . lastly , we need to recover some of the asset . the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) mention foreign government ' interference . when I last go to Bangladesh , I see chinese power plant and russian flyover — lot of thing like that ; I can not remember what they all be . money that belong to the bangladeshi people be loot and plunder . we need asset trace to recover it . I understand that Professor Yunus be come to the UN General Assembly . it would be great if his Majesty ' s Government warmly welcome he — I do not know if they will be represent by the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , the Prime Minister or whoever . we be talk about Bangladesh 2 . 0 and human right . when Gandhi be ask what he think of western civilisation , he famously say : " I think it would be a good idea " . let we make sure that democracy and human right in Bangladesh be not just a good idea , but a give . People be talk about this as a second revolution . let we rebuild Bangladesh , so that human right and democracy be a give . I look forward to hear what the Minister say . I be so grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton ( Dr Huq ) for secure this debate and I commend the commitment she have show to Bangladesh over many year . as we be aware in this House , Adjournment debate be usually quite a lonely affair , so it be fantastic to have have contribution from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and my hon . friend the Members for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) and for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) . my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) have stay here on the Government Front Bench follow her early ministerial duty , because it be such an important debate . the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) and for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) , and the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) be all great friend of Bangladesh , and be very active in the all - party parliamentary group for Bangladesh . the UK and Bangladesh share an historic relationship , with long - stand economic and trading tie build from a strong development partnership . we be both valuable member of the Commonwealth family . our long - stand relationship be strengthen by our people - to - people tie , with over 650 , 000 people of Bangladeshi heritage live here in the UK and , as be mention early , make a significant and highly value contribution to our country and our relationship . the UK be among the first to recognise Bangladesh after it gain independence in 1971 , and have support the people of Bangladesh since then . we want to see a peaceful and democratic future for the people of Bangladesh . democracy , human right , an independent judiciary and good governance be vital foundation for long - term growth and prosperity . my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton outline some of her idea for how that can be build in the come month . the UK be therefore commit to bolster democracy and human right in Bangladesh through our sustained support to leader of civil society , defence of medium freedom and championing youth empowerment . we , like many in the international community , express concern about the election in Bangladesh in January this year . democratic election depend on credible , open and fair competition . respect for human right , the rule of law and due process be essential element . those standard , sadly , be not consistently meet during the election period in Bangladesh and be follow by incident of violent repression . during the recent protest , we be deeply sadden by the loss of life and injury cause . there be credible report of the police use tear gas , stun grenade and live round . the United Nations report that 32 child be among those kill . child be also among those detain during the protest . the violence reportedly leave more than 600 people dead , and thousand injure and detain . the former Bangladesh Government severely restrict access to the internet , mobile service and landline . those service be only fully restore after 10 day . we raise our concern about the communication disruption in Bangladesh and the widescale impact it have , include on british national in country . we be clear that access to communication must be maintain and not use as a tool to repress freedom of speech . in July , the Foreign Secretary and I issue statement urge an end to the violence and loss of life . we call for all side to find way to restore calm , include by establish a pathway for constructive political dialogue . we be clear that peaceful protester must never be subject to violence , and that right to protest , to peacefully assemble and to express different political view must be protect . during the protest , I reinforce our concern and message about the situation in discussion with the Bangladesh high commissioner to the UK . the UK call for a full and independent UN - lead investigation into the event , and be support its independent fact - find mission to identify human right violation . we welcome the appointment of the interim Government in Bangladesh , lead by Chief Adviser Professor Muhammad Yunus , in August . the Foreign Secretary make it clear in his statement last month that the people of Bangladesh deserve a peaceful , inclusive and democratic future . the interim Government in Bangladesh have commit to restore peace and order , ensure accountability , and promote national reconciliation , and they have the UK ' s full support on those objective . the british high commissioner to Bangladesh , Sarah Cooke , to whom we all owe a debt of gratitude , meet Chief Adviser Professor Yunus and other key member of the interim Government , include the Adviser for Foreign Affairs , in August . she and member of the british high commission in Dhaka continue to engage with the interim Government on key priority , and she will have hear the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton . the high commissioner and member of the british high commission be actively support this democratic process , include through the b - CAPP — Bangladesh - collaborative , accountable and peaceful politic — programme . we work with civil society , youth organisation , political party and other international partner to encourage democratic participation , civil space and accountable governance . the UK ' s support to Bangladesh reflect other challenge that the country face , include the impact of climate change and humanitarian issue . my deep sympathy be with the people of Bangladesh , in all its region , as the nation face the effect of the recent devastating flood ; my thought be with all those affect . we have respond to the recent flooding with £ 483 , 000 of humanitarian assistance . that is , of course , on top of our long - stand support under the overseas development aid project . the UK Government be also commit to provide humanitarian support for the Rohingya refugee , and we be very aware that , at this moment of stress for Bangladesh , this be a particularly precious duty that it be carry out on behalf of the international community . as a lead donor to the Rohingya refugee response , we be provide humanitarian aid , include food , clean water , healthcare and protection service . over £ 391 million have be provide by the UK since 2017 . because the current condition in Myanmar be not conducive to the safe return of the Rohingya refugee , we be work with the interim Government in Bangladesh on continued support to those refugee . as a long - stand champion of democracy , and as a friend and partner of Bangladesh , the UK will support the country ' s interim Government in their work to restore peace and order , ensure accountability and promote national reconciliation . we will work with Chief Adviser Professor Yunus and his interim Government as they chart a peaceful transition to an inclusive , prosperous and democratic future for Bangladesh . as part of this regular dialogue , the UK will continue to raise concern over the protection of human right and freedom of expression . we will urge the Government of Bangladesh to ensure safety and security inside Rohingya refugee camp , and will reiterate that peaceful protester must never be subject to violence . as many of our diaspora community watch this important debate , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton for her relentless support for Bangladesh and its people , and for bring this debate to the House today . question put and agree to . House adjourn .