Speaker ' s statement I wish to inform the House that I have receive a letter from the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , inform I of her resignation as the Chair of the Petitions Committee . I therefore declare the Chair vacant . I can now announce the arrangement for the election for the Chair of the Petitions Committee and the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , which be declare vacant on Monday . nomination for both election will close at noon on Tuesday 17 October . nomination form will be available from the Vote Office , the Table Office and the Public Bill Office . only Members from the Labour party may be candidate in the election . if there be more than one candidate in either election , the ballot will take place on Wednesday 18 October , between 11 am and 2 . 30 pm , in the Aye Division Lobby . briefing note with more information will be make available in the Vote Office . Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — Police Funding what recent discussion he have hold with the Police Service of Northern Ireland on the potential impact of change in the level of funding for police in Northern Ireland on crime . today be my first anniversary in this amazing role — one of the very good job in Government . some thing , alas , have not change in that time . obviously , Stormont be not sit . some important anniversary have be mark , include the 25th anniversary of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , and some thing have really move on and change , include the Windsor framework resolve many of the issue with the Northern Ireland protocol , and indeed my former shadow , the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) . I warmly welcome his replacement , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) , to his place , and indeed his deputy , the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) . may I place on the record my thank to the hon . member for Hove and his deputy for all the work they do with I in the course of the last year ? police in Northern Ireland be a devolved matter , as be the funding for it , and it be the responsibility of Northern Ireland Departments to allocate resource as they see fit . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his anniversary . in July , the former chief constable warn that the force be at risk of be leave unrecognisable due to budgetary pressure that could see the loss of more than 1 , 000 officer by 2025 . with the force already at low - than - ideal number and the recent datum leak likely to have an impact , what discussion be the Secretary of State have with the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland and with the psni about how those pressure can be ease during this difficult time for the force ? I have a number of conversation with the former chief constable about this issue . the budget for 2023 - 24 give the Department of Justice a total allocation of £ 1 . 2 billion . obviously , recognise the unique security situation in Northern Ireland , the UK Government make additional contribution to the PSNI ' s counter - terrorism work through the additional security funding . the UK contribution for 2022 - 23 be £ 32 million . I be fully aware of the obvious issue that we talk about in the recent urgent question , and I be sure that we will get on to those a bit later in question . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I wish my right hon . friend a happy anniversary . I also thank , as he do , the outgoing shadow team and welcome the new . he be right to reference the recent datum breach , which will have very much change the backdrop of the morale of the police in Northern Ireland — and not just officer , but those in support service . budget be under pressure , as we know , but the security and safety of serve officer and those who work for the psni be always important , particularly post the data breach , give the potential risk from dissident that that create . can he assure I that he will do all he can to deliver safety equipment , protection and security for those who be feel most vulnerable at this time ? yes , I absolutely can . I look forward to continue to work closely with the PSNI ' s senior leadership team , who have a wealth of experience and be dedicate to keep the people of Northern Ireland safe . I know that they be continue to work closely to ensure the very good possible response to this breach . just to give a tiny bit of detail , very briefly , the psni and security partner will continue to take proportionate action to protect their officer , staff and family and they have full Government support in respond to the data breach . at the moment , our focus remain on provide specialist support and expertise to the PSNI from across Government . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his first anniversary and welcome the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) to his new role as shadow Secretary of State . we look forward to work with he . this Secretary of State have rightly say that many aspect of police in Northern Ireland be devolve , but the data breach be a matter of national security because it include officer who work with the Security Service in a very specialist role involve counter - terrorism and intelligence in Northern Ireland . will he assure the House that whatever resource be require by the PSNI , not only to fulfil that function but to protect its own officer and staff , will be make available ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for congratulate I on my anniversary . I be hope that he might give I a different anniversary present , by head back to Stormont , but perhaps we can have that conversation later . indicate dissent . I have to ask , haven ' t I ? the right hon . Gentleman ask a very sensible and serious question , for which I thank he . I obviously can not answer some element of his question in public , but any additional funding require by the PSNI would be submit through an establish process . we be currently at the very beginning of that establish process , so it would not be right to pre - empt that . the Government be clear that security be paramount , and our focus remain on the item I set out . it will move on , but it be currently specialist support and expertise in response to the late assessment . I thank the Secretary of State for that response . in his early answer he refer to the PSNI ' s senior leadership team . for the record , my party fully support the psni in its impartial implementation of police across all community in Northern Ireland , but we be in a crisis situation , not only with the data breach but with the loss of confidence internally within the psni . although it be the responsibility of the Policing Board to make appointment , do he agree that perhaps what we need now , in the absence of a chief constable , be for someone to be bring in who have the experience and leadership credential that be need in the interim period , pende the appointment of a new chief constable , to take control of this situation ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question , the way he pose it and the point behind it . the senior management team be a strong and effective unit , and the Policing Board have a lot on its plate at this point in time . I believe it have even launch a review into how the Policing Board itself operate . I be quite sure that question be be ask about what can be do in this space but , as of now , I can update the House only on what I have do . cost of live what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the increase cost of live on people in Northern Ireland . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the increase cost of live on people in Northern Ireland . the UK Government be acutely aware of the cost of living pressure experience in all part of the UK since the onset of war in Ukraine . we provide an estimate £ 2 billion of financial support to Northern Ireland , include more than £ 1 billion in the form of the energy price guarantee and the additional £ 600 payment to help household with the rise cost of energy . tackle inflation continue to be a top priority for this Government . every country in the world be have to deal with the impact of the war in Ukraine and the impact of the pandemic , but only one country be have to deal with the impact of Brexit , which be what be drive up price and the cost of live for people in Northern Ireland and across the UK , isn ' t it ? I be incline just to say no . the reality be that this conversation will keep go to and fro . we have leave the European Union and we be stay out of the European Union . our task be to make sure that we flourish as a nation outside the EU , and I wish the hon . Gentleman would just get behind it and move on . in June this year , accord to research by the Trussell Trust , one in six people across Northern Ireland face hunger , with nearly half of those refer to Trussell Trust food bank be child under the age of 16 . in Scotland , primary school child get a £ 120 uniform grant and secondary school pupil get a £ 150 uniform grant , but the amount in Wales in Northern Ireland be almost a quarter of that . give that parent be choose between spend money on back - to - school supply or on food , what step be the Minister take to ease the cost of living pressure on family in Northern Ireland ? as I say , we provide a large sum of money to ease cost of living pressure in Northern Ireland . the hon . gentleman mention food bank , which be very much on my mind , give the scale of the food bank in Wycombe . I be very well aware of the cost of living pressure in Northern Ireland . we continue to put large sum of money into Northern Ireland , but it would be much well to deal with all these issue in the presence of a restore executive . may I join in the congratulation to my right hon . friend on his first anniversary ? I also thank the new shadow Secretary of State for the huge contribution he have make as vice - chairman of the UK - EU Parliamentary Partnership Assembly . in welcome the money that have be provide to Northern Ireland to help with the cost of living pressure , do the Minister agree that it would be even well , and more efficiently spend , if the Executive be back up and run ? yes , I absolutely do ; my right hon . and learn Friend be right on that . time and again we be ask to intervene , and every time we be ask to intervene that be a call for direct rule . we do not intend to get into direct rule . it would be far well if local decision be take by a locally accountable executive . the Government have show their commitment to support the people of Northern Ireland through the recent increase in the cost of living . in the absence of an Executive — we all accept that one be absolutely necessary — will my hon . friend assure I that the Government will continue to intervene where necessary for the people of Northern Ireland ? we will continue to work for the people of Northern Ireland , respect the devolution settlement . for example , in recognition of the cost of living pressure face by worker across the UK , the Government increase the national minimum wage rate by 9 . 7 % , to £ 10 . 42 per hour for worker age 23 and over , at the spring Budget . we will continue to be seize of the need to help those least well off . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the cost of living crisis be clearly continue to bite hard in Northern Ireland , with footfall at store across Northern Ireland fall by 5 % throughout August . what step be the Department take to enable people to take full advantage of the highly privileged economic status and market access that Northern Ireland now have , which this Government have deprive to the rest of the UK ? I disagree with the hon . Gentleman ' s use of the term " deprive " , but I be happy to tell he that next week we have the Northern Ireland investment summit . we be determined to attract private sector investment into Northern Ireland and to promote inclusion in that growth . Northern Ireland have a fantastically vibrant economy , and I very much hope that the least well - off will have opportunity through our investment in skill to develop themselves and to secure more well pay job in Northern Ireland , so that they can move on . Economic Trends what recent assessment he have make of trend in the Northern Ireland economy ; and if he will make a statement . we routinely monitor trend in the Northern Ireland economy . it have the ingredient require for economic success : exceptional talent , creativity and innovation . although challenge persist , recent indicator suggest resilience and the potential for growth . this Government remain committed to foster a productive environment for economic development and prosperity in Northern Ireland . I look forward to our investment summit between 12 and 13 September — next week — which be a fantastic opportunity to showcase Northern Ireland ' s economic potential to the world . I thank the Minister for that encourage response . he will be aware that Northern Ireland ' s large trading partner by a very long way be Great Britain . it be therefore important that there be frictionless trade between Great Britain and Northern Ireland , so will he update the House on what discussion he have have on the future operation of the green channel ? one of our priority now be the successful implementation of the Windsor framework and that green channel . we will continue to have conversation with colleague in the Cabinet Office who lead the Windsor framework taskforce . I assure my hon . friend that we be determined to ensure that that system work as seamlessly for everyone . will the Minister confirm that at next week ' s investment conference the Government will proactively market Northern Ireland ' s dual market access under the Windsor framework ? yes , I can confirm that . I be absolutely determined that we shall do so . indeed , next week I shall chair a session on that issue . this be not just about access as of right to the UK market and as a privilege to the EU market ; it be also about be under our service regulation , which be an advantage , in combination with access to our free trade agreement , such as the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . this be a unique opportunity in all of the world , include right across the EU , and I be convinced that he and I , and we all , should make the most of it . restoration of Power Sharing what step his Department be take to help restore power sharing in Northern Ireland . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and it be good to see he in his place . our focus remain on deliver for the people of Northern Ireland , who expect and deserve locally elect decision maker to address the issue that matter to they . I continue to engage regularly with all party leader and speak to they very regularly indeed . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer , but the lack of a functioning devolve Government in Northern Ireland mean that there be direct consequence for its people , as be evidence by the high waiting list in the UK , which would not be tolerate elsewhere . in the absence of a restoration of power sharing , there need to be a plan b — what be it ? obviously , all my energy be spend on try to resolve the issue in order to allow the DUP to come back to Stormont and get the Executive up and run . there be myriad option available if we be to go down different route , but I be afraid none of they be as ideal as Stormont function and the institution of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement all be stand up . there be a big opportunity over the come week to restore the Northern Ireland Executive . do the Secretary of State agree with I that key to that be the UK , Dublin and the EU listen hard to the concern of the DUP about implementation of the Windsor agreement ? I thank the former Secretary of State for that question ; he be absolutely right . we have be listen in great detail to the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , the DUP leader , and his team of negotiator over the course of the summer . we have have very detailed negotiation and I believe we be home in on what be actually require . that might well mean we need conversation elsewhere , but let we see where we get to in the course of the next couple of day . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Windsor framework , which be agree seven month ago , be a great achievement , but it be also intend to enable the restoration of power sharing in Northern Ireland . that have not happen . what be the Government ' s plan ? the Secretary of State refer to the conversation he be have , but what be the plan to get Stormont back up and run ? I sincerely welcome the right hon . gentleman to his place and thank he for his question . currently , there be issue with one particular political party . we be talk to that party on a very regular basis at this point in time . those talk have move forward substantially , but he would have to check in with the DUP leadership to see if I be correct . just because the right hon . Gentleman can not see that do not mean that it be not happen . one thing I have learn , as I have say many time from this Dispatch Box , be that just because talk be be hold in a confidential manner do not mean that they be not take place and move forward . the Secretary of State know that there be concern in the Unionist community about unfettered access for Northern Ireland business trade with Great Britain . the Government say last month in the border target operating model that they be commit to that access , as we all be , and that : " these arrangement will be enshrine and far strengthen in domestic legislation " . can he tell the House when that legislation will be introduce ? hopefully in very short order , dependent on make sure we have get it exactly right , so it answer the question and allow Stormont and the Executive to re - form . Postal Communications : Customs what step he be take to help ensure that postal communication between Britain and Northern Ireland be deliver without custom declaration . under the Windsor framework , send parcel to friend and family in Northern Ireland will be as smooth and easy as it be today , remove any burdensome paperwork , cost or delay . Northern Ireland consumer will be able to order from business in the rest of the UK and receive good in the post as they do now , without customs process or burdensome cost . this will maintain consumer choice for british good in Northern Ireland . business send good to other business will use our new green lane . a number of constituent and consumer have contact I to highlight that many eBay or Amazon provider will no long ship to Northern Ireland as they state that they can not afford the enhance fee , demonstrate that Northern Ireland continue to be treat differently . it be cost small business and individual the ability to shop around . what step can the Minister take to revisit the framework with our EU counterpart , to ensure free and fair trade throughout the United Kingdom that be clear and easy to follow for all business ? under the protocol as it be , all parcel would have need to complete full international custom process . I believe that the supplier to whom the hon . Gentleman refer will be make their plan under the protocol as it be . under the Windsor framework , parcel to consumer will not be subject to those burdensome process . he remind we all that we need to redouble our effort to communicate to supplier the message that they will be able to take advantage of a new green lane and supply to consumer in Northern Ireland . it be a subject close to my heart , and I can see that it be extremely close to his too . public Finances what step his Department be take to ensure the sustainability of Northern Ireland ' s public finance . the Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Bill 2023 - 24 be progress through Parliament and be due to be debate in the other House next week . the Secretary of State have use his power to request information and advice from the Northern Ireland civil service on measure that could generate revenue and improve the sustainability of public finance . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . I congratulate he and the Secretary of State on their anniversary and pay tribute to they for all they have do in the past year . some have suggest that we could reform the Barnett formula to address the sustainability of public finance in Northern Ireland , but do my hon . friend agree that that be not a silver bullet , and that trade - off will need to be make to fund public service ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for his question . this be a very important point . although we will remain open to discuss proposal put to we by the Northern Ireland party , it would not be a silver bullet to reform the Barnett formula . an Executive will still need to make trade - off when they decide to spend scarce resource . negotiation between the Welsh Government and the Treasury on a fiscal framework , which include an adjustment to the Barnett formula , take place over seven year , so , with the good will in the world , it be not an issue that can be solve overnight . what we need be a function Executive and we stand ready to work with that Executive . in the meantime , we will continue to engage with the Northern Ireland civil service on a range of measure that could improve fiscal sustainability . let I welcome the shadow Minister . early year service be vital for child to reach their potential , but they be underfunde and at risk in Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland be the only part of the UK without a childcare strategy . accord to the Department for Education , it be delay again because early year face potential significant budget reduction . when can hard - press family in Northern Ireland expect the childcare strategy ? will the Minister commit to early year service receive the increase multi - year funding that be need to invest in child ? I be glad to welcome the hon . Lady to her place . as she know , education be devolve in Northern Ireland and it be a matter for the Education Department there to take these decision , but her point be well make , and I be confident that , when she make her first visit to Northern Ireland , like I she will be engage with all party on just such issue . Electricity Generation what recent discussion he have hold with the Department for the Economy official on electricity generation and supply after 30 September 2023 . my official and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be engage with the Northern Ireland Department for the Economy to understand the fact and to assess any extra requirement . energy be a devolved matter . I thank the Secretary of State for that response , but can he indicate to people who be concerned about recent newspaper speculation on the future of generation and supply in October and beyond that it be secure and that there will be no hiccup or hiatus between now and Christmas ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his supplementary question . Northern Ireland benefit from be part of the United Kingdom with access to electricity from Great Britain through the interconnector , and it also benefit from be part of the single electricity market on the island of Ireland . I and the Minister of State work hard to ensure that that be preserve during the UK ' s exit from the European Union . we be work very closely with all official across Government here and in the Northern Ireland civil service to ensure that the right preparation be in place for the winter . Veterinary Products and Horticultural Stock what recent assessment he have make of the availability of ( a ) veterinary product and ( b ) horticultural stock in Northern Ireland . the cliff edge on veterinary medicine have be remove , protect the supply of those medicine in Northern Ireland through to 2025 , while we work through sustainable , long - term solution . we be much more optimistic about reach those solution in the context of the Windsor framework . there will no long be any need for costly phytosanitary certificate for each movement of plant stay in the UK . we have pave the way for 11 ban plant specie to move again by the time of the next planting season . these be priority case identify by the industry itself , and we have progress further case since announce the Windsor framework . we be work closely with a wide range of stakeholder to ensure that gardener , farmer and grower can access plant and seed from a wide variety of source . with regard to veterinary medicine , I fear the Minister ' s sunny optimism may be somewhat misplaced . after all , his preferred stakeholder — Mr Bernard Van Goethem , the deputy director general for food sustainability — have make it abundantly clear to DEFRA and the UK Government that the negotiation on this matter be " over " . the deal be do . there will be no change to veterinary medicine . this mean that insulin will no long be available in Northern Ireland for animal . veterinary medicine for botulism — 144 , 000 be issue last year — will no long be available . what will the Secretary of State and the Minister do about this ? the hon . Gentleman have present I with information about which I be not aware beforehand . I be certainly happy to look at what have be say , but what I would say to he be that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister do the deal that no one say could be do . that have transform the relationship with the European Union , and I be therefore confident that we will be able to deliver a deal on veterinary medicine . as we sometimes say , I do not recognise the information that the hon . Gentleman have present . it be new to I , and I shall be glad to look at it , but we will certainly have to deliver a deal . the Ulster Farmers Union estimate that 1 , 700 veterinary medicine could be withdraw from the market in Northern Ireland unless the Windsor framework be fix . I urge the Minister to do that . certainly . my right hon . friend make her point with great clarity . of course , have make it on an occasion such as this , it have be hear by a wide range of Ministers , and I be confident that we will be able to redouble our effort to deliver what we need on veterinary medicine . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — engagement I welcome everybody back to Prime Minister ' s question . if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 6 September . I would like to start by congratulate Sarina Wiegman and the Lionesses on their fantastic performance at the World cup . we be all incredibly proud of they . I also know that the whole House will join I in send condolence to the family , friend and colleague of Sergeant Graham Saville . it be testament to his bravery that he die in the line of duty , and a terrible reminder of the work that the police do every day to keep we safe . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . the Labour party use to claim that it represent working - class people , but labour ' s ultra low emission zone expansion to Greater London will now hammer million of work people with bill of £ 12 . 50 per day , or £ 4 , 500 per year . do the Prime Minister agree that it be unacceptable that londoner and those in surround county face this regressive and unacceptable tax , and will he do everything that he can to help work people ? I agree with my hon . friend . it be disappointing that last week the Labour leader allow the Labour Mayor to introduce ULEZ , charge hard - work people £ 12 . 50 every time they start their car , add to the burden of the cost of living . all I can say be that while we focus on help hard - work family , all the labour leader do be punish they . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I join the Prime Minister in congratulate the Lionesses , and also in his comment about Sergeant Saville ; I think we speak for the whole House when we speak on that subject . I also extend the warm welcome to my hon . friend the new Labour Member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) . he have already make history for the Labour party by overturn the large Tory majority ever in a by - election . I also welcome the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) and for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) . the roof of Singlewell Primary School in Gravesend collapse in May 2018 . thankfully , it happen at the weekend and no child be injure . the concrete ceiling be deem dangerous and liable to collapse , and everyone know that the problem exist in other school , yet the Prime Minister decide to halve the budget for school maintenance just a couple of year later . do he agree with his Education Secretary that he should be thank for do a " good job " ? I know how concerned parent , child and teacher be , and I want to start by assure they that the Government be do everything that we can to fix this quickly , and minimise the disruption to child ' s education . we make no apology for act decisively in the face of new information . let I provide the House with an update on where we be . of the 22 , 000 school in England , the vast majority will not be affect . in fact , in two third of inspection of suspect school , RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — be not actually present . to tackle the 1 % of school that have be affect so far , we be assign each school a dedicated caseworker and provide extra funding to fix the problem . in the majority of case , child will attend school as normal , and the mitigation take typically just day or week to complete . we will do everything we can to help parent , support teacher and get child back to normal school life as quickly as possible . Wood Green Academy in Sandwell be on Labour ' s building list in 2010 . the Conservatives scrap it , and now child there be in a crumble school . the head of the National Audit Office accuse the Prime Minister of take a " stick plaster approach " . the NAO report say he cut £ 869 million . the person who run the Department for Education say the Prime Minister be personally responsible . on Monday , he leap to his own defence , say it be " utterly wrong " to blame he — so why do literally everyone else say it be his fault ? the professional advice from the technical expert on RAAC have evolve over time . indeed , it be something that successive government have deal with , date back to 1994 . as new advice have come forward , the Government have rightly , decisively and swiftly act in the face of that advice . the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about school budget and what I have do , but let I just walk he through the fact of what that spending review actually do , because he bring it up — [ interruption . ] no , he bring it up , so presumably he would like to hear the fact . funding for school maintenance and rebuilding will average £ 2 . 6 billion a year over this Parliament as a result of that spending review , represent a 20 % increase on the year before . indeed , far from cut budget as he allege , the amount spend last year be the high in a decade . that spending review maintain the school rebuilding programme , deliver 500 school over a decade , a pace completely consistent with what have happen previously . it be worth point out that , during the parliamentary debate on that spending review , the Labour party , and he , do not raise the issue of RAAC one single time . before he jump on the next political bandwagon , he should get his fact straight . Carmel College in Darlington be on Labour ' s building list in 2010 . the Conservatives scrap it , and now child there be in a crumble school . on the one hand , we have the Prime Minister say it be nothing to do with he , and on the other hand we have the fact . there be a simple way to clear this up . why do he not commit to publish the request from the Department for Education for the school rebuilding programme and what risk he be warn of before he turn they down ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman have now bring up twice the labour school rebuilding programme , so let we just look at the fact surround it , because we do know the truth about that programme . the NAO , which he have call on , review that programme later on , and what do it find ? it find that Labour ' s school rebuilding programme exclude 80 % of school . next , what do it find ? it find that it be one third more expensive than it need to be , needlessly waste resource that have go to school . the bad bit — because now he be talk about the physical condition of school — be that that programme allocate fund solely on the basis of ideology , with no regard whatsoever to the physical condition of school . that be why the independent James review describe the programme as " time consume " and " expensive " — just like the Labour party . More ! order . we do not want to start off with somebody leave early , because that be what will happen . well , Mr Speaker , Conservative Members want more , so let I continue . Ferryhill School in County Durham be on Labour ' s building list in 2010 . the Government scrap that , and now child there be in a crumble school . the truth be that this crisis be the inevitable result of 13 year of cut corner , botched job and stick plaster politic . it be the sort of thing you expect from cowboy builder : say that everyone else be wrong and everyone else be to blame , and protest that they have do an eff good job even as the ceiling fall in . the difference be that in this case , the cowboy be run the country . be the Prime Minister not ashame that , after 13 year of Tory Government , child be cower under steel support stop their classroom roof from fall in ? [ interruption . ] order . seriously , calm down . I understand that this be the first session and people be excited to be back at school , but we expect well behaviour . this be exactly the kind of political opportunism that we have come to expect from Captain Hindsight here . before today , he have never once raise this issue with I across the Dispatch Box . it be not even worthy of a single — [ interruption . ] order . the same apply to those on the Labour Benches . we will have a calm Question Time go forward , because I want to hear the question and the answer , just like your constituent . before today , the right hon . and learn Gentleman never once raise this issue with I in Parliament . it be not even worthy of a single mention in his so - call landmark speech on education this summer . if we have listen to he , our kid would have be off school and lock down for long — it be as simple as that . he talk about 13 year ; well , let we see what have happen . when we come into office , two third of school be rate " good " and " outstanding " ; now , it be 90 % . we introduce the pupil premium to get more funding to the most disadvantaged pupil . today , they be 75 % more likely to go to university . and , as a result of our reform , we now have the good reader in the western world . that be what 13 year of education reform get you , all of which be oppose by the Labour party . the Prime Minister claim to be a man of detail , but there have be 100 parliamentary question from the opposition on this issue , and an Opposition day motion . let we continue : Holy Family Catholic School in Bradford be on the Labour building list in 2010 . the Government scrap that , and now child there too be in a crumble school — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Holden , I have hear enough . this be the last time ; make up your mind . either you go now or you be quiet for the remainder . if you can believe it , Mr Speaker , in April this year , the Education Secretary sign a contract for refurbishment of her office . it have her personal stamp of approval on it . it cost — I can not quite believe this — £ 34 million . can the Prime Minister explain to parent whose child be not at school this week why he think that a blank cheque for a Tory Minister ' s office be well use of taxpayer ' s money than stop school from collapse ? what I say to parent be that , on the receipt of new information , we have act decisively to ensure the safety of child and minimise disruption to education , as we have lay out and communicate extensively . that be the right thing to do . I also gently point out to the right hon . and learn Gentleman that , while the Department for Education start this process 18 month ago in spring of last year , as far as I can tell , labour - run Wales still do not know which school be affect . the right hon . and learn Gentleman bring up funding , so again , let we look back to what happen in that spending review . in that spending review , I increase the Department for Education ' s capital budget by 25 % to a record £ 7 billion ; it triple the amount that we spend on child with special educational need and disability ; it improve the condition of the overlook further education estate ; and it set the course for per - pupil funding to be the high ever . crucially , it also invest £ 5 billion to help our pupil recover the lost learning from covid . he might remember that , because we want pupil learn ; he want long lockdown . I just do not think the Prime Minister get how , " it ' s all fine out there " be at odd with the live experience of million of work people across this country . let we go on — this be a long list . in 2010 , at least six school in Essex be on Labour ' s building list ; the Government scrap they and now child there be in crumble school . the Prime Minister will not admit that the reason he cut budget and ignore the warning be quite simple : just as he think his tax rise be for other family to pay , he think his school cut be for other family to endure . do that not tell we everything we need to know ? he be happy to spend million of taxpayer ' money spruce up Tory office , and billion to ensure that there be no vat on Tory school fee , but he will not lift a finger when it come to protect other people ' s school , other people ' s safety and other people ' s child . I know that the right hon . and learn Gentleman come here with prepared script , but he have not listen to a single fact , over six question , about the record amount of funding go into school , or the incredible reform to education impact the most disadvantaged child in our society — a record that we be rightly proud of . yes , we can name the school : that be because we be react to information and publish it so that we know where the issue be — something that we be still wait for from the Welsh Government . of course the right hon . and learn Gentleman want to score political point from something that we be deal with in the right and responsible way , but I note that he have not mention a single other thing that have happen since we last meet at the Dispatch Box . he talk about hard - work family across Britain , but what have happen to energy bill ? down . what have happen to inflation ? down . what have happen to small boat crossing ? down . and what have happen to economic growth ? it have go up . the right hon . and learn Gentleman try time and again to talk down the british economy , but thankfully , people be not listen . his entire economic narrative have be demolish , and the Conservatives be get on deliver for Britain . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] there will be more . I call Nicola Richards . against a backdrop of improve economic news , inflation fall , energy bill come down and growth up , people in the west midland be disappointed to see that labour - run Birmingham City Council have go bankrupt . as a Sandwell resident and a West Bromwich MP , I be no strange to labour incompetence . do the Prime Minister agree that Labour have demonstrate yet again that they always run out of other people ' s money ? my hon . friend be exactly right . we start by hear how Labour in London be charge hard - work people with ULEZ , and now we be hear about how Labour in Birmingham be fail hard - work people , lose control of taxpayer ' money and drive their finance into the ground . they have bankrupt Birmingham ; we can not let they bankrupt Britain . we come to the SNP leader . the public need no reminding that today mark a year since the Prime Minister ' s predecessor , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , take office . upon her speedy departure , they will have think that thing be go to get well , but unemployment figure be high , food price be high , mortgage rate be high , and economic growth be stagnant . when be the Prime Minister go to get off his backside and do something about it ? what the hon . Gentleman fail to point out be the amount of time I have sit across the Dispatch Box from he and his colleague and hear how somehow , we be a laggard when it come to growth . he do not take the opportunity to correct the record now that figure have be publish , which demonstrate that in fact , we have the fast recovery of any european economy after covid . Mr Speaker , you would be forgive for think that the Prime Minister think everything be all right , but let we look at his proposal for a winter cost of live package . on energy bill , his plan be to do nothing ; on mortgage bill , his plan be to do nothing ; and on food bill , his plan be to do nothing . when the Secretary of State for Education say early this week that everyone be do nothing , she be refer to the Prime Minister , wasn ' t she ? I think the hon . Gentleman be a little out of practice , because we have pay around half a typical family ' s energy bill over the past year . that be support worth £ 1 , 500 , benefit family in Scotland . on mortgage , the Chancellor ' s mortgage charter cover 90 % of the mortgage market , and ensure that a typical mortgage holder can save hundred of pound a month on mortgage refinancing . on energy , thank to the action of this Government , we be support the hundred of thousand of job in the scottish oil and gas industry , secure this country ' s energy supply , which he oppose . I will always do what be right for the people of Scotland , and it be time the SNP do the same . I be delighted when the Prime Minister say last year that , on his watch , we would " not lose swathe " of farmland to solar application , instead rightly argue for solar to be instal on rooftop , yet my constituency see a constant flow of planning application for solar farm and battery storage plant on food - produce land . can I ask my right hon . friend : when will his pledge become a reality ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . Solar be one of the cheap form of electricity generation , so it be right that we try and see more of it across the country , but we do need to protect our most valuable agricultural land so that it can produce food for the nation and increase our food security . that be why , thank to our change , the planning system now set this out explicitly with a clear preference for brownfield site . of course , we want to do more to encourage barn - top solar , and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will be update the House with further information on that policy in due course . last week , the Prime Minister state that he be " proud " of his furlough scheme . I wonder if he be equally proud of the £ 400 billion he put on the national debt and the inflation it have cause . be he proud of the job lose , business close and life crush due to the lockdown ? be he proud of the increase NHS waiting list , premature death and the 1 million young people now need mental health support ? finally , be he proud of the excess death affect every one of our constituency that nobody want to talk about , and will he give an undertaking to the british public — a solemn under - taking — that they will never be inflict upon they again ? as the hon . Gentleman know , there be a formal inquiry regard covid , which will examine all the decision that be make , include lockdown , and the impact of they . but with regard to the furlough scheme , I be proud that , at a time of extreme anxiety in the country , face an unprecedented situation , this Government put their arm around the british public to ensure that we protect 10 million job . as the report from the Office for National Statistics show last week , those action , combine with all the other thing we do to support the economy , ensure that we have the fast recovery through the pandemic of any european nation . as we be a nation of animal lover , the Conservative Government ' s record on animal welfare be a source of great pride , but , sadly , too many abuse remain — from pet theft , the smuggling of puppy and heavily pregnant dog and dog with their ear horrifically crop to the illegal export of horse to Europe for slaughter . these issue be personal to I as a veterinary surgeon and to my constituent , especially animal theft and livestock worry . can the Prime Minister reassure the House that animal welfare be a key Government priority , and that he will bring forward the necessary legislation to tackle these issue as soon as possible ? may I thank my hon . friend for both raise this issue and also his work and expertise in the area ? I be proud that , thank to the action that previous government have take on thing like cat microchipping , the ivory ban and raise the maximum sentence for animal cruelty to five year , we be now the high rank G7 nation on World Animal Protection ' s animal protection index , but we be determined to go even far and deliver on our manifesto commitment individually during the remainder of this Parliament . the Prime Minister have say he will lead a Government of honesty , accountability and integrity , so can he explain how he be find to have breach the code of conduct , this time for fail to declare his wife ' s share in a childcare agency that receive a monetary boost from measure in his Budget ? if the hon . Lady read the full transcript and the full finding , she will see a detailed explanation of what happen , which the commissioner describe as a " minor and inadvertent " breach , give that at the time I be not aware of the policy that be be discuss with I , and correct it later on and could have correct it with slightly different language . she will also know that I be not the only person across these Dispatch Boxes that have have the same thing happen to they . may I interest the Prime Minister in proposal from the commission for carbon competitiveness , which I chair , that would deliver net zero cheaply and without deindustrialise our economy ? it would help british manufacturer face import from country with low energy cost , make our export more competitive everywhere , and cut fuel duty at home . we have strong backing from Britain ' s heavy industry , and cross - party support from the excellent hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , whose name be also on the Order Paper . would the Prime Minister consider add his name to our list of supporter as well ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and the commission for carbon competitiveness for the report that he have work on and highlight , and the Government be absolutely committed to put in place the necessary policy for UK industry to decarbonise successfully . as he will be aware , the Government recently consult on address carbon leakage in particular , with a range of potential option . we be in the process of consider those response , and will issue a formal response in due course . every year , billion of wet wipe go out into our river and ocean , and clog up our sewer . I have be campaign for year to ban plastic in wet wipe . the Government have finally promise to ban plastic in wet wipe , but that be five month ago and there have be nothing since then . will the Prime Minister today finally give a date for when that ban will come into force and make a difference to our environment , or be this another broken promise from his zombie Government ? in the comprehensive " plan for Water " that be publish by the Environment Secretary in April , we confirm our intention to ban wet wipe contain plastic , subject , as be legally proper , to a public consultation . that consultation will be launch in the come month , in autumn this year , and I know Ministers will keep the House update on progress . I would like to offer some assistance on the small boat issue . have my right hon . friend consider the incongruity of the fact that a UK dinghy manufacturer try to sell into the EU market would have to apply the CE marking , custom code and could be stop and check , and a similar situation apply , perversely , with a simple thing like Great Britain to Northern Ireland trade ? but none of that apply , seemingly , when huge , supersize , dangerous cut - and - shut dinghy be take from Turkey , across the EU border into Bulgaria and Greece . be my right hon . friend as confuse as I be by the EU ' s double standard on that matter ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we must do all we can to stop the boat and tackle illegal migration . we know that the export of small boat across part of the european continent be a vital element of the smuggling gang ' tactic . that be why , specifically , we be step up joint operation with Turkey — I raise this with the President when we speak — so that we can tackle organise immigration crime , and specifically disrupt the supply chain of boat part that be use for these dangerous crossing . I will continue to keep he update on our progress . two year ago in Plymouth , we lose five people in the bad mass shoot the country have see for a decade . the Government have finally consult on firearm reform , but after pressure from shoot group , even those sensible measure look like they could be water down . will the Prime Minister bow down to lobbyist from the shooting industry , or will he stand with the grieve family , and with those in Plymouth who want to see no tragedy like this ever happen again , with strong gun law ? I know how important this issue be to the hon . Gentleman , follow the horrific shooting in his constituency , and my thought be with the family of all those who be kill . he will know that firearm be subject to stringent control , and rightly so , but those control be keep under constant review . for example , we have take action to improve information sharing between GPs and the police , to ensure that people be not give access to firearm without their medical condition be check . there be statutory guidance that the chief officer of police have be improve , so that how people apply for firearm be assess properly , include check on social medium . on the matter that the hon . Gentleman specifically raise , the Home Office be in the process of consider response to that consultation , and will respond in due course . later today , I be bring forward a ten - minute rule Bill , to include the provision of automate external defibrillator in all new housing development of 10 dwelling or more . will my right hon . friend support that provision , and ask his relevant Cabinet colleague to engage with I to ensure that these life - save piece of equipment can become commonplace where they can have the most impact , close to people ' s home ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of these lifesave device . that be why the national planning policy framework already expect planning policy and decision to promote public safety , but it be also why recently the Government launch a million - pound fund that will place around 1 , 000 new defibrillator in community across England to help improve equality of access to these lifesave device . in 2019 , the Outwood Academy Riverside free school application in Middlesbrough be approve , with its first year 7 intake arrive the follow year . there have be far intake every year since , but there be still no new building . I have have no response to my request for a meeting with the Secretary of State , but that original intake be destine to spend their entire secondary education in various temporary adapted premise . with pupil be shunt around old building , talk of level up and address the GCSE attainment gap ring hollow . will the Prime Minister and his Education Secretary get off their derri è re and sort this out ? I be happy to ensure that the hon . Gentleman get an answer to his specific question on that school , but more generally I be proud of what the Government be do in Teesside and Tees Valley to support education , not only with the recent announcement of new sixth form , but also it be an education investment area receive extra funding and resource . that be why we have see standard in reading and math increase considerably , and we be determined to keep go . the Prime Minister be aware of how the RAAC issue have affect school in Essex . we have a high number of school that have be impact . he have rightly say today that the Government be do everything they can to get child back to school . I know there be a debate on this later today , but will he commit to fully fund both the capital and revenue cost associate with get child back into school ? I hope he will commit to meet the leader of Essex County Council , because it be pioneer some great reform right now , where it be look to support maintain school as well as academy trust . I think the Government could get some good insight into how we can get child back to school fast and look at the funding model . first , I thank my right hon . friend for her constructive engagement with the Department . I pay tribute to her school leader and local authority for everything they be do . I be happy to give she the reassurance , as the Chancellor have already say , that new funding will be provide to school to deal with this issue . to ensure that we can get through this as quickly as possible for my right hon . friend ' s constituent and parent — and , indeed , everyone else ' s — the Department for Education be in the process of increase the number of dedicated caseworker from 50 to 80 . we have 35 project director regionally on the ground to support , and we have more than double the number of survey firm , so that we can rapidly over the next few week fully assess all the relevant school and have a mitigation plan in place . steel - worker in my constituency have watch in frustration as other government have pump investment into decarbonisation while successive Tory government have sit on their hand . when will the Prime Minister finally conclude the talk with Tata Steel ? can he guarantee that level of investment will match what other european government be do on decarbonisation ? and will he guarantee that the conclusion will be base on serious engagement , comprehensively with the steel union ? steel be absolutely vital to the UK . this matter be of course of interest to the hon . Gentleman , but I have also discuss it extensively with my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , and that be because the industry support local job and economic growth . conversation with specific company , such as Tata , be ongoing , but they be understandably commercially sensitive . we share the ambition of secure a decarbonised , sustainable and competitive future for the industry in this country . in the meantime , we be support the sector with our energy - intensive industry exemption , which provide discount energy bill . we also have the industrial energy transformation fund , which support steel company with their energy bill and the transition through capital to a green future . two week ago the Government announce that the Bolsover School ' s bid for a sixth form in my constituency have be successful . across the country , some 52 % of school leaver at 16 year old go on to a sixth form , but in Bolsover it be 23 % , in Clowne it be 22 % , and in Shirebrook it be 7 % . will the Prime Minister join I in thank the Redhill Academy Trust , Matthew Hall , the headteacher of Bolsover School , and all those who have help to bring a sixth form to Bolsover ? I congratulate Redhill and everyone involve with the successful bid for the new sixth form in Bolsover . I be delighted that the bid be successful . I know that my hon . friend share my desire to ensure a world - class education for every single one of our young people across the country , because that be the good way to provide they with the opportunity for a well life . the new programme of sixth form will deliver that in his constituency and many other across the nation . the north - east have be underfunde in term of transport investment for decade . HS2 , which be mean to be an economic development and connectivity lifeline , be now not come anywhere near , the A1 Northumberland dualle decision have be delay yet again , and our regional rail service be still run on outdated infrastructure and roll stock . with all that in mind , will the Prime Minister commit the funding to reopen the Leamside line from Gateshead to County Durham to take pressure off the east coast main line and aid economic wellbeing and the movement of passenger and freight service in the north - east of England ? or be level - up just rhetoric ? obviously , it would not be right for I to comment on specific project , but to give the hon . Gentleman a sense of our commitment , what I can tell he be that in real term since 2010 we have spend over a third more in central capital investment in northern transport every single year compare with Labour ' s last six year in government . that be what we be do for northern transportation . specifically , when it come to reopen and restore railway line , where be the first one that we do ? from Ashington to Blyth . I have a cheerful question that I know my right hon . friend the Prime Minister will find impossible to resist . he will be aware of the work that I have be do with no . 10 ' s UK Ambassador for mental health , Dr Alex George , to establish early intervention mental health hub across the country . we have get the pilot , which seem to be lose somewhere between the Treasury and the Department of Health — I know he will sort that problem out — but will he meet Dr Alex George and I to discuss it far ? these hub will make a massive difference in constituency across the country . we all know the problem with child and adolescent mental health service and the perverse situation where child and young people have to get progressively bad before they get the treatment they need . I know that the Prime Minister will be very supportive of this one , Mr Speaker . I know that my hon . friend be rightly a passionate advocate for improve mental health support for young people , which be something I know we be do , and I be proud of our record , particularly in increase the number of mental health support team who work with school and expand community service . I know that the Department of Health and Social Care be look at the role that early support hub might play in this plan , but I be happy to meet my hon . friend personally to discuss how we can push this through . we have hear far too much lately about ministerial posterior and little about prosperity for the country . even in these die day of a lame - duck Government , will the Prime Minister stop prevaricate and subscribe to the Horizon programme for the sake of vital british science , innovation and cancer research ? this Government be invest record sum in british science and research and development , because we believe that be critical to a bright economic future and spread opportunity . our priority and preference be to associate to Horizon , but we want to make sure that that be on term that be right both for the british taxpayer and for british science and research . I can commit to the hon . Lady that we have be extensively involve in discussion . I hope to be able to conclude those successfully and , when we do , I hope she will be the first to stand up and congratulate the Government . September be Childhood Cancer Awareness Month , but it also mark two year since the death of my constituent Sophie Fairall . she be only 10 year old . every day in the UK , 10 young people will be diagnose with cancer , and two of those will not survive . those who do face a lifetime of side effect from treatment that be just not design for small body . when will the Prime Minister publish a childhood cancer action plan ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I extend my sympathy to her constituent ' s family , as she raise . she be right to continue campaign in this important area . I hope she will understand that I can not pre - empt the specific content of the strategy , but I can tell she that it will draw on previous work , include submission from childhood cancer charity and stakeholder to our recent call for evidence . of course , we want to hear from they to highlight and get a sense of the issue that she specifically raise , but I will ensure that we write to she to give she a sense of the timing . every year the SNP Scottish Government mitigate against the cruell of Westminster policy by spend £ 84 million on support hard - work family against the brutal bedroom tax and over £ 6 . 2 million on cover the two - child benefit cap . astonishingly , we have learn over the summer that the Leader of the Opposition be an enthusiastic supporter of these Tory cruel welfare policy , with u - turn after u - turn from the Labour party . give that the Tories and Labour be two cheek of the same arse — [ " oh ! ] — offer no change , no vision and no hope , do the Prime Minister agree that the only way scottish voter can rid themselves — order . I be not go to have we both stand up ; one of we be go to give way , and it will not be I . let we think about language . let we be more temperate and make sure that the pride of this Parliament shine through — that certainly will not be by use such language . I be happy to change the offend word to " bottom " . give that the Tories and Labour be two cheek of the same bottom , offer no change , no vision and no hope , do the Prime Minister agree that the only way for scottish voter to rid themselves of these heinous policy be to vote for the SNP to leave Westminster forever ? obviously not . I think the thrust of that question be direct at the Leader of the Opposition rather than I , and I would not want to get in the middle of that . what I can say be that we want to ensure a welfare system that be compassionate and look after the most vulnerable in our society , while support into work those who can do so , because that be also fair for everyone else and british taxpayer . I believe that be a system that we be achieve . right now , we be provide people in Scotland with thousand of pound of support to help with energy bill and everything else , and we will continue to do so . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister say that my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the opposition have never raise the issue of school building safety before , and he specifically mention his education speech early this summer . that be categorically untrue . I wonder if the Prime Minister want to correct the record . my right hon . and learn Friend mention it as part of that speech , in fact . it have also be raise by the opposition more than 180 time in this House , and be the subject of an Opposition day debate , in the name of the Leader of the Opposition , in May . I be sure that the Prime Minister would not want to give the House the wrong impression . the hon . Lady have raise the point of order quite correctly , and have correct the record herself . I be sure that the Prime Minister will be notify of the point she have raise . we will leave it for now and see what happen . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . may I seek your guidance on how hon . member may hold energy company to account for their shortcoming with their business customer ? I have be in contact with EDF Energy for a number of month over its multiple failure that have severely impact the Circle , a wonderful community interest company in Easterhouse . edf ' s multiple failure to correct the mistake be incredibly worrying . I seek your guidance on how a Member of this House might be able to use its procedure to hold energy company to account . it be disappointing to hear about EDF and the way that it be not respond . as an experienced member , I be sure the hon . Gentleman know that the Table Office can advise he on the various way that he can pursue EDF on this matter . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . during Prime Minister ' s question , the Leader of the opposition accuse the Prime Minister of spend taxpayer ' money to refurbish " Tory office " . I believe the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) be refer to the Department for Education , a Whitehall , Government , non - partisan civil service office . will you , Mr Speaker , ask the Leader of the Opposition to come back to correct the record ? I do not think I need to be tell by the hon . Gentleman what I have to do . he have certainly put it on the record , and it will have be hear by the Opposition . you be right to raise a point of order , Mr Stafford , but do not start instruct I on what I need to do . we will leave that there at this stage . Automated External Defibrillators ( Housing Developments ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the provision of automate external defibrillator in all new housing development of ten dwelling or more ; to require developer to provide funding for the maintenance of such defibrillator for a period of ten year after installation ; and for connected purpose . my Bill aim to increase the number of automate external defibrillator by ensure that , in future , they be an essential feature of every new housing development . that be a vital step in our endeavour to increase cardiac arrest survival rate . crucially , my Bill also require funding for the continue maintenance of defibrillator . first , I will outline the scope of my Bill and its link to important debate that the Commons have have on defibrillator . secondly , I will highlight the scientific evidence from around the world that overwhelmingly support the introduction of my Bill , and I will present the important argument for a maintenance provision in the Bill . I be grateful to Dave Bowling , a community first responder in my constituency , for provide the inspiration for the Bill , which , as this speech will demonstrate , have the potential to save many life . the powerful benefit of defibrillator have already be highlight in Parliament . my Bill follow the 2018 Defibrillators ( availability ) Bill , bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , and the 2023 Automated External Defibrillators ( Public Access ) Bill bring forward by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . additionally , the hon . member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Abena Oppong - Asare ) recently lead an important debate on public access to defibrillator , and a sponsor of my Bill , my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) , have be advocate for great uptake of aed through his leadership of the all - party parliamentary group on defibrillator . I also note with appreciation that the Leader of the House of Commons , my right hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Penny Mordaunt ) , be the first MP to call for all mps to complete defibrillator training . such discussion and endorsement in Parliament be of great value in increase public awareness of defibrillator . I acknowledge the very positive step that have be take to provide defibrillator in every school and on our high street , and the funding that the Prime Minister mention early , but the Bill target an area that be yet to be address : private residential home . it be crucial to note that in the UK , most out - of - hospital cardiac arrest — 70 % , accord to the Resuscitation Council UK — occur in the home . however , when I look at my constituency and other on the " defib finder " website , it be apparent that defibrillator be predominantly instal in non - residential area . that be a problem . in Sweden , researcher have find that a person be three time more likely to survive a cardiac arrest in public than at home . that statistic could be mirror in the UK , which be why I be call for a legal requirement to ensure that all new housing development have a defibrillator — an essential piece of life - save equipment . when cardiac arrest happen , it be crucial that a defibrillator be nearby . accord to a study by Sarkisian et al . , the survival rate for cardiac arrest decrease by 10 % for every additional 100 metre between the patient and the defib . it be therefore concern that , accord to a recent study by Burgoine et al . — many member will have read about it in the paper last week — the median distance of a publicly accessible defibrillator from any give postcode in Great Britain be 726 metre . when someone have a cardiac arrest , their heart stop , and it be a race against time to ensure that oxygen continue to travel to their brain . cardiopulmonary resuscitation — chest compression with rescue breath — be essential for maintain the flow of blood and oxygen during this time . however , the use of a defibrillator be the only method that can seriously improve survival rate , by shock the heart and cause it to resume its normal rhythm . that restore the flow of blood and oxygen to the brain . if a defibrillator be use before an ambulance arrive , survival rate from cardiac arrest increase from less than 10 % to more than 70 % . give that there be 60 , 000 cardiac arrest in the UK every year , it be crystal clear that my Bill be necessary to increase the number of defibrillator in private residential area , and I hope that this will not be a controversial issue for the House . some may suggest that the Bill will impose an additional financial burden on housing developer , but the cost of a defibrillator be small in relation to the entire budget of a housing project : just over £ 1 , 000 . the Bill will also empower resident to learn about defibrillator , and to know where they be and how to use they . everyone should know what a defibrillator be and , hopefully , where to find one . the second part of my Bill require developer to provide funding for these new defibrillator for 10 year after their installation . if defibrillator be to work and to save life , they must be maintain . so what maintenance be require ? first , there must be an electricity supply to maintain the temperature of the defibrillator ; this protect the battery life of the device . secondly , battery need to be replace after four to six year . replacement battery typically cost just £ 300 . thirdly , electrode pad need to be replace after two year . five replacement pad cost only £ 360 . as for who would carry out the maintenance , I believe that a number of organisation would be well place to visit each defibrillator in an area once every two year for that purpose — for example , the fire service ; the first responder network , include the local ambulance service ; or even , perhaps , the local authority . funding for the maintenance could well be achieve through a section 106 agreement between housing developer and local authority . my Bill have two important aspect : the provision of a defibrillator in every new housing development consist of more than 10 dwelling , and the provision of 10 year ' maintenance funding , all for an additional cost of about £ 2 , 500 , or £ 250 per property . that be a small price to pay for immediate access to a lifesave defibrillator . the scientific evidence overwhelmingly emphasise the impact that the Bill could have , and I hope that the House recognise that and decide to take action to improve cardiac arrest survival rate . let I end with Dave Bowling ' s call to action : " defibrillation for the nation " . question put and agree to . order , that Stephen Metcalfe , Anna Firth , Mr Mark Francois , Jackie Doyle - Price , Carol Monaghan , Jonathan Gullis , Sir Chris Bryant and Giles watle present the Bill . Stephen Metcalfe accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 360 ) . Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Bill consideration of Lords message Clause 18 - immunity from prosecution I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 44d , 44e , 44F , 44 g , 44h and 44j . let I begin by remind the House that the Government have seek to make a realistic assessment of what we can well deliver for family more than a quarter of a century after the 1998 Belfast / Good Friday agreement , nearly 30 year since the first ceasefire , and well over 50 year since the trouble begin . the backdrop be that current mechanism for address legacy matter work for only a very small number of people , rather than the overwhelming majority , and establish criminal justice process be increasingly unlikely to deliver outcome that people desire , especially in respect of prosecution . we have only one issue leave to debate today : conditional immunity . the purpose of this legislation be to give people more information in a short timeframe than be possible with the current mechanism . we do that by create an effective information recovery process that rely on a conditional immunity model . I attend a decent chunk of the debate in the House of Lords yesterday , and although I be sympathetic to the intent behind Lords amendment 44e , which be to give family member a role in decide whether immunity should or should not be grant , immunity risk undermine the effectiveness of these provision and the principal aim of information recovery . for example , the " public interest " consideration element in condition d would lead to uncertainty about the circumstance in which immunity will be grant , undermine the clear and transparent approach that we have develop over time . if we be to ensure that the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery can obtain as much information for family as possible , we need to ensure that the right incentive be in place for individual to come forward to provide that information . I appreciate that the Secretary of State — whom , by the way , I greatly respect — have come here to try to deliver the Bill as it be , but may I make this point to he ? a great many people out there have lose love one over the year — we all know who they be — and on every occasion , they seek justice . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) , even if there be only a candle of light of a possibility that someday , those who have murder someone ' s love one would be hold accountable for it , that be what we need . let I say , with respect , that today the Government be extinguish that light for all those who have lose love one . there be many people in the Chamber today , and in the Public Gallery , who have lose love one . on behalf of all those family , I implore the Secretary of State and the Government to think very carefully about the direction that they be take , because the family ' right to justice be be extinguish , and that can not bode well for the future . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point , for the way he have raise it , and indeed for the numerous conversation we have have on these matter outside this place and within it . he know the answer that I be go to give he . I will never , and can never , put myself in the shoe of the people who have lose someone . I just can not . however , I can see a process that have work for only a very few people , consider the quantum of people who be affect by the trouble and who lose people . indeed , the chance of get justice for they be dwindle all the time . the Government have come to the conclusion that this be the right way forward because we hope that we can , in good time , at least get some information recover for those family that ask for it , and also through other element of the Bill that be not the subject of this package of amendment . if someone mislead the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery , there be criminal process involve perjury and a whole host of criminal investigation that can take place . a whole host of thing have change that I hope will allow lot of information to be recover in quick time for family . the Secretary of State say he can not put himself in the shoe of the victim , but he could listen to they . can he tell we how many or what percentage of the victim he have meet have show support for this piece of legislation ? very few have show support for this legislation , but I have meet many , as have my Lords Minister , Lord Caine . in fact , part of the process of change the Bill have come from those conversation . I understand that lot of family do not want this Bill , but the question then be : if not this Bill , then what ? [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) say " Stormont House " , but he know that Stormont House do not have cross - party agreement at the time and that the Ulster Unionist party do not agree to it — rise — I happily give way . please correct I . would the Minister acknowledge that it do have cross - party support — the Ulster Unionists defer on one small matter — and that it be recommit to by his Government and the Irish Government as recently as January 2020 ? and it do not move forward because of the different political issue that come about . the Minister make this very point at an event that I be at at the weekend , but it be Chatham House rule so I be not allow to talk about it . he put forward the argument that the party just could not agree , but I be involve in many of those discussion and I can tell he that the british Government drag their foot month after month around the issue of onward disclosure . that be what happen , and it be important to put that on the record . the vast majority of political party and victim ' group in Northern Ireland support Stormont House but the British Government just do not want to do it . that be why it do not get deliver . I be afraid I do not quite believe that that be the case . however , the british Government have commit to full disclosure to the ICRIR , which allow for a huge amount of information to be put forward in those circumstance and the possibility of ensure that the commissioner can obtain as much information as possible from family . the Minister say that if family be to have a say on whether immunity should be grant , it would undermine the whole thrust of the Bill , but the point of the Bill be to ensure that people and family who have be hurt , traumatise and damage by what happen as a result of terrorist activity in Northern Ireland over 30 year have their say . surely the good way of give they justice , after they have hear what the circumstance of the case be , what the attitude of the individual be and what can be disclose , be to at least let they have the final say on whether they feel that the individual concern should be grant immunity . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point . the many amendment to this Bill throughout the last year have include measure on how family should be engage with and how their view should be hear throughout the process . to ensure that the commission can obtain as much information for family as possible , we need to ensure that the right incentive be in place for individual to come forward and provide that information . the possibility that eligible individual who co - operate fully with the commission could then be prevent from obtain immunity from prosecution be highly likely to act as a significant disincentive for individual to disclose that information . this be never go to be an easy issue , or an easy Bill . if it be easy , it would have be do many year ago . what the Government be propose may be right , or it may be part right and part wrong . I certainly think that give those survivor and their family a right to veto would be the wrong step to take , so the Government be right on that . however , I think the House will find comfort in the fact that the Secretary of State will keep the progress of the enactment under review , and if there be abuse or thing that be wrong , we can revisit it , tidy it up and make it work well . this can not be see as a closed chapter , job do . rather , it be the start of a new process — quite experimental in some way — of learn from other people ' s experience . if we have that comfort that this be amendable and reviewable , it might help to assuage some , if not all , the concern . I thank the Chairman of the Select Committee for his point . he will know that other amendment I have table have try to make this body as independent as it can possibly be . I be sure he will have take great heart from the appointment of the chief commissioner designate , Sir Declan Morgan , and from the comment he have be make about how he intend to go about his business . he be engage widely , even at this point , and will do so even far when the Bill get Royal Assent and become an Act . just in the practice of Sir Declan in put the flesh on the framework that we be build here for the commission , I think my hon . friend will see that there be lot of opportunity for it to do exactly what he wish it to do . this be understandably an emotional and difficult topic , and it be one that mean a lot to I , have serve as a parliamentary private Secretary to the former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , my right hon . friend the Member for Great Yarmouth ( Sir Brandon Lewis ) , and also have love one who live through the trouble on either side of the border . the discussion be difficult and I want to give my support to the Secretary of State on this . if there be a threat of prosecution down the line , it will be the family of british soldier and the family particularly in unionist community who will not get the answer they rightly deserve . it will disincentivise people from come forward and present evidence . even though justice might not be serve in a court , there will at least be answer to the question that family member have be ask for a long time . it will offer some small hope of reconciliation for those family if they can finally get the truth about what happen and who be involve , in order to allow Northern Ireland to heal and move on . I have engage regularly with member of the Northern irish community , and they want to talk about education and about create more high - skilled , high - wage job . they be desperate to see prosperity for their great country , and those be the thing that that nation want to move on to look forward to , rather than continuously look backwards . I thank my hon . friend for his point and for his committed work in my Department . I be not there at the time , but I know of it . I understand the point that he make . over the past year , we have endeavour through amendment to make the Bill very much focus on all victim of the trouble , so that all victim can , if they choose to do so , contact the commission and start a process that will hopefully get they some information in relatively quick time . we have recently have an example of a roman catholic priest who be involve in IRA activity . when talk about his role , he say that his only regret be that his effort be not more effective in kill people . if that kind of evidence be elicit — if people come forward and show no remorse and no regret , and offer no comfort to victim — do the Secretary of State really think victim will feel any well ? would not give they the opportunity to say , " in the light of that man ' s attitude , I do not believe he should be grant immunity , " be a well way of ensure that justice be at least see to be do for those people ? unbelievably evil thing be do in the course of the trouble . unbelievably hideous act be commit , and none of we can change that . as I say at the beginning of my contribution , it have not be possible to give justice to a huge number of those family even today , even after the passage of all that time and even after numerous investigation in some case . this Bill try to get some information to family who contact the commission to request it , so they can well understand the situation . it will not change anything that happen in the past — it simply can not . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way again . the premise of his argument and some of the argument we have hear from member on those Benches , which be sometimes extremely condescend to victim who have be go through this for many decade , be that people will come forward with the truth if we grant immunity . well , there be one glare example that prove that be totally wrong . during the Bloody Sunday inquiry , the soldier be grant immunity within the context of the inquiry . one after another , they lie through their tooth , and that have be prove by an international public inquiry . with the disappear , again , IRA people be provide immunity within the context of the organisation that be look to find those body , and we still have body out there that have not be find because those people do not come forward and tell the truth even when they be grant immunity . the lie that be be use to sell this Bill be just that : a lie . it be patently untrue and it will not do anything to give people the truth and justice they desire . the hon . Gentleman characterise it completely incorrectly . there be no guarantee that the Bill will bring information forward but , as I try to outline , very little new information have come to light that have lead to new case . very few people have be able to receive justice . he mention the point that , in the past , some people might have mislead a judge - lead inquiry . well , that be perjury , and perjury be now part of this Bill . the Bill have change a huge amount over the past year , and it be worthy of support . this may well be our last chance to discuss the Bill in this Chamber . may I ask the Secretary of State to reflect on the fact that virtually every independent human right expert include , most notably , the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission , which have statutory function , do not believe that the Bill be human right compliant ? even Sir Declan Morgan , who have be appoint to head up the ICRIR , could not give a categorical answer to that question in a recent newspaper interview . indeed , it be anticipate that a whole series of case will need to be bring forward to clear up the issue around human right compliance . I understand that point and , again , that be the purpose of all the amendment we have make . the hon . Gentleman will know that I be not comfortable with the Bill that I inherit because , as there would be a gap in investigation , I do not believe it could be article 2 compliant . amendment have be introduce that completely change that and I believe that the Bill be now compliant , but that will undoubtedly be test . only when it be test and the result come forward can anybody actually say that the Bill be article 2 compliant , as Government lawyer truly believe it be . the Secretary of State be unhappy with the Bill he inherit , which be the context of the amendment and change that have be make to this Bill . have he consult with the chief commissioner - designate on the Lords amendment he be reject today ? if the chief commissioner - designate be consult , do he agree to reject the amendment ? I determine not to speak to the chief commissioner - designate , so that I could maintain his independence when the Bill be enact . in several of the Secretary of State ' s answer to question from Opposition Members , he have say , " if there be extra evidence " . have he or the British Government have the opportunity to speak to the Irish Republic Government about their role ? I believe the Irish Republic Government , through the Garda S í och á na , have an evidence base on the murder that be carry out by the IRA along the border . I be very conscious of Chief Superintendent Harry Breen and Bob Buchanan in 1989 , Lexie Cummings in 1982 and Ian Sproule in 1991 . the people who do that escape across the border , and the Garda S í och á na have indicate — Order . I be very conscious of time . you be down to speak , and you have make your speech already . other people need to get in . this be a very important issue , and I want to make sure that people can make their speech . forgive I , Mr Speaker ; I be try to take as many intervention as possible . I know . we all know that Mr Shannon be very good , but it be the amount of time . intervention have to be short and punchy , not speech . he be go to make a speech later . I can assure the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) that I have be speak to the Irish Government about element of what he mention . the commission will grant immunity from prosecution only if an individual provide an account that be true to the good of their knowledge and belief . we have develop a robust test for immunity , in which their account must be test against any information that the commission hold . if an individual do not provide a truthful account of their action that could be pass to family , or if they do not participate in the immunity process at all , immunity will not be grant and they would remain liable to prosecution should evidence exist . where a prosecution take place , and should a conviction be secure , an individual will not be eligible for the early release scheme under the Northern Ireland ( Sentences ) Act 1998 . again , that be a result of amendment make in this House . similarly , although I acknowledge the sentiment behind introduce licence condition under Lords amendment 44e , I respectfully suggest that the Government have seek to address these issue through amendment that be adopt on Report in the other place . these amendment send a clear message that , once immunity be grant , individual who be convict of offence that could impede reconciliation will lose that immunity . in the Government ' s view , this approach strike the right balance between provide sufficient certainty as to the effect of a grant of immunity necessary to encourage participation and ensure that there be appropriate consequence for those whose behaviour after be grant immunity be not compatible with the fundamental aim of the Bill . the alternative propose by the Opposition would not support an effective information recovery process , and I therefore ask that the House join I in disagree to amendment 44d , 44e , 44F , 44 g , 44h and 44j . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I take this opportunity to welcome my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) to the Front - Bench team , and to express my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) for all the service she give during her time as part of the shadow Northern Ireland team ? as the House will be aware , we do not support this Bill , but I do not understand why the Secretary of State be seek to overturn the amendment table by Lord Murphy and pass in the other place yesterday . I listen very carefully to the argument advance by the Secretary of State , but I do not think they stand up , because the Lords amendment would not take away the commission ' s ability to issue immunity to an individual who come forward and give truthful evidence about what happen . lord amendment 44e be not a veto , but it would allow the family of those who be kill or seriously injure in the trouble to have some voice in the process — I understand that relative of those who be murder be with we in the Gallery , and they be still seek justice . let I turn to the other provision , relate to licence condition that would apply to the person seek immunity . I acknowledge what the Secretary of State just say about other change have be make to the Bill , but these provision seem very sensible and reasonable to I . I include in that the requirement that the individual in question should not approach or otherwise communicate with a victim , in the case of an injury , or with a victim ' s family , in the case of a death , unless they consent . so we will vote against the Government ' s motion to disagree with the Lords amendment today . the Secretary of State have talk quite a bit about a disincentive to people come forward , but I say to he that it be not entirely clear that immunity will achieve the purpose that the Government have for it . give that every other mean of justice be to be close down , and give that the commission appear to have a lifespan of only five year , those who have commit dreadful crime only need to sit it out . I say to the Secretary of State that if that be to happen and after the five year be over those individual start to talk about , boast about or write book about what they have do , how will he explain to the family of those they murder why the Government allow that situation to arise ? that would be the consequence of take away from people , as this Bill do , the mean of justice , however hard , however long , however uncertain . I acknowledge the point that the Secretary of State make about that . this be the last occasion on which we will debate this highly controversial legislation , which concern how we come to term with the terrible legacy of violence and brutality during the trouble in a way that enable those most affected — the family — finally to know what happen to the person they love and to ensure that justice be do ; to hold those responsible to account . this be the first time I have talk about this , give that I be appoint only on Monday , but I recognise how hard this be and I acknowledge the change that the Secretary of State have make to the Bill during its passage , include his comment that when he inherit it he be not happy with it . however , he must accept that this legislation do not command the confidence of the people to whom he be try to offer reassurance and comfort . the most important word in the title of this Bill be " reconciliation " . we all want that to happen , but the Bill have self - evidently not achieve its aim , because all the community in Northern Ireland be clearly not reconcile to its content . it be so striking to see the extent to which the Government have fail to win support for their approach . the list of people and organisation oppose to this Bill be frankly astonishing : all of the political party in Northern Ireland ; the church in Northern Ireland ; victim ' group ; the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission ; the former Victims ' Commissioner ; the Irish Government ; the Council of Europe ; and the United Nations . most extraordinary of all , it be report that the person who have be appoint as the commissioner - designate , the highly respected Sir Declan Morgan , say recently that he would expect legal action by the family of victim of the trouble to try to challenge the Bill on whether it be compliant with the european convention on human right . that be the scale of the coalition that the Government have manage to range against themselves , but instead of reflect on that , their approach have be to put their head down and plough on regardless . that be why , for all the Government ' s good intention , they have fail to win public confidence , even though the Government say in 2018 : " in order to build consensus on workable proposal that have widespread support we must listen to the concern of victim , survivor and other interested party . " do the wrong thing be not a justification for this Bill , and if there be one lesson we must by now have learn about how to make progress in Northern Ireland , it be that it can only be achieve patiently , slowly and carefully , so as to build a consensus . I be sorry to say that the Bill do not do that and it will not achieve the purpose Ministers claim for it . that be why we be committed , as the Opposition , to repeal it , if we get the opportunity . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I be well aware that time be limited ; you will be pleased to hear , Mr Speaker , that so too be my capacity for repeat argument that I have make many time previously . my party believe that this Bill be wrong in principle and that in practice it will not achieve the aim that the Secretary of State believe , no doubt with great sincerity , that it will . we will therefore be join the official Opposition in vote to support the Lords amendment . I be grateful for the contribution make by Opposition Members thus far . a number of comment have be make this afternoon that relate more to Second Reading than to the stage we be at . it should come as no surprise to those in the Chamber to hear that to we this be an irredeemable piece of legislation . even though we be highlight in this Chamber on Second Reading and so on the area where significant flaw be ultimately go to prove fatal to support for this Bill , the Government entrench themselves . on a number of discrete issue , they commit in this democratically elect Chamber , where they ignore our request , that they would proceed with such amendment in the Lords . I find that unsatisfactory , although I recognise that my colleague in the Lords continue to push on those issue . with Lords Dodds principally among they , they have ensure that some of the commitment give have be honour . however , that do not change the fact that this be a fundamental assault on justice , with the erosion of hope for victim and of the opportunity to get the answer they seek and the outcome they desire . those thing have be snuff out by a Government who have entrench themselves , and I greatly regret that . this afternoon we have an opportunity , with discrete and sensible amendment before we , as the shadow Secretary of State have say . they be table by the Labour party in the House of Lords , and be advocate and support by member across the other place yesterday afternoon . this be an opportunity for the Government to salvage at least some appropriate involvement for victim , whereby they can have their say and a sense of the outcome that they seek . a contribution be make yesterday by Lord Eames , and it be worth repeat . he say : " yes , there have be attempt to bring the concept of victimhood into the legislation that be propose , and yes , the Government can claim that they have make effort , but , in God ' s name , I ask your Lordships to consider the overall impetus of what change have be make to try to recognise the need of victim and their family , and of those who , in year to come , when they read what have be say , attempt and fail to be produce , will find it incredulous to understand that the Mother of Parliaments have ignore their crying . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 5 September 2023 ; Vol . 832 , c . 343 . ] those word be worth repeat this afternoon because Lord Eames be somebody who have lead the Church of Ireland but be in this Parliament as a peacemaker , and who go through an ill - fate attempt to reconcile issue of legacy in the past , in a consultative report with Denis Bradley in 2009 . within this Parliament and within our society , he be somebody who probably bury more people in Northern Ireland during the trouble than anyone else . when he exhort in such clear term that there be an opportunity finally for the Government , at this last gasp , to show some recognition of the pain , trauma , harm and pursuit of justice that victim show , the fact that this Government would not accept it be a great shame . the list of organisation have be give — it be give by a former Secretary of State , Lord Murphy , yesterday in the House of Lords and by the shadow Secretary of State here today — show the lack of support for the legislation . we will go through the Lobby this afternoon to register yet again our disappointment at a fail opportunity by this Government , who be more focused on what they can get out of this Bill as they campaign for the forthcoming election than on solve the intractable issue that have plague our society for so long . to start with the specific amendment before we , the Government ' s approach , right to this eleventh hour — five minute to midnight in term of the Bill — reinforce the premise behind the Bill . immunity be the central foundation stone on which this flawed Bill have be design and take forward , and the immunity clause go to the heart of why there be no confidence in the legislation and why it have be reject by so many stakeholder , most notably victim group . that opposition span the entire political spectrum in Northern Ireland . reference have be make to the history around this issue . I do not want to dwell on that overly , but there be a notion that the Stormont House agreement be not agree to and be in some way flawed , and that we need an alternative . Stormont House be agree by virtually every political party and there be effort make to implement it , but beyond the political party it have the confidence of victim group and the approval of independent human right expert , so it be the basis of move forward . as have be say , as recently as " New Decade , New Approach " , Stormont House have explicitly be the policy of this Government . within three month from the launch of " New Decade , New Approach " , we have , in effect , a handbrake turn , with a write ministerial statement by one of the Secretary of State ' s predecessor , the right hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Sir Brandon Lewis ) . it be very clear that the immunity concept , alongside the conservative party manifesto , be drive that , so the whole premise of the Bill be drive by the politic of the conversative party , not the need of Northern Ireland . that be the fundamental reason why the Bill will never be see as legitimate in any sense in Northern Ireland . far , I do not understand the logic of a Secretary of State say that Stormont House do not have full support , so we can not proceed on that basis , and then , by extension , introduce a Bill that have no support from any political party or victim group in Northern Ireland . that seem utterly nonsensical to I . I will not reiterate the point I make about human right compliance , but I acknowledge that the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) echo and reinforce the point that we will see legal challenge to the legislation . finally , I welcome what the shadow Secretary of State say about the repeal of the legislation . if we see a change of Government after the next election , I hope that will be a priority for the incoming government . there be a lot of thing that get I angry in this job , but this have get I more angry than anything I have ever have to deal with . the people sit on the Benches occupy by member represent Northern Ireland ' s constituency have have to deal with , get to know and work with the victim of our terrible past for decade . frankly , I be embarrassed today , as I do not know what I be go to say to they when I speak to they after the debate , because as a whole — as a body politic — we have fail they . we have a peace process , we have peace and lot of we have be able to move on , but we have leave a very significant cohort of people behind , and we be rubber stamp that today . some people will walk through the Lobby coldly , without have the name of the victim ring in their head . I have their name go around my head right now — I have put many of they on record in this Chamber during the passage of the Bill . I be deeply ashamed that we be do this today . there be a pretence in the proposal for the Bill that somehow the British Government be not an actor at all in the conflict in Northern Ireland . that be patently untrue . they say that local political party in Northern Ireland be just squabble , can not come up with any answer or deal with the problem . that be patently untrue . we come up with the answer , which be Stormont House . the reason it be not deliver be that the british Government drag their foot and change their policy after " New Decade , New Approach " . that be a fact . I really hope that the Irish Government listen to the call by some of we to take this UK Government to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg , because the Bill be an affront to human right and article 2 . every single expert I have speak to agree with I on that , and every single victim agree with I on that as well . the Secretary of State use the phrase " effective information recovery process " a lot of time . " effective information recovery process " ? I can take he to family today whose child — 14 and 15 year old — be shoot in the trouble and their case have be close by this government until 2064 and 2065 . those people tell we they want an " effective information recovery process " , but the Government be deny victim " effective information recovery " , so that tell I that the Bill be base on a lie . it be an attempt by this Government and dark force within the security apparatus of this Government to close down access to truth and justice . we all understand that justice will be hard to get for many family , but most of those family have not even have any truth . the process of investigation get they truth . I can take member to load of family today who never once even meet a police officer , even though a love one be murder . do anybody here believe that the IRA be go to come forward and tell we who bomb a particular pub or who shoot a particular person ? it be utter nonsense . this be an attempt to close down access to the truth and it be an affront to democracy . immunity ? it be impunity , give people a licence to murder people on the street of Derry , Belfast , Newry and across Northern Ireland , and also on the street of London . I do not understand how any politician can stand and look at the face of cry victim and tell they that this be the right thing to do . I be ashamed that this be happen today . let I say one thing to end : I know these people . they have have to struggle for decade after decade . this will not be the end for they and we will be with they in support , right to the end . I wish to add a few word . I will not be labour too long in the Chamber , but it be important to make some comment in relation to where we be , as I again find myself in a position where I can not support what the Government have put forward . while some member on the Government Benches try to apologise and condition their support for the Bill , Members on these Benches , include those from my party and our spokesperson , my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , as well as member represent other party , include the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) and for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) , have put forward their comment very clearly . I have many concern over the process in place for victim and the fact that there be not enough answer . there will be ongoing investigation , but will any of those investigation be into collusion over the border ? in my intervention on the Secretary of State early I refer to discussion that the Secretary of State and the United Kingdom Government may have have with the Republic of Ireland in relation to collusion in investigation , which in some case involve some member of the Garda S í och á na , and to the fact that the Republic of Ireland give sanctuary to IRA murderer who escape across the border . those be issue that some of my constituent wish to know about . in his reply , the Secretary of State say that he have have discussion with the Republic of Ireland in relation to those matter , but have the Republic of Ireland respond , give evidence or investigate in the way it should have do ? the Government of the Irish Republic , again interfere in the affair of Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom , have threaten to go to the european court on this issue . do my hon . friend agree with I , give how tarnished they be in regard to legacy , that whether we agree or disagree with the legislation that be be bring forward , this be an internal UK matter and should be deal with internally , through the process within the UK , not by an interfere Irish Government ? I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . he have put on record very clearly his point of view , and it be one to which many of we here subscribe . let I return to the point that I be try to make about the Secretary of State ' s reply . have those discussion take place ? have the evidential base be gather ? have the accusation of collusion between the Garda S í och á na and the IRA be consider ? there be the murder of Chief Superintendent Harry Breen and Superintendent Bob Buchanan in a car bomb on the border in 1989 . the information that we have be make aware of indicate that detail be pass to the IRA on what time they would be cross the border . that be collusion . that be an evidential base for what happen . that information should be bring forward by the Republic of Ireland Government and convey to the Secretary of State and the Government here . there be many other such case . for example , the murderer of Lexie Cummings in 1982 escape across the border . the murderer of Ian Sproule in 1981 escape across the border , and , again , the murderer of my own cousin , Kenneth Smyth , escape across the border . I thank my hon . friend for give way . as this be raise in an early intervention , it would be interesting to say to the House that someone come forward and volunteer information , say that they have be involve in the IRA campaign , and yet they have never serve one day either in court or in prison for that . they be question in 1988 and deny the allegation , but as recently as 2019 they make a full admission of their involvement in IRA activity . the case of the Hyde Park bomb , which see 11 people kill and 51 injure , be never bring to court in relation to that . that be somebody who come forward recently and make that admission . I thank my hon . friend for raise that matter . he have clearly outline an evidential base , which have to be part of this process . unfortunately , though , with this Bill that process do not continue in the way that we hope it would . I wish very quickly to speak to the Lords amendment . they have establish minimum criminal justice standard for a " review " along the line of Operation Kenova . the amendment would require the Secretary of State to make regulation prescribe the standard to which review by the Independent Commission for Reconciliation & Information Recovery be carry out , include what measure should be use to ensure that review comply sufficiently with the obligation under the european convention on human right . the shadow Secretary of State , whom I welcome to his place , refer to that specifically in his contribution . I be very encouraged by his comment here today — I think we all be — and look forward to constructive engagement with he as we move forward . what be also cover be whether as much information as possible should be gather by review in relation to death or harmful conduct , and whether all evidential opportunity should be explore by review . victim must be consult , and regulation can be change if review be conduct in a way not envisage . that be what the Lords amendment be hope to achieve . it be disappointing to I personally and to all of we who represent Northern Ireland that that have not be fully consider by the Government . it be regrettable that the Government have resist effort to embed minimum criminal justice standard at the heart of how the ICRIR conduct review . they seem intent not only on narrow the legal route , but weaken investigative standard in those aspect that remain . it be hard not to reach the conclusion that the distinction make between " review " and " investigation " in the context of the Bill be more about draw a line under the past with minimal fuss in the short timeframe possible , than about actually secure the answer and information that the victim and their family deserve and crave . in conclusion , it grieve I to stand against the Government on these issue , but , on behalf of the victim , I wish to say very clearly that those in the Public Gallery today expect to see all those who perpetrate and carry out crime to be hold accountable . that be not happen . the unfortunate thing for all of we here — those in the Public Gallery who have lose love one , we in this Chamber who have lose love one and for all of we who represent Northern Ireland — be that this be a retrograde step . it extinguish very clearly the hope for justice that we all want for those people who lose their life to the trouble . with the leave of the House , I will answer a couple of the point that have be raise . I be grateful to all hon . member for their contribution in the debate today . I know that the time that I have be relatively short , so I shall try to keep to it . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be just speak I be remind of a question that I receive from my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) in the second but last Northern Ireland Office question . she be approach by a constituent who be after information about what have happen to one of their love one . so there be people out there who will try to find , and do find , information about their love one if it can possibly be do . the fact be that if people do not co - operate , they will not be grant immunity and therefore they will remain liable to prosecution , and that will mean use all the police power at the new body ' s disposal . the Government ' s position be that we still feel that the prospect of successful prosecution be increasingly unlikely , but , none the less , that prospect remain . if I may , I will correct one thing that the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) say — it be a straightforward correction and be not mean in any political way . it be not correct to state that the ICRIR have a lifespan of five year . the commission will be wind up by the Secretary of State at the time via affirmative resolution only once it have discharge all its function as set out under clause 2 , so its lifespan could be quite a bit long than five year . I just think that I would share that . I do recognise that this be a hugely difficult Bill and a hugely difficult task — an unbelievably difficult task — which be reflect in the number of valiant attempt make to address the issue since the Good Friday agreement . the Secretary of State be outline the difficulty surround this entire process . give the convoluted , protract nature of this for such a long time and give what inevitably will happen when this pass as it will , it will end up in the High Court . do he understand that this will be an entirely convoluted , academic process that will end up nowhere ? I be afraid that I do not . I be say that a number of valiant attempt have be make to address this issue since the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . as I have remind the House in the past , in one debate that I attend with some of the woman who be behind the Good Friday agreement , one be ask what be her big regret about the time . the regret be that nothing be do for victim . a number of these attempt be undertake when the right hon . member for Leeds Central be a Minister in Government . indeed , I slightly worry about his brilliant academic mind and his recall for any of our future exchange , but I know that he will remember all too well the difficulty and complexity involve in these issue . none the less , it be incumbent on we to ensure that any process for deal with the past focus on measure that can deliver positive outcome for as many of those directly affect by the trouble as possible . that come — it really do — with finely balanced political and moral choice , include a conditional immunity process , which I acknowledge be difficult for very many , but we must be honest about what we can realistically deliver for people in circumstance where the prospect of achieve justice in the traditional sense be so vanishingly small . that be why the Government be unable to support the opposition and will be disagree to Lords amendment 44d , 44e , 44F , 44 g , 44h and 44j . I will close my comment by recognise that the right hon . member for Leeds Central have come to this debate with a fresh pair of eye . quite understandably , he have not have much more than 48 hour to go through what be a very detailed piece of legislation , but I know that he have follow these debate in great detail from the Back Benches . I know that in due course he will look at this and reach his own conclusion . I encourage he when do so to reflect on the immense difficulty of this task , and to consider how the Government have genuinely seek to strengthen the legislation with encouragement from his party . he may also want to consider the tough of all question : if not this Bill , then what ? I hope that upon Royal Assent the opposition will engage constructively with the chief commissioner to help to ensure that the new commission can deliver the well outcome for all those affect by the trouble that everyone across this House would like to achieve . question put . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Andrew Bridgen Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris John Healey Meg Hillier Kate Hollern rupa Huq Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan James Murray Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Navendu Mishra Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 288 , Noes 205 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 44d , 44e , 44F , 44 g , 44h and 44j disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up a Reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to Lords amendment 44d , 44e , 44F , 44 g , 44h and 44j ; that Chris Heaton - Harris , Robert Largan , Alexander Stafford , Tom Hunt , Chris Elmore , Tonia Antoniazzi and Richard Thomson be member of the Committee ; that Chris Heaton - Harris be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at today ' s sit , notwithstanding paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) of Standing Order no . 14 ( arrangement of public business ) , business in the name of the Leader of the Opposition may be enter upon at any hour and may be proceed with , though oppose , for three hour ; proceeding shall then lapse if not previously dispose of ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) opposition Day - 18th Allotted Day ( Second Part ) Opposition Day Safety of School Buildings I beg to move , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there will be lay before this House by 13 September 2023 the follow paper – ( a ) submission from the Department for Education to HM Treasury relate to the spending review in 2020 and 2021 ; and ( b ) all paper , advice , and correspondence , include submission and electronic communication ( include communication with and from Ministers and Special Advisers ) within and between the Cabinet Office ( include the Office of the Prime Minister ) , the Department for Education and HM Treasury relate to these submission concern with school building . today we seek the release of paper that would tell we what have and what have not be happen in our school — paper that the Government refuse again yesterday to release and about which the Prime Minister again evade question today . however , this debate be about much more than just the document . it be about more than reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . it be about more than school building and their safety . this debate quite simply be about responsibility , and whether the Prime Minister will come clean about the allegation that he know the risk , that he be warn , that he be tell . that be the issue in the motion before the House today : whether the Prime Minister be tell that urgent action be need to secure the safety of school , but instead he slash the cost of champagne ; whether he will accept responsibility for his choice and whether he will be clear where responsibility lie . all of we be here with deep responsibility to our constituent , to be open , to be honest , to take decision objectively and selflessly , to accept accountability , to have integrity and to show leadership . let I be clear right from the outset that a Labour Government would have show leadership on this , not just in the last few week but for year on end . that be our record in government . a Labour Secretary of State , face today with a sudden crisis such as this , would have get those list of the affect school out quickly , would have be straight back to London , would have be communicate every day to parent and above all to child , would be take step not just to mitigate the immediate challenge around safety — [ interruption . ] order . she be not give way . perhaps she will give way later . we would remember the lesson from the pandemic that every school day matter . we would be ensure the continuity of education for every child in school . we would be ensure in - person learn for all our child . we would be do that right now , and we would not be look for plaudit , blame other , or demand praise . we would accept responsibility for what have go wrong on our watch , and we would take responsibility for fix it — fix it fast , fix it to last and fix it for good . the Government can not even fix send out their suggest intervention for today ' s debate to the right set of Back - Benchers . it be hardly a surprise that they can not fix the chaos in our school . here we be today , because of the utter shamble that have accompany the start of a new school year for so many child . the public realm be literally crumble around the next generation . the defining image of 13 year of Conservative Government be child cower under steel prop to stop the ceiling literally fall in on their head . be it not always the case that when the Conservatives be in power , our school crumble ? in 1997 one in five school be inadequate and need to be rebuild by a Labour Government . because the Conservatives slash the rebuilding programme , under this government we be in the same dire situation again , and the only party that can fix it be a Labour party in government . my hon . friend be absolutely right . like he , I remember the transformation that that Labour Government deliver . I will come to that in more detail during the debate . the Welsh Labour Government have complain that the briefing they receive lack the technical detail require to take forward the work on school . do the hon . Lady agree that the Secretary of State should provide the other government with full detail from the working group when they become available ? I know that Conservative Members have a keen fascination with all thing go on in Wales at the moment , and that Ministers have not always be in full possession of the fact at the Dispatch Box , so I will put a few on the record so that we can all be clear about the situation in Wales . in Wales , school capital funding have increase by around 122 % in cash term , and 23 % in real term , between 2014 - 15 and 2023 - 24 . perhaps we can use that as the basis for slightly more informed debate during today ' s discussion . today , our first priority must be safety — as it must always be . guarantee that safety must ultimately be the responsibility of Ministers and of Government . that be why I repeatedly press the Secretary of State to publish a full list of all the school with concern about RAAC , which she have at last publish today . however , I gently note that there could be omission on that list , a number of which have already be draw to my attention . I hope that we can get full clarity about the situation across our school . the hon . Lady have make a whole series of allegation and challenge about the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister , but surely , in a devolved arrangement , all those responsibility and challenge apply equally to the First Minister . she have recognise that the list of school in England have be publish ; why have such a list not be publish for Wales ? do she accept that that be an example of the Welsh Government fail education and school in Wales ? the difference between the Labour Government in Wales and the Government here in Westminster be that , over the last 13 year , the Welsh Government have continue with a school rebuilding programme , unlike the UK Government , who have cut funding and cut support to our school time and again . we want to be clear , open and honest with local authority and multi - academy trust about the step that the Secretary of State be take to get in place the protection and mitigation that be need . she say on Monday : " absolutely nothing be more important than the safety of child and staff . it have always be the case that where we be make aware of a building that pose an immediate risk , we have take immediate action . " — [ Official Report , 4 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 52 . ] yet she be keen to spread the responsibility for the concrete crisis through time and space , include to her colleague , who I understand have be sit on their backside ; to the Welsh Government — a topic of interest for member — whose ability to act swiftly have be hamper by key information not be share ; and to the last Labour Government , who leave office 13 year ago . the Secretary of State be keen to emphasise that it be not her Department ' s responsibility , or her , to ensure the safety of our child at school . push responsibility on to other — local authority , the school themselves , multi - academy trust — without the power , resource or support they need , be very simply pass the buck , and my word , there have be an awful lot of that this week . as minister have be keen to remind we , concern be first raise about RAAC back in the 1990 . by then , the wide issue be that too many school , build quickly and cheaply in the previous 50 year , be approach the end of their design life . the issue be many : RAAC , asbestos and the simple reality — in the school I go to and in so many other state school across our the country — of bucket in corridor , classroom blacken by mould , window that do not close and door that would not shut . I be at school back in the mid ' 90 , but I know how serious labour politician take those warning , and I be proud that as the scale of the challenge become clear , Labour Ministers rise to it . in 2004 , the Buildings Schools for the Future programme be launch to rebuild every secondary school in our country over 15 year . in 2007 , Building Schools for the Future be join by the primary capital programme to give every child the chance to learn safely in a first - rate learning environment . that be do not because it be simple or quick , nor because there be no easy , more popular or more eye - catch choice , but because it be right , because it be responsible , and because that Labour Government believe then , as we do now , that excellence must be for everyone , and that every child deserve the good start — not just some child , but all our child . the change we see in 2010 , when the Conservatives enter Government , reflect a very different approach : an entirely botched cancellation of exist programme not by Ministers long since retire , but by the Minister for Schools , the right hon . member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , who be still sit on the Treasury Bench today , and by a former Education Secretary , the right hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , who be still in the Cabinet . ambition be reduce and timeline extend . minister know the consequence when they take those decision . they bank the saving and leave our school to rot slowly , quietly and inexorably . do my hon . friend not think that the vast , overinflated amount of money spend on some free school site could have be well spend deal with the collapse school ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for all the work that she have do over many year , as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , to draw our attention to the problem . I will say a bit more about the recent report by the National Audit Office on many of these issue . when we leave risk unattended , they worsen and , in time , thing start to fail — first quickly , then suddenly . in July 2018 , a ceiling suddenly collapse at Singlewell Primary School in Kent , where RAAC fail without warn . mercifully , no one be hurt . month pass , and an alert from central Government and the Local Government Association go out that autumn emphasise the risk . it say : " the limited durability of RAAC roof and other RAAC structure have long be recognise ; however recent experience ( which include two roof failure with little or no warning ) suggest the problem may be more serious than previously appreciate and that many building owner be not aware that it be present in their property . " let I emphasise that final point : many building owner be not aware . a few month after that , in May 2019 , the Standing Committee on Structural Safety issue a note on the failure of RAAC plank . it say that all those instal before 1980 " be now past their expect service life and it be recommend that consideration be give to their replacement . " it be not until March 2022 — almost four year after that ceiling collapse — that the Department for Education respond to the challenge of RAAC . how ? it send out a survey — not a surveyor , not a team of surveyor , and not even fund for surveyor , but a survey . if the issue be such a priority , and if the Secretary of State and her Department believe in immediate action , why , after a school collapse in July 2018 , do it take almost four year for the Department to send out a survey about RAAC in March 2022 ? I appreciate that the Secretary of State be not in post throughout that time , but responsibility in Government be not merely individual ; crucially , it be collective and enduring . it stretch across Government and down the year . if she do not understand that point , perhaps she could seek advice from the Schools Minister , who have be in post for so many year , as he be today . the key fact be that the Welsh Government order survey only in May 2023 , while the UK Government start engage with school in 2022 . surely that show a woeful lack of responsibility . I have here a briefing document . it would save we all a bit of time and energy if Conservative Members just give we the number and let we deal with it . the Welsh Labour Government have be take consistent action to rebuild school during their time in office ; the hon . Gentleman might not like it , but it be a fact , and that stand in stark contrast to what have be happen here in England . my hon . friend be make a powerful case . the Work and Pensions Committee highlight last year the grow number of retire schoolteacher succumb to mesothelioma because of exposure to asbestos during their work life . at the current rate of progress , it will take 350 year to remove all the asbestos from school . do she agree that the Department must get a move on with that ? my right hon . friend be right to draw our attention to that matter , and I appreciate the work that his Committee have do on it . it would also be helpful if we have some clarity today from the Secretary of State about the risk that might arise when RAAC interact with asbestos . if she could say a little bit more about that , I be sure all member from across the House would be grateful . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be just go to make a bit more progress . for a responsible politician , be in government be not simply a matter of press the agenda of their political party , their donor or those who profit from Government contract . it be about rise to the challenge that face our country , and accept the blame when thing go wrong as the price of acclaim when they go well . the point about RAAC be make very ably by the Secretary of State , who say : " a school can collapse for many reason , not just RAAC " . they can indeed ! so many thing be wrong right now with our school estate : there be faulty boiler , inadequate insulation , roof leak , and asbestos in around four out of five of our school ; and as the pandemic teach we , ventilation be simply not good enough in too many of our school . how do we know that ? the condition data collection tell we all of it . by the Department ' s own admission , that exercise be not even a proper structural survey , despite come 20 year after the risk of RAAC be first flagged , and seven year after the Government cancel labour ' s school rebuilding programme , have not even look at hazardous material . the condition data collection find that more than 7 , 000 element of the school estate be in poor condition and need to be prioritise for replacement . be all those someone else ' s responsibility , too ? even the money that the Department do commit — the spend allocation of which the Minister for Schools speak so proudly so often , with the keen pride of a Minister wholly oblivious to the scale of their own failure — be not all spend . again , whose fault be that ? whose responsibility might that have be ? we be tell that part of the difficulty in recent year have be find the skilled labour to deliver the work that our school so desperately need . I invite Conservative member to reflect briefly on why exactly that might be . could it be the dramatic overall drop in apprenticeship start , the shortage of construction apprenticeship in recent year , or the utter failure of the Government ' s apprenticeship levy to deliver spending on skill at the scale and pace we need ? could it be their wide failure on further education and in - work training ? thirteen year into a Conservative Government , who will take responsibility for that ? it be a conservative Prime Minister who once savage the press of this country for seek " power without responsibility " . today , that be the entire ideology of the whole conservative party . that failure to accept responsibility be not merely the ethic of the Secretary of State and her Ministers ; it come right from the very top . today ' s Prime Minister be yesterday ' s Chancellor , and we know — not just from the former most senior official at the Department for Education , but from the Schools Minister himself — that at the 2021 spending review , when even Ministers know that the problem need tackle urgently and the rate of rebuilding need to soar , the now Prime Minister say no , and every conservative Member accept that . cheap champagne , yes ; safe school , no . there have never be a clear picture of the priority of the conservative party . the Prime Minister , fond as he be of private donation to his old school , have form on say no to high standard in school for other people ' s child . he say no to the proper pandemic recovery plan that the Government ' s own recovery tsar recommend . in 2021 , he say no to the capital spend that would have keep our school safe and our child learn . last spring , he say no to the desperate plea of civil servant in the Department for Education for the resource to make school safe . in his spending review speech back in 2021 , he even boast of return overall real - term education spending in a few year ' time to the level of the last Labour Government . that be not an admission , wring as a repentant confession ; it be a boast , make with pride , that one day — but perhaps not yet — he would take education as seriously as Labour . those who complain about party politic might reflect for just a moment on whether they would level the same accusation at the National Audit Office . in June , the NAO report that " follow year of underinvestment , the estate ' s overall condition be decline and around 700 , 000 pupil be learn in a school that the responsible body or DfE believe need major rebuilding or refurbishment . most seriously , DfE recognise significant safety concern across the estate , and have escalate these concern to the government risk register . " just yesterday , in respect of RAAC , the Comptroller and Auditor General be clear that " the long - term risk it pose take too long to be properly address " . on the sustained inadequacy of the Government ' s capital programme , he go even far : " failure to bite this bullet lead to poor value , with more money require for emergency measure or a stick plaster approach . " fail to bite the bullet ; poor value ; a sticking - plaster approach — 13 year into this Government , those be absolutely damn word from the Government ' s own spending watchdog . my hon . friend will be aware that Jonathan Slater , the former permanent secretary , say that civil servant tell the Government that there be a " critical risk to life " because of the dodgy building , and the failure to follow advice and invest in make sure our school be safe . do she agree that this Government be seriously put child ' s life at risk through their incompetence and negligence , and through the failure of the Prime Minister to make sure there be proper investment in our school ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . if Ministers be confident about everything they have do and the decision that be take , they will back our motion today , allow we to see the paper , and be transparent with this House . I should be shock by the lack of humility from Conservative Front Benchers , but sadly , I be not . school be literally collapse around we , and the Conservatives want people to thank they for it . do my hon . friend agree that the Education Secretary need to get a grip and explain why her office get a £ 34 million refurbishment while school be crumble under this Tory Government ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who make a very important point . finally , let I turn to the wording of the motion . I know that many conservative Members share labour ' s concern , and I ask they today to think of the young people and the school staff in their constituency . however loyal they have be in every past debate , I ask they to help we put truth and transparency first , and to force responsibility on their Front Benchers . it be time for the full truth to come out about why our school be unsafe today , and whose decision that be . it be time at last for Ministers , and the Prime Minister in particular , to take and accept responsibility for the broken country they will leave behind . I commend the motion to the House . rise — before I call the Secretary of State , it will be obvious to the House that a great many people wish to speak this afternoon , so there will be a time limit of approximately five minute on Back - Bench speech . I give that warning ; I can see that colleague be look at their long note , and hopefully take a few page out of they . this Government be commit to make sure that every child in this country get a first - class education and every opportunity to make the most of their ability . More than that , underpin that commitment be a deep one : to ensure that child be safe and secure in the place where they learn . I be glad that the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) have choose to raise the issue of the safety of school building and investment in the school estate . nothing be more important than the safety of child and staff in our school , and no issue could highlight more my willingness to take the right decision , even if they be politically difficult . the country , and the child in our school , deserve nothing less . as I set out in the House on Monday , the Government will not shy away from that responsibility , no matter how much the Labour party descend into the political gutter . I understand that parent , school and this House be concerned about the issue of RAAC ; we be act responsibly and move decisively to address it , and minimise disruption to education . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) be shout from a sedentary position , so I will answer her question : £ 34 million be sign off for a Government building for the Department for Education . that be sign off by the Department ' s commercial director , and be nothing to do with I . that be base on a decision make in 2019 , before I be Minister . the right hon . Lady be very experienced , so I be sure that she will understand that minister do not sign off on Government building . it be the commercial director of the DFE who sign that off in 2019 . to go back to the issue in this case , because that be very misleading , we be deal not with an issue cause in the last year , the last five year , the last decade or even the last 20 year , but with a legacy issue date back to the 1950 . as the Chancellor set out , we will not shirk this responsibility and we will spend whatever it take to keep child safe . in Leeds , our school repair backlog be over £ 66 million , and the council be give £ 6 million a year by the Government to tackle that . the lead councillor for education , Councillor Jonathan Pryor , have write to every single Secretary of State for Education since 2018 . eight letter have be send to raise school condition funding , but all plea have be ignore . do the Secretary of State really think that be acceptable ? I will look at Leeds specifically , but we have award million to Leeds . the big difference between our programme and any programme that be ever do by your government when they be in power — Order . I think the Secretary of State mean " his Government " . I be sorry . unlike the hon . Gentleman ' s Government when they be in power , we actually do a condition survey . we have do two condition survey and we have do a full RAAC survey , which we be now finish with the response that be come in . we know the condition ; previously , the Labour Government do not know anything about the condition and no decision be make base on the condition of school . St Francis ' primary school in my constituency identify RAAC problem way back in 2019 . it have to fund its own survey to do that . since 2019 , St Francis ' have submit two bid to make its roof safe , and both be reject . they appeal both time , and both appeal be reject . can I ask the Secretary of State how she can justify the rejection of those bid , and how can she justify the potentially much high cost that must now be pay from the public purse to make St Francis ' safe ? the hon . Lady raise a good point , because of course the responsible body , St Francis ' , have do the right thing by do its survey . that be what everybody be ask to do in 2019 and in 2018 , and in guidance since then . there be condition and condition - base request , and if the school want to get in touch and give we the detail , I be very happy to look at that case . I be very serious about make sure that we get rid of RAAC in our school . the school estate consist of over 22 , 000 school and sixth - form college , with over 64 , 000 block . of course , the condition vary across the estate , and a number of building be reach the end of their useful life . that be why we have a 10 - year rebuilding programme , and why the spending review in 2020 and 2021 allocate more than £ 7 billion for maintenance allocation for school on top of that programme . rise — I should make a bit of progress , because I do have an awful lot of this in the speech . I really do want to satisfy people with detailed information because I have a lot of it . although local authority , academy trust and other body be directly responsible for school building , we support they by allocate significant capital funding each year , deliver major rebuilding programme and provide guidance on effective estate management . responsible body ' local knowledge of their estate and their work to maintain their estate make they much well place to ensure that school and college building be keep safe , compliant with regulation and in good working order . however , the Department always stand ready to provide additional support on a case - by - case basis if we be alert to a safety issue by those responsible body . this be the normal pattern of maintenance — a careful and calibrate local response . however , we judge in this case that the issue of RAAC require we to take a much more proactive and direct approach . this approach be unprecedented across the UK , where England be lead . sense the scale of the potential challenge , we improve our surveying so that we have the capacity to act , even if we do not need to do so . our condition datum collection , which run from 2017 to 2019 , visit nearly all 22 , 000 school and sixth - form college , and be one of the large data collection of its kind . it help we to understand what be need in school and to target our effort in the way that good meet need . in contrast , over the 13 year of the last Labour Government , there be not a single comprehensive review of the school estate . yes , that be right : they be simply in the dark . individual report from the condition datum collection — will the Secretary of State give way ? I will make a bit of progress , but I be not ignore Members and I will take other intervention . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will make a bit of progress , and then I will come back to both hon . member . as we become aware of the specific issue with RAAC , we supplement the data collection with more target survey especially for RAAC . that be do so that when we make decision , we would be able to act . I will leave colleague to draw their own conclusion from the fact that labour - run Wales be now play catch - up to identify where RAAC be in its school estate . on the question from the hon . member for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) , we brief Wales verbally on new technical guidance on 1 September and we share visual information on three case over the weekend . none of we should be here to criticise the scrutiny of safety in school , so can I thank the Department for dispatch fast , as request , two surveyor to look at the one school in my constituency of Gloucester that be potentially affect ? I also thank they for complete their mission fast , so that the head could today confirm to his teacher , parent and pupil alike that there be no raac in the school whatsoever . I thank my hon . friend , and he be absolutely right . that be what we be do with any work . we be be ultra - cautious here . the decision I have make be ultra - cautious , and first of all it be to make sure that we survey all school as quickly as possible . by the same volition , a school in my constituency send in the result of the survey on 14 July and be promise by the Department that it would be contact on Friday or Monday with the report , but it have hear from no one and it be give a telephone number that get it through to the wrong department . we now have child out of school as a precautionary measure , which be surely unacceptable . will the Secretary of State look at this case , but will she also say how many other school be in this position ? I will definitely look at that case , because that sound as though it take place before the decision I take and also before I stand up the caseworker , propper , cabinet and portacabin . if the hon . Lady will give I the detail of that case , I will look at it , because that should not be happen . what should be happen be exactly the same as what my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) lay out . the Secretary of State be confident , it seem , that there be enough surveyor to do this work , but since she make this decision about school , question have be raise about many other public building and I suspect structural surveyor be now in much short supply . be she still confident that structural engineer and surveyor will be available to do this work , and be she stick to her timetable of have answer by the end of next week ? I be confident that , because we start early , we have do a lot of these survey already . quite a lot of the school be involve at the beginning , so I be confident of that . I be also confident that the NHS have conduct survey of its main building , and I think the court have also do survey . however , we have now increase the number of survey company from three to eight to make sure that we can get through all the case , include any that member be concern about , as soon as possible . back in January this year , I submit a write question to the Government about the number of school in my constituency of Wirral West that have building rate as very likely to collapse . in the response I receive , the Schools Minister say : " department official be clear that there be no area within school open to pupil where there be a know immediate risk of collapse . " presumably those building would be evacuate if that be the case — order . I appreciate that the Secretary of State have be very generous in give way to member , but she will not be as aware as I be that there be 22 people who wish to speak this afternoon . the Secretary of State be very politely give way to member who be not go to take part in the debate , and if we have long intervention from those member , people who be wait to speak will not have the chance to do so when we come to the end of the debate . I be try to get some fairness into this , but I do appreciate that the Secretary of State be be polite and I will allow she to respond to the intervention . thank you for that , Madam Deputy Speaker , and for give I the reminder , because I do not want to take time away from people who have put in to speak . what my right hon . friend the Schools Minister say be absolutely right : any time there be an immediate risk , action be immediately take . however , what we be do be more preventive than that : find out where everything be , so that we could act . when the three new case happen over the summer , that be when I make a decision to be very cautious , because I do not want to take any risk whatsoever . I know exactly where to go , because I know exactly which school be judge as non - critical . I know exactly what we need to do . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be sorry but I will not give way . I know I promise the hon . Gentleman , but I will see if I can make a bit more progress . we deposit copy of the school condition datum in the House Libraries on 20 July this year , in advance of the summer recess . it be also available on the Parliament website , and I be sure that many member who be interested in this subject will be interested in see it . the successor programme , CDC2 , be now under way . early indication from the programme , which have be under way since March 2021 and will finish in 2026 , and feedback from the sector suggest that in almost every case where a d grade — a bad condition — be identify in CDC1 , it have since be address . we be get on with the job . that be a demonstration of the approach that I and my Department be take : we identify where the issue be and how severe it be , then we take the right corrective action . that be what our child deserve and what our school deserve . when we have datum , we can act to improve our school . the 2021 spending review announce a total of £ 19 billion of capital funding to support the education sector between 2022 - 23 and 2024 - 25 , include £ 5 . 4 billion for school condition allocation . that include £ 3 . 6 billion announce in allocation for the first two year of the period to improve the condition of the school estate . that be in addition to the school rebuilding programme , which be rebuild 500 school over 10 year . that build on nearly £ 30 billion of capital between 2016 - 17 and 2021 - 22 , include over £ 13 billion for improve or replace building . improve education be this Government ' s mission . ensure that our education setting be safe be a key part of that , and we therefore prioritise it as part of our capital funding , and actively manage funding and support for the school estate to stay open and safe . I also note the distinction between our target approach and what come before . the system we inherit be find by an independent review of capital to be poorly target and wasteful . we on this side of the House have act to protect child , while other have ignore problem for decade . school building be more effective and efficient than ever before . the significant investment make in education in recent year by this Government , couple with essential reform , have raise standard for our child and give they a well chance of success in life . since 2010 , we have reform our capital programme to bring down the cost of school building . the James review of education capital in 2011 find that Building Schools for the Future , the programme that the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South be proud of , be overly bureaucratic and do not deliver outcome that be good or affordable . just as the people of Birmingham be find out so heartbreakingly today , and as I see as a young girl grow up in Liverpool , the consequence of Labour always see thing bad off than when they start . by contrast , at the 2020 spending review we announce our 10 - year school rebuilding programme , which will transform building at 500 school across England . we have already announce 400 of those school , include 239 in December 2022 , prioritise those in poor condition and with evidence of potential safety issue . will my right hon . friend give way ? perhaps I could make a little more progress , as I feel I will not have be fair if I don ' t . we currently have a further 100 place on the programme , and the Government will continue to focus on invest in the school estate . we strive to deliver value for money — it be easy to spend money , but get value for money be what the people of this country expect — and ensure that our capital funding be spend as efficiently as possible . as the National Audit Office conclude in 2017 , the priority school building programme , the predecessor to our school rebuilding programme , replace school more efficiently , cost approximately a third less per square metre than the previous capital programme , Building Schools for the Future . we commit to 500 school over 10 year through our rebuilding programme , with an average of 50 school enter delivery every year . that be in line with the scale of project deliver every year since the start of its predecessor . there have be some debate about the scale of rebuild in recent day , but the level of our ambition be unchanged . we have not scale back our ambition for school rebuilding , and we will not . although the school rebuilding programme be in its initial stage of delivery , it be ramp up as more project begin construction . the exact amount that rebuild programme spend will differ year on year , base on the stage of delivery that project be in at any give time . that be the norm for significant capital project , which mean that when we try to make comparison , a lot of cherry - picking go on . overall since 2012 , 524 school have be rebuild or refurbish through our central rebuilding programme , and a further 408 be in the pipeline . we be build school more quickly , more efficiently , and well target on condition and need than ever before . sometimes , however , there will be issue that we have to deal with outside the normal process . the role of Government and of Ministers be to respond to that , and to take ownership and full responsibility . when new information about RAAC cross my desk over the summer , I understand that the buck stop with I , even if the problem be 50 year in the making . as I set out in my statement to the House on Monday , the safety of pupil and staff be this Government ' s absolute priority . we have regularly and swiftly update our guidance in line with the late technical advice , to ensure that responsible body be aware of the risk and able to act . in light of the three new case over the summer , and give the disparate nature of the school estate and , most importantly , the fact that child be involve , we make the difficult decision that it be no long reasonable or safe for space know to contain RAAC to be use . that be a very difficult decision , because there be operational implication for other , and an impact on parent and child . it be important to note that the technical advice on RAAC do not say that we must put mitigation in place in all building — that be not what the RAAC advice say . where RAAC be present , we can keep it as long as we manage it well . we have act with the utmost caution to reassure parent and teacher , and to establish a comprehensive plan to mitigate and resolve setting with RAAC , because we know where they be . let I be clear : we be able to do that only because we have prepare for this eventuality . I have hope that that preparation would be unnecessary , but sadly it be not and I have to take a decision . I be grateful to previous Secretaries of State who make decision to ensure that we be able to establish where RAAC be present , and to act rapidly . we could show leadership , we could show direction , and we could tell people exactly where to go with their portacabin and with their propping . professional advice from technical expert on RAAC have evolve over time , and the question of how to manage its risk have span successive government since 1994 . nobody be blameless in that , include Labour Members , who be warn in 1999 , 2002 , and 2007 alike . unlike they , I be interested in keep our child safe and improve learning . they try to play politic , and they can play politic all they like , but as they be find in Wales , the public can smell opportunism and recoil at politician who fail to show leadership . we on the Government side of the House see the risk and decide to prepare . my Department alert the sector about the potential risk of RAAC in 2018 , and in February 2021 we issue guidance . we be concerned that not all responsible body be act quickly enough , so we decide to take a more direct approach , as I lay out on Monday , ensure that we get all the survey . we find out where RAAC be and we take action . the vast majority of school will be unaffected , as we have set out in information publish today , and 104 of the affected setting be offer face - to - face education for pupil . each impact school and college have a dedicated caseworker to help implement a mitigation plan . for the past few day that have be my main concern — operationalise this , and ensure that we can establish and scale up a programme to give school the support they need due to the decision I have to take . Most people will receive little disruption to their education , but that could include use other space on the school site , or in nearby school or elsewhere in the local area , until structural support or temporary building be instal . project delivery , property and technical expert will be on hand to support school to put face - to - face education measure in place as quickly as possible . we have publish the list of school that we know to be affect by RAAC , and we will be publish an update in two week . it be important to give those affect school and college time to focus on mitigation with support from my Department , and to inform parent directly . thank to the hard work of education leader and local council , 104 setting be provide face - to - face learn for all pupil this week . a further 20 setting have hybrid arrangement in place , with some pupil learn off - site , while 19 have delay the start of term by a few day to ensure that pupil can start attend face - to - face learn safely on site . only a very small number — four — have need to move to remote learning . we anticipate that the majority of those will be able to offer pupil face - to - face learn soon , ensure that disruption to education be keep to a minimum . nine setting have since be find not to have RAAC after be reinvestigate . I want to be clear that we will spend whatever it take to keep child safe , with extra funding come from DFE capital budget to fund mitigation . that include pay for emergency mitigation work need to make building safe , include alternative classroom space where necessary . where school need additional help with revenue cost , such as transport to other location , we be actively engage with every school affect to put appropriate support in place . we will also fund long - term refurbishment project , or rebuilding project where need — take responsibility , take action and show leadership . as all member know , the spending review be the process that determine how the Government will spend money over the course of a Parliament . it would be inaccurate , incomplete and inappropriate to disclose the detail request of the sensitive negotiation between his Majesty ' s Treasury and individual Departments — inaccurate , because it would show only part of the picture of a complex decision - make process that take place between multiple Departments , Ministers , official and other individual with vary priority ; incomplete , because such a process have to look across the board at priority and trade - off for all department to ensure we can deliver for everyone , yet this motion focus on only one ; and inappropriate , because it would be categorically in breach of the long - stand tradition and expectation that confidential and often commercially sensitive information be not disclose into the public domain and that official can give full and frank advice to Ministers . some Labour Members present have themselves serve in government . they know that those in the civil service use every ounce of their professional skill to help they as Ministers and deliver the objective of the elect government they serve . I have to ask : what would those member say to those official about a motion that might result in the making public of the advice of civil servant — people who can never answer back themselves — which they have think be be give to Ministers in confidence ? we know that they would not want that to be do . it be vital to the conduct of good government and very much in the public interest that official and Ministers in Departments and across government have a safe space to provide free and frank advice to inform policy and spending decision . I note that such an exemption be one of the bedrock of the freedom of information law that the Labour party introduce . in the case of the spending review and related discussion , anything else would undermine that position and make it hard for government — now and in the future — to make the right balance of decision and to maximise value for money for the taxpayer . that can not be right , regardless of party , colour or the political event of the day . I repeat what I say at the start of this speech : nothing be more important than the safety of child and staff in our school . we be invest billion of pound rebuild our school and provide the funding and support that academy trust , local authority , diocese and school need to manage the school and college estate effectively . as the Prime Minister and Chancellor have say , we will spend whatever it take to keep child safe in our school . after this debate , I will return to that work and to oversee the operational response that ensure we be keep child safe and protect and their education ongoing . in the meantime , I urge all colleague to vote against this motion this evening . rise — as I say early , a great many people wish to catch my eye , so there will be a time limit , immediately effective , of five minute on Back - Bench speech . the debate we be have today be important . it go to the very heart of what it mean to govern and the very purpose of good government , which be to educate and protect our young people properly . the issue of the safety of school building and the safety of our child be of paramount importance . I be shocked that even have to be say , but unfortunately what have emerge in the past week have make it apparent that it do . despite the Secretary of State ' s exasperation on this issue , I will not be congratulate she on her handling of it . the Secretary of State be a member of a party and a Government that have see school budget as expendable and a place to save money , whether that be the abolition of Labour ' s Building Schools for the Future programme , which I will say more on later , or the Prime Minister decide in his previous role as Chancellor of the Exchequer that the safety of our people be not a priority for this Government , a view that he have continue into his premiership . I be sure that the Government will be tired of hear the word of Jonathan Slater , the former permanent secretary to the Department for Education from 2016 to 2020 , but he know what he be talk about . he say that the investigation by civil servant lead to they recommend that 300 to 400 school need repair each year . the Department request Treasury funding to cover 200 , yet the decision make in 2021 be to halve the number of school repair from 100 to 50 . who be the Chancellor at that time make those decision ? it be the Prime Minister , who be now preside over this Conservative Government ' s education crisis . this be not just number on a page . across the country , more than 100 school be affect . eleven so far have be report in the north - east , four of which be closed . they be vital to the future of our child , but those school be now unsafe . it be shameful . tellingly , in his response to the former permanent secretary , the Prime Minister say in an interview with the BBC : " if you look at what we have be do over the previous decade , that ' s completely in line with what we have always do " . yes — cut funding to repair and build school . I could not agree with the Prime Minister more . it be exactly what conservative government have do over the past decade : ignore the priority of the people of Sunderland , the north - east and the country , ignore the life chance of our young people and ignore this issue , which have be on the Government ' s desk for a few year . we go from crisis to crisis , and it be work people and family who suffer . that be why we need change in this country . build Schools for the Future , the programme that the last Labour Government have for replace all or part of school that need to be rebuild , be abolish by the Conservative - lead coalition in 2010 . when Labour leave power , the economy be grow . it be the policy of austerity by the coalition Government that lead we to recession . the Conservatives then be the same as the Conservatives now : a threat to our economy , with a lack of care for our school . in Sunderland , in 2010 , under BSF wave 2 , the council be inform of an indicative budget of £ 137 million to cover 14 school rebuild or ICT infrastructure replacement . when the plug be pull on BSF , that funding be withdraw . the issue in the school remain . today , two of those school have be identify on the list of the 500 school in the bad condition in the country . thirteen year later , action have not be take . Refurbishment of the other have have to be fund by alternative capital due to the absence of Government support . six of they be still in need , with no progress since 2010 . that be shocking . the use of RAAC in school building , and probably other public building as well , be not the responsibility of any one government , but sort the problem that have cause be . the Government ' s complete lack of prioritise school building be fit for purpose or funding education properly have lead to the crisis that many of our school find themselves in today . this be a self - make school crisis that the Government have bring on themselves . it have force school to close and it be the result of year of neglect by conservative . the Secretary of State might like to play the victim here , but it be our child who be in danger in this crisis . someone need to take responsibility for put our young people in danger , and so far the Prime Minister be refuse to accept it . the Education Secretary have say that the safety of school building be not the responsibility — Order . I be afraid that the hon . Lady have exceed she five minute . I call the Chairman of the Education Committee . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate , and I be grateful to the Opposition for give we the opportunity to debate this issue , which be of urgent concern across the country . the Education Committee have request Ministers to attend a session , and I be glad to report that we will have a Minister attend the Committee the Tuesday after next to give evidence on this important issue . I want to raise some of the specific concern we be hear from school leader about the way in which the announcement come about and their timing . I think we all agree that it be deeply unfortunate that change have to be make so late in the school holiday , and before . I understand from conversation that I have have with Ministers today and from public statement that some of the information come to light only very recently . the Select Committee will push for a more detailed timeline on when information come to light and when decision be make . I hear many time when I be a Minister the concern of head and leader in education about announcement make late in the holiday , just before school return , and I think we all agree on that . it be deeply unfortunate and troubling in this case . however , I do understand Ministers take a zero - risk approach on roof collapse and child . from what I have be tell , it seem that the estimation of risk — the idea that there be low - risk and high - risk form of RAAC — fundamentally change . it be important that we get more detail on that so that we can scrutinise the decision making . on the consequence for school , we now need to ensure that there be the minimum disruption . I welcome some of the step set out by the Secretary of State in that regard . I welcome the fact that there be dedicated caseworker work with those school where issue have be identify and that more survey be take place where there be uncertainty . I would gently say that there be deep concern over the fact that responsible body be many and various in this respect , and their capability in understand their building be highly varied . what work for a large multi - academy trust or a local authority manage a number of school and have a dedicated estate team can be different from a more isolated school and single - academy trust . in particular , small primary will not necessarily have the expertise to manage these issue . I seek assurance from the Secretary of State that there will be extra support for those more needy school and that the Department will cover the cost where there be uncertainty of surveying . it be important that we have that assurance in the come week . I be grateful to the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) that I be able to join that Committee ' s session on school capital before the summer and to question the permanent secretary at the Department for Education over RAAC . at the time , it seem that visit relate to RAAC and the gathering of information be be accelerate , but give what we know now , in the light of the risk change , it be a great shame that all those visit have not be complete by that time and we do not have a more complete risk picture . an update on the figure give to that Committee would be useful . I look forward to join the Public Accounts Committee in our scrutiny of this issue when it meet next week . there be many more question to ask . crucially , we need to ensure that lesson be learn from this for the long run and that when we build public building , we do so with material that have a life that will match their use . that mean multiple generation , not 30 year or 50 year . rise — I will give way briefly to the hon . Gentleman , but I want to conclude shortly . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . give the concern he be now express about how public building be build in the past , do he stand by his comment about Labour ' s motion on school building in May that he describe at the time as scaremongere ? that motion be similar to this one — a Humble Address — which , for the reason already set out , I do not think be an effective way of go about get the relevant information . I think that proper parliamentary scrutiny be the way , and I absolutely intend to provide that proper parliamentary scrutiny . there be huge risk in the approach that the opposition be take with repeat Humble Addresses , undermine the confidentiality of advice give by official to Ministers . the idea that a future Labour Government would want to disclose all submission in spending review be , I be afraid , for the bird . we have to be realistic about make sure we have a proper process of scrutiny . I will hold Ministers to account on this , and as Chair of the Select Committee I have a lot of question to ask . my member do as well , and I know that a number of they have affect school in their constituency . we will want to press Ministers on those issue . I do not think that a Humble Address be the right way to go about it , and that be why I will not support the motion , but I do fundamentally believe that we must ensure there be more investment in replace school building and increase investment in the quality of the school estate . yes , that be to address issue such as RAAC , but it be also to address issue that have cause real harm , such as asbestos , which we may not have much time to talk about in the debate . it be important to take into account the point make by the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , in that respect as well . I will not detain the House long because I will have my opportunity with the Select Committee to ask Ministers much more . this be a hugely important issue and we need all government to get it right . I urge Ministers in the UK Government to work with the devolved administration to ensure that they can take the proactive measure need to make school across the UK utterly safe . I want to start by extend my thought to every student , parent , teacher and school staff member who be this week have their education disrupt , unable to do their job or have to work around the clock to find alternative teaching setting . my first question be : what new evidence have be present ? I do not believe that " evidence " be the right word to be use . through the Public Accounts Committee , NAO report and visit , I have be look at RAAC and , just from have a glance online , it be easy to find multiple report , include a report from February 2022 by the Institution of Structural Engineers that say that although visual survey help to assess the condition of panel , " the nature of any warning sign of sudden failure at the bearing be not fully know … not all defect be visible … panel which appear to be in a good condition may conceal hide defect which could present a risk to the integrity of the panel … the corrosion of reinforcement could lead to large piece of RAAC fall which present a risk to occupant . " so I do not believe that there be new evidence ; what I believe be that the risk have come to fruition . what we need to understand be why , in this place , we have not take the risk seriously enough when we have know since 2018 about the risk of sudden failure without any warning sign . thankfully , I have be inform by the DFE that it be not aware of any confirmed case of RAAC in my constituency , but government action have undermine my constituent ' confidence in the inspection process . one school , which we be in close communication with , have a second survey carry out this week by the local authority after there be confusion by the Department as to whether the first survey have take place . RAAC be not identify in either survey . however , some part of the survey could not be complete due to the possible presence of asbestos , leave that school in limbo , not know if RAAC present a problem underneath the asbestos . parent should not have to worry about the safety of their child when they send they to school , and teacher should not be worried about their workplace be at risk of collapse , but here we be . I be frankly not that surprise that the Secretary of State say it be " not the job " of the Department for Education to ensure that child be learn in safe school environment . at the start of the year , I raise the case of my constituent Carla , a parent who suffer a serious head injury after a 15 - foot piece of board fly off the outside of her child ' s school . she suffer significant injury : she have a black eye and go on to have headache — she need to have an MRI scan — and minor scarring , and she still suffer from tinnitus . it could have be a lot bad — someone could have die as a result of that event . as Carla say in her statement to I , " this … could have be prevent and it be pure luck that no one die " . that happen when she be go to collect her child . it be exceedingly lucky that the three incident this summer happen when no one be there to be hurt . accord to datum from the Government , from 2017 to 2019 , 27 school in Sheffield have at least one grade c " poor " construction type , and 14 be find to have at least one grade d construction type . I have visit school and speak to headteacher , all of whom report a similar story of decade - old building go unchecked , repair to the basic be leave undone , and of struggle to manage capital budget that have be cut over the year to fix thing such as boiler . I be really concerned that , to grapple with this issue , we need to ensure that all the school estate be look at in the round so that issue such as asbestos do not get forget . while two school benefit from the Government ' s last round of funding , it be barely enough to cover the basic repair . many miss out on any funding at all . I have to question why the guidance to school on this year ' s funding round state that not all RAAC be dangerous . I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she stand by that statement that not all RAAC be dangerous . why be it not the aim to eradicate RAAC from school , as state by the NHS and the Department of Health and Social Care ? finally , I hope that school will be reimburse for the cost associate with RAAC litigation and set up classroom and temporary accommodation . I want to know what assurance the Secretary of State have receive that the 600 - odd school await inspection or that have be inspect be the upper limit of those at risk of RAAC . what assurance do she , and the Department for Education , have about the quality of the survey be conduct ? I rise as the Member of Parliament who , unfortunately , probably have more RAAC school than any other . that do not take into account nearby secondary school , three of which be identify on the list of cancel project in the Building Schools for the Future programme with RAAC in Colchester , in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , and which be all likely to be attend by pupil from my constituency . I heave a deep sigh . opposition day debate be about blame the government — I have be in opposition , and we all know that . they be not about what have fundamentally go wrong and what lesson there be to be learn . like the Prime Minister , as he point out early on the spending review , I can find no reference to RAAC school in Hansard relate to any statement , urgent question or debate from 2010 when the Building Schools for the Future programme be cancel , and cancel it be for very good reason . labour ' s motion be retrospectively try to allocate blame in the past , not explain what a Labour Government would do now or in future . I be tempt to my foot to say that there be a properly plan programme of renewal of school , and although RAAC in itself be not the only issue be look at , it be part of that discussion . just because it be not name do not mean that there be not a plan . there be a plan , and a Conservative Secretary of State axe that on day one of the coalition Government . that be of no comfort to my constituent , I be afraid , because nearly all the school concern be primary school , and there be no primary school in the Building Schools for the Future programme because it be a politically drive programme fund by the discredit public finance initiative , which make it extremely expensive . I do not think we should go back there . the Labour party do not actually criticise what my right hon . friend the Secretary of State decide last week to protect the safety of schoolchildren and teacher . that be the subject of my intervention on the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) . do she think that the Secretary of State have do the wrong thing ? I will give way to she now if she would like to say that . I be not Secretary of State . no , but the point be that this debate arise because the Secretary of State make a brave and courageous decision to act on the advice she be give . the Opposition have nothing whatever to say about that . she do the right thing . [ interruption . ] if the shadow Secretary of State want to intervene , by all mean she may . the hon . Gentleman would do well to show a little humility for the mess that his party have create right across our school . there we have it : the hon . Lady will not say that the Secretary of State have do the wrong thing . let the politic play itself out . what we have here be a much more fundamental , wide systemic failure in the management of building safety , which have go on for decade . Dr John Roberts , the former president of the Institution of Structural Engineers , write in the Times early this week : " as a chartered structural engineer in active practice from the early 1970 , I never consider use RAAC as it do not " feel ' correct for permanent structure . " so why be it use ? one lesson be that perhaps minister should encourage their official to challenge they more with uncomfortable truth — let we agree that . the wide question be why such a critical building safety issue be systemically neglect , decade after decade . we should thank the good Lord that none of the ceiling collapse on a classroom of pupil , or the Government would by now be announce a full public inquiry rather like the Grenfell inquiry . there the parallel continue , because like cladding , RAAC be a long - persist and neglect building safety risk , which successive government have fail to address . I and other , include the former fire and housing Minister Nick Raynsford , the former chief investigator of the Air Accident Investigation Branch Dr Keith Conradi , and senior building surveyor Kevin Savage , make a submission to the Grenfell inquiry . our recommendation to help to address the failing be principally twofold and relate to unresolved conflict of interest in the building safety management regime of building , which be not address by the Building Safety Act 2022 or the establishment of the building safety body , which be now a statutory function of the Health and Safety Executive . at present , it be the HSE — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will press on , if I may . at present , it be the HSE that decide how a building safety failure should be investigate , unless the Government take over with their own inquiry . there be a need for a truly independent building safety investigation body , equivalent to the accident investigation body in aviation , marine , rail and offshore safety . no regulator like the HSE should also investigate safety failure , because it may find itself conflict if part of the failure arise from a failure of regulation . that be what Lord Cullen find in the Paddington rail crash inquiry and why the Rail Accident Investigation Branch of the Department for Transport be establish . will the hon . member give way ? I be sorry ; I have no time . the second conflict that need to be resolve concern the role of local authority building control body and their private sector counterpart , know as approve inspector . the Building Safety Act will regulate the private sector approve inspector but not local authority building control , which be not only responsible for approve the cladding on Grenfell Tower but , I hazard a guess , probably approve the building control on most of the school build with RAAC . the main point be that failure such as RAAC and clad arise because of the failure of the building management safety system , which be endemic to that system . the failure also arise from the failure to find the cause of build safety incident through a proper independent investigation body that possess permanent , accumulate expertise that a one - off - public inquiry have to attempt to acquire from scratch . I hope that amid the politicking , all political party will recognise that such reform be necessary in build safety management , or there will be more systemic failure in build safety arise from thing such as the wrong cladding and the wrong concrete in the future . I have 15 second , if the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) would like to intervene . very briefly , do the hon . Member think that the Government ' s 54 % reduction in the HSE budget since 2010 be helpful in this situation ? I have hope that the hon . Gentleman would raise a point relevant to my speech . there have be enough politick about this issue . I be make more serious comment about the building safety management system of this whole country , which affect a whole lot of other public building as well . I fear I will upset the Chair of the Liaison Committee , the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , because I will use my speech to blame the Government . the Secretary of State must be the only scouser I have ever meet who think Liverpool be leave well after the last 13 year of conservative government . it have be evident to my constituent for many year that our public service be crumble under the Tory Government . never have that phrase have rarely be so literal as it have become in the last few day . just day before school be set to reopen after the summer holiday , our education system be throw into chaos by the crisis of unsafe concrete in our public building . More than 100 school have already be force to close due to the risk of collapse . the Prime Minister himself suggest that more than 1 , 000 could be affect . this scandal go to the heart of the incompetence and short termism that have characterise the last 13 year . the emerge timeline of event be truly staggering : upon take office in 2010 , the Tory - Liberal Democrat Government scrap labour ' s school rebuilding programme , which the then Education Secretary call a waste of money . department for Education official say that 300 to 400 school need to be rebuild every single year because of degrade concrete , but the Government say they would only pay for 100 . in 2018 , the Department be inform of the sudden collapse of a roof on a school in Kent . since summer 2021 , its own risk register recognise a critical and very likely risk that building collapse could cause death or injury . official in the Department again ask for funding for school rebuild to be double . instead , the then Chancellor , now Prime Minister , recklessly cut school funding in half . now our school , the bedrock of our society , be literally potentially collapse around we and the Tory Government have the audacity to expect gratitude . today , Labour will force a bind vote to reveal what the Prime Minister know about the risk pose by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete before slash the school rebuilding programme . conservative mp have a choice : stand with those of we on the Labour Benches and let parent know the truth , or stand with the Government and cover up what be know and the scale of the crisis . the crumble concrete in school , hospital and court be a fitting metaphor for Tory rule and the year of neglect of public service across the country . after 13 year of a Conservative - lead Government , Britain be fall apart . our NHS be on the verge of collapse , our railway be in chaos , raw sewage be be pump into our river , and housing be unaffordable and insecure . my constituent say , election after election , that enough be enough . I hope the rest of the country will follow suit shortly . we need nothing short of a national renewal , and Labour stand ready to take office and begin the difficult task of rebuild Britain for the well . unlike some , I welcome the opportunity to follow up Monday ' s statement from the Government Front Bench and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to discuss RAAC . More than 50 school in Essex be affect , and I begin by pay tribute to Essex County Council and its leadership : Councillor Kevin Bentley , Councillor Tony Ball and officer lead by Claire Kershaw . they have be robust in their leadership and be do so much to help parent , teacher and pupil . I should add that our council be work not just with local authority school , but academy trust too . they be not say that it will help one school over another . they be step up to deal with the challenge and we be grateful to they . I commend they for convene Essex mps . Madam Deputy Speaker , my right hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dame Eleanor Laing ) , have also raise concern on behalf of her school directly with the county council , as have the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) . he have a school that be affect : Sir Frederick Gibberd College . we be work together because we believe in find solution . we be not interested in politick at this time . I want to thank parent and pupil in Essex for understand the difficulty we be all face . they have be inconvenience by the RAAC issue , but it be important to point out that , certainly in my constituency , community group and business have come forward to help find alternative provision and site . I thank they too . the focus right now have to be on find solution to the immediate challenge we be face , minimise disruption to learn , and ensure affected pupil , parent and school be support . I do not think they be interested in political point scoring ; they want answer and solution . I will use my time to put some question to those on the Government Front Bench , and I know they will come back on they in due course . I welcome from the Minister the detail of the step that have be take across Government to mobilise the strong operational — that be the whole point — delivery response we want . the Prime Minister give an assurance early that all funding necessary will be provide , include capital and revenue . that be important because our county council be already liaise , co - ordinating and cover cost in the interim . it will be send in an invoice , and we hope it will come to the Department for Education . the council will , of course , need to know when those cost will be meet and who in the Department it will be liaise with , so I would like some assurance on that . we have concern about the impact on learn . I have raise — I raise it on Monday in this House — concern around child with special need , disability and vulnerability , and the impact of miss learning on parent , with difficulty around childcare . we be look at find practical solution , so I would welcome any update from the Front Bench on that , too . we will need to think about how the impact , particularly on exam and ofsted inspection , will be manage . it be inevitable , post pandemic , that we will see more ofsted inspection locally — I know that from my own school — but we have key year group in exam year and we have to support they . on temporary measure be put in place , all member will be concern about the pressure on the market and the demand for portable classroom and facility . the Secretary of State and I have already speak about those demand and the potentially increase cost , so it would be helpful for the Government to give a supply update . alongside the pressure of supply for temporary classroom be the impact on the construction sector and extra insurance cost and premium . school and the local authority will be look at those issue and quality control measure . this have already be touch on in the debate and over the past few day , but issue other than RAAC be affect our school , and I have raise they in the past , such as damp and old building that be wear out and need update and replace . perhaps not today — this be an Opposition day debate — but we will need an update on what this all mean for we go forward . finally , this be a difficult and challenging time for teacher , school , pupil and parent . on behalf of all of those affect in the Witham constituency , Essex and the whole country , today be a chance for the Government to give an assurance that they will do everything possible to ensure that face - to - face education can come back for affected school and that we be do everything we can to support they . early today the Prime Minister say that he have act decisively on RAAC . early this week , the Secretary of State say that school in which critical RAAC have be identify have be fix immediately . as we have come to expect from this Government , neither of those statement be true . critical RAAC be identify at St James Catholic Primary School in my constituency in June and action be not take immediately — or , indeed , at all . it be tell that it could open in part and then , as with many other school , it receive just 24 hour ' notice that it have to close in full . school would not be in this position have the Government act decisively . they have know RAAC be unsafe since 2018 , and they could and should have take action much early . decade of cut money from vital public service have literally leave building crumble and leave our kid at risk , sit in unsafe building . the Government ' s decision have leave all our public service on their knee , not just our school but crumble hospital and court . it be not just the building : whole service have collapse . staff , too , be be fail : worker in school , the NHS and local government have all be leave prop up service . huge increase in workload , couple with real - term pay cut , have also leave public sector worker at the point of collapse . we know that the Government ' s rhetoric on level up be yet more untruth and we know why : the Prime Minister boast about move money from poor area to rich area , cut tax on champagne , spend million on new office while our northern community like Hebburn , Boldon , Jarrow and Gateshead in my constituency be leave behind . it do not surprise I to see so many of my colleague from the north - east present today . community be neglect and leave pay the price of Tory chaos while Ministers , their spouse and their crony get rich . conservative Members attempt to gaslight the country into believe that everything be okay , but despite their panto scream during Prime Minister ' s question , they know the reality : that 13 year of Tory Governments have ruin our country . from the cost of living crisis and food and energy bill to our water , school and NHS , every part of our country be fall down . the Secretary of State like to keep say that decision be " nothing to do with I " , but the fact that our school and the country be fall apart be absolutely down to the Government . at this moment , thousand of parent be petrify because of this crisis , while we have a Prime Minister and a Secretary of State with foot of clay . they need to accept that their time be up , and move aside so that the Labour party can start clear up the mess that they have cause . no Member of Parliament would dispute the crucial importance of safe and secure school premise — or indeed all vital premise , whether those be hospital , court or prison — or the fact that they require adequate Government investment . implicit in the Opposition motion , however , be an allegation that the Conservative Government have fail on education , and fail child more broadly , and that be a charge that I do not accept — nor , in fact , do some of Labour ' s most revere figure . Philip Collins , write in the Times on Monday , say : " the core case for the government would be in education . its emphasis on academic knowledge have be salutary . " he go on to say that the conservative " free school programme create productive experiment in school improvement . " I can attest to that , because I send my kid to a free school . he continue : " the stress on phonic to teach reading " — introduce in 2010 by the Schools Minister — " have work . in 2012 , 58 per cent of Year 1 pupil achieve the expect reading level . by 2019 , that have rise to 82 per cent . " member must be familiar with this by now , but in this year ' s progress in international reading literacy study , an international five - yearly assessment , the UK rank fourth globally and first in the western world for child literacy . the proportion of school rate good or outstanding by Ofsted have increase from two third in 2010 , when we come to office , to 90 % today . time be limited , so I will not go on , but the fact be that the quality of child ' s education have never be high because of the reform introduce by this Conservative Government . let I now deal with the issue of building . there be good aspect of Labour ' s Building Schools for the Future programme . St Bartholomew ' s School in my constituency be rebuild as a result of that programme , and I give Labour credit for that . however , the private finance initiative programme be badly lacking . the National Audit Office note that the building be a third more expensive than it need to be , and that be not in dispute . the independent James review say in 2011 that Building Schools for the future have be " time consume " and " have an approach that , with hindsight , be expensive and do not get to school with the great need fast enough . " give the dire state of the public finance when we come to office , it be right to shelve that scheme . I know that that the note leave by the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , do the round on social medium , and Labour Members will groan , but it still blow my mind that a senior member of the last Labour Government think it be a joke that they have run down the public finance in that way . to they , the interest of the public be somehow derisory , and secondary to the primary objective of thumb their nose at the incoming Conservative Government who have just win a general election . I entirely disagree with the claim that the Conservatives have put nothing in place of that programme . in the three and a half year in which I have represent my constituency , a brilliant new primary school , Highwood Copse , have open in the south of Newbury . two more , Francis Baily Primary and Whiteland Park Primary in Thatcham , have receive significant fund for badly need overhaul . three secondary school , Trinity , Park House and Kennet , have also receive significant fund ; in fact , only one secondary school have not receive money . John O ' Gaunt , a secondary in Hungerford , be one of the 239 school select for funding from the Government ' s £ 1 . 8 billion school rebuilding programme in September . I have watch school premise in my constituency improve significantly , so I know that the money be there . finally , I want to align myself with what be say by the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) . I know from work closely with my local headteacher that they need information and transparency . I respect the Secretary of State for take a difficult decision in the light of information that become available , but I would also say that the information publish today reveal a more positive picture than be first fear . More than 100 of the 156 school affect — less than 0 . 5 % of the total of 22 , 000 in the country — be already back in operation , and run face - to - face teaching . only four be currently online . I do not like online teaching ; it do not work very well for my kid . I understand from what the Prime Minister say that we be talk about a matter of day or week , so I ask the Secretary of State for transparency and a clear timeline for those school . the shadow Secretary of State for Education say that the symbol of 13 year of a Conservative Government be child cower under concrete block , but the endure image of 13 year of a Conservative Government be high level of academic excellence than have ever be achieve by any Government , and that would be impossible under anyone other than the Conservatives . in the week of the first anniversary of a prime ministerial reign that be outlast by a lettuce , we again see lay bare the staggering incompetence of this Conservative Government . mortgage holder , private renter and those look to get on the housing ladder bear the brunt of that debacle ; this time it be child , parent and teacher who be pay the price for the Government ' s failure — and failure do not get much big than this . the Prime Minister ' s decision to slash the number of school to be rebuild , reportedly against the advice of official , have leave classroom up and down the country unsafe to learn in . taxis on many parent have never be high ; it be not unreasonable for they to expect that their child could go to a school that be not at risk of crumble around they , yet the Conservatives seemingly disagree with that not especially lofty aspiration . they want my constituent to thank they for do a good job as vital public service be quite literally run into the ground . my experience of the Conservatives ' school shamble come at quarter to 5 last Friday , when I receive a letter from the same Secretary of State who want to be pat on the back for do a good job because she know where the affected setting be . in that letter , she advise I that an education provider with many site across Greater Manchester have a confirm case of RAAC at its site in my constituency . assume an error , as I be previously unaware of any issue , I call the mps ' hotline to confirm whether the affected site be indeed in my constituency . the adviser be adamant that it be , despite my protestation . it be only when I speak to the principal of the site in my constituency that it become clear that the site be completely fine , and that there be no raac involve at all . the Secretary of State be nod . the site refer to be 15 mile away in another constituency and be a different part of the same group . for this to happen once would be bad , but for it to happen twice in the same letter — this be a comedy of error from a Secretary of State who supposedly know where the affected building be — be deeply concern . of the four school that I be notify be at risk from RAAC , one be not even in my constituency . this be just a glimpse of the chaos and incompetence that have characterise the past week . if the Secretary of State be lean into her knowledge of where the problem be as an example of her efficacy , I suggest that she rethink her strategy . countless school be now in limbo , with headteacher be tell that they have suspect issue with RAAC but will have to wait week for a survey to confirm it . what a horrible position to put school leader in . should they tell parent about suspect RAAC issue and risk cause unnecessary panic , or should they say nothing to parent about their child learn in a potentially unsafe building ? have the Conservatives not cancel labour ' s school rebuilding programme in 2010 , every secondary school building in England would have be significantly refurbish or rebuild by 2020 . instead , the define image of this Government will be child sit in unfit building , worry that the ceiling could literally crumble above they . if the Conservatives want any credibility on education , they should vote with Labour today to release the document show what the Prime Minister know , when he be Chancellor , about the risk pose to child from RAAC before he slash school rebuilding programme in 2021 , and when he know it . for member who think that parent , child and school staff deserve answer on who be responsible for this mess and have a right to know the true scale of this crisis , there be only one way to vote today , and that be to support this motion . it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate . I have a school in my constituency that be affect by RAAC , Wood Green Academy , and I pay tribute to James Topham , its headteacher , who have do a fantastic job of swinge into action by staggering start time and ensure , as well as possible , that education can continue . I thank my right hon . friend the Minister for Schools for work with I over the weekend and in the early part of this week to address that situation . I know his official have follow the issue closely and will continue to do so . the frustration for Wood Green Academy be that its two affected block house specialist classroom for design and technology , and for other important , specialist part of the curriculum that we need to support , particularly in my constituency , to ensure the participation of student . I pay tribute to the school for its work to minimise disruption . in listen to this debate , it have be nice to hear that the opposition finally remember where Wednesbury be . for the benefit of Labour Members , it be about 12 mile from Birmingham , which be the council they bankrupt yesterday . Wednesbury be in Sandwell , where the council be put into special measure because there be a lack of transparency and borderline corruption in the way that Labour be run the authority . wednesbury be also about 40 mile from Stoke - on - Trent , which have just say it have go bankrupt , too . I will not take lecture from Labour Members on chaos . we need to look at the big picture . my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) give a fantastic speech , and I pay tribute to the measured way in which she tackle this issue . the issue of funding have be at the heart of some of the Opposition ' s line today , but the shame and scandal of Labour ' s PFI programme continue to haunt my community . I hope that when the Minister sum up , he will confirm that if school with PFI contract be impact in any way by the need for emergency remediation , we will consider way to resolve the issue cause . one of my headteacher have have to choose between buy book and pay £ 20 , 000 to get the grass cut — that be the legacy of Labour ' s school building programme , and this be in the most deprived community possible . Labour member sit there and they gaslight , with this arrogance that wind up the community I represent . all they have do be turn their back on those community ; it be as simple as that . every single Labour Member should apologise for the legacy of PFI , because it be scandalous — absolutely scandalous . once again , it be my constituent who will have to suffer for half a century because they lot decide to play fast and loose , however they wish . it be absolutely outrageous . we have to look to the future , and the truth be that Government funding , particularly in my constituency , have be quite generous . last year , there be announcement of condition improvement funding for Silvertrees Academy and Ocker Hill Academy , both in Tipton , in some of the most deprived and needy part of my community . we have also see a 28 % cash increase in the basic need allowance for 2022 - 23 . to say that there have be a slashing of funding and capital investment be a narrative that my community simply do not recognise . the technical point of the motion be important . as I say when we debate a similar motion early this year , the House have mechanism that we can use to allow for the scrutiny that the motion suggest . my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , the Chair of the Select Committee , be no long here , but he touch on that . as the Secretary of State say , and as former Ministers know , although I be unfortunately not one of they , it be important that minister be able to take discreet advice from their official , so that they can make the right decision without fear that official who can not stand up for themselves will be put at the forefront of scrutiny . I can not support the motion , because it undermine a process that Labour Members use themselves when they be in government — please help we if that ever happen again . I find it hilarious that they think that the motion propose a viable process that would not set a precedent in any way , shape or form . let I get to the heart of this : we need transparency . I thank my right hon . friend the Minister for Schools for the work that he have do . we clearly have to look at the matter from an operational point of view , and at the core of it be make sure that child get the education they deserve . I support the motion , which stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) and the Leader of the Opposition . it be interesting to follow the hon . member for West Bromwich West ( Shaun Bailey ) . may I just correct he by say that PFI be start by the Conservative Major Government ? as pupil , parent and teacher be prepare for a new school term last week and this week , they be meet with horrify news that throw into question whether their school be safe to go into . headteacher be leave scramble around over the weekend to arrange new site and portacabin , or , bad , tell parent that their child be not to come into school this week . rise — I will not give way , as I know there be quite a few people to speak . school have be rush to book survey to find out whether they have RAAC . this be a week when parent should be fill with joy and excitement about a new year , take photo of their year 7s in their new uniform , not worry about how to find holiday childcare for another week — or two week , who know ? this situation do not happen by accident . conservative member like to pretend that the past 13 year be a fever dream , but this crisis stem primarily from the decision make in 2010 to cancel labour ' s Building Schools for the Future scheme . it be a massive and historic programme of investment . that investment would have benefit school in my constituency and across England : school that have RAAC ; school that have asbestos ; and school that have have little serious investment over the previous 18 year of conservative government prior to 1997 . in 2010 , the Conservatives cancel that programme because they do not know the value of investment or the role of public service , and do not care about the condition of our school . the Prime Minister be so out of touch with the country that he struggle to use a contactless card machine . what hope do we have that he might really understand UK state school ? when the Prime Minister be Chancellor , he make the decision to block extra funding to the Department for Education — funding that would have go towards fix , repair and improve our school estate . one of the most senior civil servant in that Department even admit that funding for school building be block because the Government want to push more towards free school . for example , that involve pay £ 11 . 25 million of taxpayer ' money — way overpay — for a former sport facility on old metropolitan open land in Osterley . once again , the conservative ideology trump value for money and public safety . we live in a country where ambulance do not turn up , the police have to be order to investigate crime and school building now face collapse . thirteen long year of conservative rule have utterly ruin our public service . there be no more fitting legacy than the fact that the public realm be literally collapse in front of we . the letter I receive from the DFE on Monday say that " there be nothing more important than the safety of child , young people , and staff in education setting " . even if that be the view of official within the DFE , it clearly be not the view of the Prime Minister , who be Chancellor in 2021 when the Government know about this problem — indeed , there have be warning long before that . if the Government really think that there be nothing more important than the safety of child , young people and staff in education setting , why be school collapse and why be child be tell to say at home this week ? hon . member have a choice today : they can vote with labour and give parent the right to know who be responsible for this mess , or they can vote to conceal the true scale of the crisis and the Prime Minister ' s failure to keep our child safe . I be grateful for the chance to speak in the debate , follow the statement make by the Secretary of State for Education early this week . I draw the attention of colleague on both side of the House to the speech make by my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) — this be bad timing on my part , as she be just leave the Chamber — about the legacy of this Government on education , which be something to be proud of . I will not use my time to repeat her point , but when I post on my Facebook page later , I will add a link to her speech so that all my constituent can see it too . in 13 year of conservative government , standard have go through the roof . my right hon . friend the Schools Minister and other in government should be proud of that and trumpet it at every possible opportunity . I can point to recent example in my own constituency , include Queen Elizabeth ' s Academy , Oak Tree Primary School and Vision West Nottinghamshire College , that have go through difficult time in term of quality but be rate " good " , some for the first time ever , because of incredible amount of local work and a drive for high standard and well opportunity for kid in my constituency from this Government . no one should let anybody tell they that the Conservatives do not care about kid , education or school because that be demonstrably nonsense . in the debate , Labour Members have be ask for information that they would never release themselves . if the shoe be on the other foot , they would never allow that to happen and they would vote against such a motion . they know perfectly well that there have to be the ability to have a confidential conversation behind the scene when budget be set , because otherwise no idea would ever come forward and no plan would ever be make . the Government be release information about school in England , which be be publish today , but that can not be do for school in Wales because labour - run Wales do not have that information , as work to mitigate the challenge have not be do . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have very little choice last week when she make the decision . there be no choice about when expert advice come forward and change the balance of risk . she have to take a risk averse , safety - first approach . that be absolutely the right thing to do . the immediate response have be very good . I feel her frustration yesterday , because this work have not just happen in the last week but have be go on for year . the Department for Education take a decision , identify the school , support those school and commit the fund to tackle the problem . that happen fairly quickly and the outcome , as my hon . friend the Member for Newbury say , be that few school be affect than be originally think last week . that be something of a success . the history of the issue go back several year . the idea raise by Opposition Members that the problem emerge only last week or in 2022 be nonsense . I be the leader of a county council , the responsible body for maintain school in my constituency and around it . we have be do survey work with the DFE since 2018 - 19 , so it have be ongoing for a long time . there have be local and national condition improvement fund to work on the quality of those school in that time . as a result , when the announcement be make last week , we have very good datum and information to be able to tackle the situation quickly . the sum total of affected school in Nottinghamshire — there be no affected school in my constituency — be one primary school be delay in its return by a couple of day . that be not an accident ; it have happen because a lot of work , funding and support have go in over a long period of time . in place where that have not happen , the DFE step in directly in 2022 , which be a good and responsible thing to do . I pay tribute to the work of colleague in the Department and in my own council who have manage this well over a number of year . we have a local £ 9 - million school condition improvement fund of our own and four school in my constituency be be rebuild . these be all good news story for school , not just because of the quality of education I have describe , but for school building in my constituency and around it . the level of building — 500 new school over a decade — be consistent with any programme in recent decade . the number under the programme that Labour Members be laud end up be something like 25 or 30 few than that . they never reach the target they say they be go to reach — shock , horror ! this problem be an issue back in 1997 to 2010 , but it be never mention at any point . they tell we now that if they have be in government , they would have use their psychic power to figure out the problem before the expert do and would have tackle it well in advance . of course we know that that be not true or possible . the big concern I want to raise be about reassurance . I have hear three time from Opposition Members that school be literally fall down around our child — name one , because they be not . each time I hear that , I be remind that I will be get email from my constituent say , " I be worried about my kid ' safety in their school , " when no school be affect in my constituency , they do not need to worry and those kid have all go back — every single one — safely to school this week . that fearmongering and rhetoric be irresponsible . parent will be unnecessarily worried about the condition of their kid ' school when I know , for all the reason I have describe , that we have manage this well over a number of year and it be not an issue in my constituency . I urge hon . member to think long and hard before they put that unnecessary stress on parent who be already find this difficult . I thank those on the Opposition Front Bench for select this urgent issue today and my hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) for her opening remark . today ' s debate will mean a lot to my constituent , many of whom have be throw into disarray because of this avoidable scandal . how Tory Back Benchers vote this afternoon will show those constituent just whose side they be on : the side of parent , teacher and pupil , or the side of this rotten Government who need to go . my constituent want two thing today . first , they want Ministers to know exactly what they have to go through when St Leonard ' s Catholic School in my constituency be order to close last Friday . secondly , they want to know what the Government be do for they and their child , so that this crisis do not become a disaster . I mention in my contribution on Monday that the closure of St Leonard ' s cause real difficulty and distress for my constituent . they understand that this be not the fault of St Leonard ' s , which , by the way , have lobby the Schools Minister in the coalition year about its crumble school , but they do know that this be the fault of Conservative Ministers past and present . on Friday , at the last minute , childcare and work have to be rearrange , all against a backdrop of austerity and the cost of living crisis . one of my constituent could not afford to take time off work , so they have to ask their parent to take time off to look after their child . parent have tell I that this have cause their child anxiety and frustration — child who have already be through so much because of the disruption of the pandemic . parent have also write to I to express how horrified they be that they have be send their child to an unsafe school . they be perplex about why the school could not have close early — after all , RAAC be identify in the spring and we have have an entire school holiday to repair this mess . parent and child alike be extremely concerned by the effect that this situation may have on GCSE result . there be already a grade attainment gap due to inequality between the north - east and the rest of the country — something my constituent know all too well — which far compound their anxiety . I should say , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I have hear more practical idea from my constituent than I have from Ministers or the local council , which have be absent throughout this crisis . even in a time of great stress , parent be think of way to help their child and their child ' s friend , as be Durham University , which have be of great assistance to my office since last Friday . the same can not be say of Ministers , who be more concerned with inter - departmental argument between no . 10 and the Department for Education . the Education Secretary tell I on Monday that there would be financial support for St Leonard ' s , but will support also be offer to the parent and pupil who have be affect ? will additional travel cost be reimburse ? will the Department meet extra staff cost ? will the Department meet all the capital cost , or will St Leonard ' s be expect to pay ? and will the Education Secretary return to the House next week to outline a support package ? I be mainly think of those parent of child with special educational need , as well as child on free school meal . a teacher at St Leonard ' s have tell I that they be most concerned about the impact on those child from vulnerable background , for whom school be a safe haven . conservative Members must do the right and honourable thing this afternoon and join we in the Lobby . if they do not , they will have no right to ever say that they be on the side of hard - work parent , pupil or teacher . the education of the next generation be an issue that be close to my heart , as be the case for member across the House — on that we can agree this afternoon . it be our duty to ensure that child can study with minimal disruption . I strongly support the measure that the Secretary of State have take to address the issue of RAAC in school throughout England . I wish to highlight three of those measure . the first be that the Government have act quickly to issue guidance to school on how to manage the risk associate with RAAC , which be in sharp contrast to what the Welsh Government have do . in 2018 , the Department for Education publish guidance for school about the need to have adequate contingency if they have RAAC . it initiate its survey of the school estate for RAAC in March 2022 and update the guidance in light of new evidence last month . the second point that I will make be that the UK Government will ensure that school have the funding that they need so that teacher can focus on get student back to school , and so that student be safe . the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have confirm that the Government will spend what it take to address the problem as quickly as possible so that child can go to school safely . the third point that I will emphasise be that the Government be ensure that the majority of school affect by RAAC remain open for face - to - face teaching , minimise the disruption to student ' learn . by support school to put mitigation in place , the Government have help the majority of school to remain open for face - to - face teaching , ensure that disruption to pupil in affected school be minimise . in contrast , the opposition be play politic and refuse to take responsibility for their failing in Government . they fail to address issue with RAAC , despite warning about the problem in 1997 , 1999 , 2002 and 2007 from the Building Research Establishment and the Standing Committee on Structural Safety . finally , as a Welsh MP for Clwyd South I make no apology for comment on the situation in Wales . I note that no Welsh mp have take part in the debate or be present on the Opposition Benches this afternoon . the Welsh Government have take their eye off the ball , rely on council to do the work that the UK Conservative Government be lead on in England . as I say in my early intervention , the Welsh Government order survey only in May 2023 ; the UK Government start engage with school in March 2022 . where be the accountability ? where be the responsibility ? that lack of preparation work mean that school survey in Wales will not be complete until December this year . education have be devolve to Wales for 26 year . labour be in charge of school in Wales , so building safety be its responsibility . the Welsh Government receive £ 1 . 20 for every £ 1 spend on education in England , but in 2019 the independent Auditor General for Wales discover that only £ 1 . 05 reach the classroom . labour prioritise its vanity project , such as a new blanket 20 mph speed limit , cost the economy £ 4 . 5 billion , and introduce legislation for more politician in the Welsh Parliament , but it have cut the education budget in Wales in real term this year . the Welsh Government ' s approach to RAAC show a woeful lack of responsibility by the Labour party in Wales , of which they and those on the Opposition Benches should be deeply ashamed . a couple of people have drop out , which give we a little more time . I will remove the time limit for a bit and see how we go . I may have to reinstate it , but a little more time be available . while it be welcome that it have be report today that RAAC have not be find in any of our school in Salford , I must stress that the fact that the Government be unable to produce that information until today , have know about the risk since at least 2018 , when a school roof in Kent collapse , be completely unacceptable . I be glad that Salford have no school with RAAC problem , but in Bolton we find out on Friday that St William of York , St Andrew ' s Church of England and St Bernard ' s be affect . St Bernard ' s be not even on any list , and St Gregory ' s be still await the result . do you agree that the Government should publish the full list , not the half - bake one that they publish this afternoon ? order . the hon . Lady know that she must not address she hon . friend as " you " ; otherwise , she be address I . I apologise . I completely agree with my constituency neighbour . I stress that not just school be affect by this crisis ; it extend to public building , and concern have be raise in recent day by the building industry that certain residential property , particularly social housing , could also be affect . on hospital alone , a report by the National Audit Office in July this year say that structurally unsound RAAC be present in at least 41 hospital . the Turnberg building at Salford Royal Hospital be report to be one of they . despite this clear national building safety crisis , there be no detail from Government on what action will or will not be take , no detail on the urgent funding and support that will be provide to remediate and no assurance so far that the cost will not come out of exist school , NHS and local authority budget . worse still , there appear to be an emerge message today from Government that this crisis be stand - alone — that it be simply a sad indictment of less - regulate old building practice that be now outdated . that be not the true story . the real culprit here be the unashamed pursuit of austerity by this Government and the coalition before they . let we not forget that , to start with , the coalition rip up Labour ' s Building Schools for the Future programme in 2010 and never adequately replace it . worse still , between 2009 and 2022 the Department for Education ' s capital spending decline by 37 % in cash term and 50 % in real term . that be in addition to NHS and local authority budget be slash on a similar basis , with the effect that most ongoing public sector estate upgrade programme be tear to shred . sadly , as the Institute for Fiscal Studies state : " the current crisis illustrate just how costly fail to keep on top of necessary investment in building and infrastructure can be . " how much money be actually require , have the Government take action on school when it should have ? the National Audit Office in 2017 publish a report on capital spending that state that it would cost £ 6 . 7 billion to return all school to a satisfactory or well condition . that report be also clear that there be a significant risk of major cost arise from deterioration of the estate . action be need in 2017 , but in November 2020 , in the Government spending review , they allocate only £ 3 . 1 billion — less than half the amount of investment require just to keep building tick over safely . then the story become even more absurd : in March 2022 , realise that there be a problem , the Department for Education send a questionnaire to all school ask if they have RAAC on their estate , but later tell school not to spend any money on survey to find out . even after that , in May 2022 , when government document be leak to the Observer show that school building could be a risk to life — cause great alarm in school up and down the country — half the school then apply for funding to remediate and do not get a penny from Government . in June 2023 , the National Audit Office say the condition of school building be " decline " and warn that 700 , 000 pupil be learn in building that it describe as unsafe or ageing . it state clearly that the DfE have receive significantly less funding for school building than it estimate it need between 2016 and 2023 . the Government know that this crisis be come , and the cause of this crisis be very deliberate . austerity be , be and always will be a political choice , but it be both immoral and economically illiterate . the only political choice the Government should have make be to ensure the safety of their people . sadly , if they have make that choice , the cost borne then would be a mere shadow of the cost require today . to assist with guidance , I will put a seven - minute limit on . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , my fellow Science , Innovation and Technology Committee member . we begin this debate with a bit of a lecture from the shadow Education Secretary , who presume to tell we what the nature of government be . government involve difficult decision ; it involve respond to event , but it also involve live within our mean and prioritise the safety of the people we represent — in particular that of child . as other hon . member have say in this debate , I honestly believe the Education Secretary have no other option : when the risk assessment change , as a result of thing that happen just in August , she take a rapid , proactive and very precautionary decision to make sure we address it in the most appropriate way possible . she demonstrate the wisdom of that approach in the response she give member on both side of the House during her statement on Monday . when Labour be in charge of thing , it do not always take that approach ; it fail on all the thing that I have mention . labour fail in place such as Birmingham , where it have run out of money , and in neighbour Stoke - on - Trent , which look like it will go bankrupt as well ; it have clobber people with taxis in place such as London , where the Mayor and his ultra low emission zone be epically unpopular with voter and the hard - work family who have to pay that cost ; and , of course , on this particular issue , Labour fail in Wales , where it have have its head in the sand . I have look at the BBC list of all the affect school in England , Scotland and Wales . for Wales , there be a link to one article that say that only two affected school be find , both in Anglesey . well , in a construction scandal that have affect country across the world , with all the building build with RAAC over the year , if there be only two in the whole of the Welsh education establishment , I will eat my hat . two have be find in Anglesey , but Labour need to get its finger out and start find the other as soon as possible . instead , the shadow Education Secretary indulge in the luxury of opposition . what have Labour Members focus on since this story break ? they want the list . why do they want the list ? they want to scaremonger and whip up a media storm about it . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , who be no long in her place , mention on Monday a special school in her constituency . the name of that school get into the press — presumably the local press — and the school be then mob by national medium . that be presumably what Labour want to happen in all case . one school in my constituency , Sir Thomas Boughey Academy in Halmer End , be on the list . that school be very instructive on why we be right to have take the course that we have , because it have be proactive and , work with the dedicated caseworker provide by the DfE , have explain thing to parent . in fact , the school have already take much of the require action to repair the hall , classroom and roof construction in which it find RAAC . there be currently a small amount leave in a boiler room , but it be be remove and the room have be make safe . that school be able to be open today with face - to - face teaching in all classroom and no restriction . only that boiler room still have RAAC because the school take proactive action , and that show the value of the work that the English Government — the UK Government — have be do in get that survey ahead of time . that be not happen in Wales because Labour have not do the work . we be proud of our record on education , and my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) speak powerfully about that . output matter most , but on input , we be provide record funding in real term , with a school budget of nearly £ 60 billion next year . we have record number of teacher — 468 , 000 — and a teacher ' s start salary be now an extremely competitive £ 30 , 000 , deliver on a pledge that the Government make . on top of that , we be spend £ 181 million on initial teacher training incentive to get people into the area in which we need to see more teacher , include math and science . we on the Science and Technology Committee conduct an inquiry on diversity in science , technology , engineering and math , and we consider the need for well teaching in science , particularly for girl . we be deliver that through teacher training incentive . output be more important , and our record be absolutely outstanding : 88 % of school be rate " good " or " outstanding " compare with the 68 % figure that we inherit from the Labour party in 2010 . an English 18 - year - old from a disadvantaged background be now 86 % more likely to go to university than they be a decade ago — I represent a number of disadvantaged community — and I be proud of that record . many of those people go to Keele University in my constituency . phonic be the absolute epic success story of this period of Conservative Government . I pay tribute to the Minister for Schools , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , who be sit on the Treasury Bench . our primary child be now the good in the western world at read . we have rocket up the league table not just for reading and literacy , but for math . we be proud of our record here in England . sadly , the scottish education system be not as good . by deliver what we have through phonic , we be give child the good possible tool to succeed in a world in which they will need more and more of those tool . in all honesty , give the amount of money that be available to Labour during the boom time for the City in the 1997 - 2010 Parliaments — of course , it then famously run out — it should be ashamed of its record . not only do Labour not deliver the Building Schools for the Future programme , about which Labour member have speak many time today , but it be a costly and slow scheme that do not deliver what it promise . More than that , Labour fail on output . it leave child unable to read or write . we have put that right in our time in government . I be very proud of what we have do on education . I think that we have react in a responsible way to the RAAC situation . as I say on Monday , I recognise that the timing be terrible . I pay tribute to Mrs Hingley and her staff at Sir Thomas Boughey Academy for what they have do to ensure that their school , like so many other on the list , remain open for full face - to - face teaching today . it be not the case that child be cower in classroom , which be an appalling thing for the shadow Education Secretary to say . what they be do be learn , which be what they should be do . it be a privilege to have the opportunity to contribute to this debate , but I must say that I be particularly disappoint by the tone with which it have start . this be a very serious issue : there be a high number of concerned parent and teacher and headteacher who work in those building , and obviously , their primary concern be the child . I would specifically point out the selective interpretation and opportunism show by Labour Members , because they only have to look the other side of Offa ' s Dyke or the Prince of Wales Bridge to see what be happen in Wales . they forget that Labour have be in power in Wales for 26 year — if that have not be sufficient time to reform education and rebuild these building , I do not know how long they will need . let we remember that education in Wales be entirely devolve . that give the Administration the freedom to survey , assess and repair building , and rebuild they where necessary . labour have be in power for 26 year , but the reality be that we still do not know the state of the building in Wales . that be the truth of the Labour Administration . the synthetic anger we have hear from the Labour Benches have create an awful lot of hot air , but I can direct exactly the same question and accusation at the Administration in Wales . they have be there for 26 year , but we still do not know . can we imagine the synthetic anger that we would hear from Labour Front Benchers , and Back Benchers , if the Secretary of State or the Minister say today , " I be sorry , but we still do not know ; it be go to take another couple of week " ? there would be understandable outrage , but Labour Members be completely ignore the situation and the state of the education service in Wales . the right hon . Gentleman be talk about Wales . speak as an English MP , the BBC be report that at least 13 school with RAAC be set to be rebuild under a Labour plan , but those building project be scrap by the Conservative - lead Government in 2010 . the former Secretary of State for Education , the right hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , say that he scrap that scheme because he do not want to " waste any more money " , and work on 700 school be halt . do the right hon . Gentleman not agree that that be an appalling thing for he to do ? with the great respect to the hon . Lady , I be not sure whether she be refer to Wales or to England . the point I be make be that Labour have be in power in Wales for 26 year . two school have be identify as have RAAC issue , but we simply do not know about the rest . there would be understandable anger and frustration if the Secretary of State or the Minister dare to come out with that response . no Welsh Labour MP have participate in this debate , and up until now , none have even be present in the Chamber . let we remember that the former First Minister in Wales say in relation to education that the Welsh Administration have take their " eye off the ball " . I do not think their eye have ever be replace on the ball , bear in mind the standard in Wales . many colleague on the Conservative Benches have list a whole host of education outcome and uplift — my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) just go through a whole host of success , and other colleague have mention the number of good , excellent and outstanding school here in England — but sadly , my constituent do not get the same benefit . any international comparison , be it the programme for international student assessment or any other , show that Wales have fall back in comparison with England . the Opposition day motion be opportunistic , as we have already highlight , but let we at least humour it for a moment . when the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) respond for Labour , will she assure I that if my colleague in the Welsh Senedd table this motion , Labour Members will support it ? exactly the same question apply in Wales as in England , so I ask she to respond specifically to that question . I will happily give way if any Labour Front Benchers want to intervene now , but I notice that they be all keep their head down . they be frightened ; I suggest that they be embarrassed to look at I , and to respond to the question that we be raise . the investigation start in England 18 month ago , and it start at a much late point in Wales . the reality be that we still do not know the outcome , and we have two week leave to wait . I can imagine the anger that would be feel by Labour Members if that position be share by my right hon . friend the Minister . however , let we be realistic about this : new evidence come to light and therefore new decision need to be take , and that be exactly what have happen in this situation . there be a whole host of Ministers , official , teacher and parent co - ordinate effort to make a real difference and get through this immediate challenge , much of which will be very short - term . this have be a long - stand problem , and there be a need for a whole host of quick decision to be take , as well as for transparency and for clarity . let I close my contribution with the comment of the Children ' s Commissioner for Wales . this be not from any party political person , but from an independent individual appoint by the Welsh Government . she have say that the statement issue by the Welsh Government Minister so far " don ' t give family the clarity they need on what this mean for they or the next step for their school " , and on " what exactly will happen over the next few week and reassurance that school be safe . " that be from the Children ' s Commissioner for Wales , appoint with statutory responsibility to protect the interest of child , and even she have lose faith in the decision making , transparency and clarity of the Welsh Government . finally , will the shadow Minister reassure I that , if my friend or colleague in the Senedd table this motion , Labour Members will support it ? I rise to speak in this debate because I suspect I have mention RAAC on the Floor of the House more time than most since I be elect . indeed , I have be bang on about this issue since my maiden speech three and a half year ago . my focus have be on RAAC in the health sector and hospital , particularly the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in King ' s Lynn . unfortunately , it happen to be the most prop hospital in the country . it have many thousand of steel and timber support prop in place , and they be there to keep the staff and patient safe . that failsafe work have be fund by the Government at a cost of ten of million of pound , as it have be in other hospital . that demonstrate a commitment to address RAAC issue in hospital , as well as across the education sector , other part of the public sector and public building . I be delighted that the Health Secretary announce in May that the Queen Elizabeth Hospital and the other RAAC hospital would be add to the new hospital build programme , the big hospital building programme in history , and we will have a new hospital in King ' s Lynn by 2030 . that really underline the commitment of this government to deal with RAAC . I have discuss this directly with my right hon . friend the Prime Minister on a number of occasion , as well as with his adviser and many Ministers . ironically , give the issue I have have locally in the NHS , I have not be notify so far of any issue of school be affect in my constituency of North West Norfolk . when recent event occur Ministers respond rapidly , and that have cause concern for pupil , parent and teacher , not least give the timing , which be not of course in the Minister ' s gift . I understand that concern well from my local hospital . work around prop and other support measure bring many challenge for staff and patient , as it will for teacher and pupil . have have the new advice , work be now under way in school to ensure that they remain safe space for child to learn and for staff to work . other Members have attest to the rapid nature of the support provide by my right hon . friend the Minister as well as by Baroness Barran and other in the Department . in Norfolk , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) have an affected school . I know that he be support it to manage the issue , work closely with the Department for Education . as it and other school across the country do that , it be right that the Chancellor have commit to spend whatever it take to address these issue and to keep pupil safe . we hear early during Prime Minister ' s question about the increase spending that he approve for maintenance in the education budget in his previous role . I welcome that , and I welcome the extra £ 2 billion funding this year and next , give the pressure that school be face . that be vital to continue the major improvement that we have see in literacy and other standard through our reform , which my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) set out so ably . I also declare an interest as a governor of a school that be part of the school rebuilding programme — a programme that will deliver 500 new school as well as deal with maintenance and backlog issue . I hope that the considerable expertise that exist in the Department of Health and Social Care , the NHS , other part of Government , and externally , be be share and make available to school , adviser and local authority , as well as co - ordinate through the Cabinet Office , so that other potentially affected sector , such as our prison estate and court , also benefit from it . of course pupil , staff and parent at affected school be concern , and it be important that we tackle these issue in a serious and consider manner , and not by use some of the alarmist language we have hear today that will just create unnecessary concern . I know from issue that my hospital have face — I be a regular visitor , talk to staff — how important it be for the confidence of staff and patient that we do this in a measured and responsible way , learn from what we know about RAAC in the NHS and elsewhere , and how we have secure it . school leader will always put the safety of their pupil first . we should ensure that they have all the support and resource they need to do that , and that be what this Government be do . it be only day three of a new term , yet once again we find ourselves in the position of have an Opposition day debate on an incredibly important subject that be pure politicking from the Labour party . we have not hear anything new , other than what we hear at the beginning of the week when we devote an hour and a half to a mature and sensible debate on this matter . I would have hope that Labour Members would have spend the long summer recess reflect that so often these debate make thing bad , not well , because they frighten the public and spread confusion and misinformation . sadly that have not be the case , and once again , today we have hear point scoring , misinformation and scaremongering . I believe what the public want and deserve at this point be a responsible sense of risk and proportion about this problem . we know that 156 school have be affect by RAAC , 52 of which — one third — already have mitigation measure in place . only 104 school be inform this week , which be under 0 . 5 % of the 22 , 500 school across the country . some have be close as a precaution , include one in my constituency that I will come on to talk about . the vast majority of school in our country be not closed , and even some of those with RAAC have not be close in their entirety . the majority be expect to open next week . unlike Labour Members , I wholeheartedly applaud this Government for put the interest of pupil , family and staff first . the absolute last thing we could possibly want be for a disaster to happen in any one of our school , but we should not be spread fear or exaggerate the scale of this problem . it be recklessly irresponsible to scare child by suggest that their school be not safe , when they overwhelmingly be — 99 % of school in this country be safe , and child have go back and be learn in they . over the past 13 year , this Conservative Government have invest in their school and school building . we have invest £ 28 billion since 2010 . we have invest £ 15 billion since 2015 , to improve the safety of our school , with priority give to those with potential safety issue . of course we be committed to go far than that , and as a member of the Education Committee , I have a strong focus on this area . accord to the Commons Library , estimate capital spending in our school for the past financial year — 2022 - 23 — be around £ 6 . 4 billion . that be a 29 % real - term increase compare with the year before . we be also undertake a huge rebuilding and refurbishment programme to improve over 400 of our school , include Blenheim Primary School in Southend , which very much welcome be part of this programme . I be look forward to see spade go into the ground . if I may , I remind the Schools Minister that he would be welcome to come to Blenheim Primary School to see that new refurbishment take place . let we compare our record with Labour ' s record in government . its Building Schools for the Future programme be slow , costly and substandard . that be an apt description , I would say , of the entire last Labour Government . in 2006 , the Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment find that half the school build by Labour be architecturally substandard , with a mere 4 % be excellent . we need to understand not only exactly why RAAC be use in school but , more importantly , how we can avoid anything like this happen in the future . we need to ask whether all the money that we be spend on remediation measure would not perhaps be spend more sensibly on rebuild programme . there be a range of thing we need to look at , and that be why I call yesterday for a special session of the Education Committee look into this issue . the point of that session be to learn and scrutinise , not to point finger as the Labour party be seek to do today . in Essex , we be disproportionately affect by RAAC because we have such an extensive school building programme in the 1950 and 1960 . sadly , in my constituency , the brilliant Kingsdown School be close this week after RAAC be find in some of its building . Kingsdown School be the only special school in the country that have this problem , so the House will forgive I for dwell on its issue in particular . it be wait for three thing . the first be the result of a risk assessment . the inspector appropriately go in very quickly last week , but the school need the result of that risk assessment if it be to open next week . it also need emergency equipment in the form of portaloo , demountable classroom and a portable staff room . those thing have be promise , and the soon they be deliver , the well . the third thing be remediation measure , because these plan be short - term and the child in the school be among the most disabled , physically and mentally , in Southend , if not the south - east . this be a special school where some of the child need special feeding equipment or a special temperature . there be hoist everywhere . this be not a normal school , and these remediation measure be vital . it be a special school , and I make no apology for argue that it should be a special case . I finish by applaud the work of the headmistress , Louise Robinson , who have be work around the clock along with Conservative - control Southend - on - Sea City Council ; Councillor Helen Boyd , the cabinet member there ; and Liz Hunt . they have be work hard to get thing move . the only thing that have not be helpful at all have be the press attention on this special school . the headmistress tell I that she can not pick up the telephone because the press be focus on this school . that be appal when one consider how anxious the parent and child must be . it be a completely inappropriate intrusion . I finish by remind the Labour party that by call today ' s debate — order . the hon . Lady have run out of time . this be a concern issue , and the amount of politicking and scaremongering of parent , teacher and pupil that the opposition do on it worry I . many school and public building build with RAAC be characteristic of the brutalist style of architecture favour between the ' 50 and ' 70 . the building be cheap and not build to last , and they pop up under various government . that show the seemingly prevailing attitude of short - termism at the time ; government know it would be somebody else ' s problem in the future , as indeed it be now . it must have be the same attitude that prevail in 1997 and 2002 , when a Labour Government take no action on RAAC , despite be warn about the danger by the Building Research Establishment . my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) stand at the Dispatch Box in the coalition era and criticise labour ' s Building Schools for the Future programme for often target the wrong school , and in the light of this week ' s evidence , it seem that he have be prove right , so I find the opposition ' s outrage quite performative . the Department for Education , as I understand it , publish guidance to school on the topic in 2018 . I be sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker , but my back have just go . I have a problem with my back . carry on . I be sorry to hear that . I will move on to the next speaker , Munira Wilson . I do hope that the hon . member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) be okay . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the House for allow I to go and lead a Westminster Hall debate just now ; that be why I be out of the Chamber for 30 minute . the crumble concrete crisis be one that I first raise with the Secretary of State on the Floor of the House back in January . it be extremely damaging for several reason . it be not just because anxious parent have have to tell their child why their school be shut , or drive they to alternative site . it be not just because child ' s learning have be disrupt yet again , with some eat lunch in marquee or go to the toilet in portacabin . it be a concrete sign of a Government who have give up on community up and down the country . for many family , the school be the public service that they interact with most . when parent read about crumble concrete ; when the parent - teacher association have to fundraise for basic repair and maintenance ; and when the local school ' s rebuilding plan be reject year after year , they know that the Government have let they down and take they for grant . just consider how that make our young people feel . if their classroom have bucket in various corner ; if they spend all day in a coat because the boiler be break ; or , bad , if their school close altogether , the message that they hear be that they do not matter — that their education , their future , be not worth invest in . when the announcement be make , parent look to the Conservative Government for three thing : empathy , responsibility and leadership . I be sorry to say that they have provide none of they . a government with empathy would not put out a social medium advert say that " most school be unaffected " . instead , they would tell concerned parent that one school with risky RAAC be one too many . this may be just the tip of the iceberg . some school in Twickenham and Richmond be await survey . other council be wade through the guidance and complain that the DfE have lose the questionnaire they have send in . pupil just over the river from my constituency at St Paul ' s Primary School in Thames Ditton , at Langney Primary Academy in Eastbourne , or at the Royal College Manchester in Cheadle will now want the Government to give they a concrete timeline on when their at - risk building will be repair . an Education Secretary who understand collective responsibility would take the flak for her Government ' s failing , not pass the buck and fish for compliment . a Prime Minister who show leadership would listen to his official and invest in our child . be it " completely and utterly wrong " to blame he for the crisis ? let I ask this : who be Chancellor in 2022 , when , accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , the three - year average spend on education capital be at its low since 2004 ? who be Chancellor when education official tell the Treasury that it would cost £ 5 billion to mitigate the most serious risk of building failure , yet sign off only two third of that amount ? who be the Chancellor who be tell to build more than 200 school a year but approve only 50 ? it be the right hon . member for Richmond ( Yorks ) ( Rishi Sunak ) . these penny - pinch tactic be come back to bite he , yet even now , the Treasury will not stump up new cash to remove the RAAC ; it be put off repair to other dilapidated school building . every crumble classroom stand as a concrete sign of year of conservative neglect of our child and our community . of course , pupil safety be paramount and unsafe classroom should be shut , but we should never have get to this point . this crisis be year in the making . liberal Democrats know that when we invest in the fabric of our school , we invest in our child ' s future . our nursery , school and college should have be treat as critical infrastructure , yet too often with this Government , child be an afterthought . liberal Democrats would have invest in our school , remove risky RAAC and clear the backlog of school repair . in May , I tell the House : " neglect school and college building endanger our child and may well contribute to this Government ' s downfall . " — [ Official Report , 23 May 2023 ; Vol . 733 , c . 249 . ] I be sorry to say , on behalf of parent , pupil and school staff , that the chicken be come home to roost . before I call the shadow Minister , I want to emphasise how important it be that those who contribute to the debate get back in good time for the wind - up . there be those who be not here , which be discourteous to the shadow Minister . this debate be incredibly important , as it get to the heart of the responsibility that we all share to the next generation — a responsibility to give every child the good start in life , and the opportunity to thrive at school and throughout their life , and , above all , a responsibility to keep child safe . the Government be not just fail in that fundamental responsibility ; worse , they be hide — from reality , from scrutiny and from the consequence of their decision over 13 long year . those consequence mean that this week , child can not go to school because their building be unsafe . and still the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister — and , I have to say , hon . member on the Government Benches — be desperately try to pass the buck . they be refuse to be honest about the fact that they speak not just for this Government today , but for the government in which they have serve , and on whose record they stand . the Secretary of State have be ask for praise today , because she finally publish the list of affected school , but this be about much more than the school on her list . it be about school the length and breadth of this country that be not fit for our child to learn in or staff to work in . that be why our motion ask for two thing . first , we be ask for the Department for Education submission to the spending review in which , instead of increase school building budget , the Prime Minister — then Chancellor — choose to cut they . secondly , we be ask for the correspondence on those submission , like that release in the Observer last year , in which official at the Department for Education warn that school building be a risk to life . the hon . Lady be make a number of serious allegation . do she apply those equally to the Welsh Government , consider that they have be in power and in charge of education for 26 year in Wales ? I repeat the point I make in my contribution : would Labour Members in the Senedd support a similar motion that would achieve the same effect , if table by conservative colleague ? unlike the Conservative Government in England , the Welsh Government be invest in rebuild school , which be why they face a different situation from the one we face . today we be look at history and for transparency , not for a geography lesson . parent and the wide public deserve to know how and why decision be take , such as why the number of school that the Government be plan to rebuild each year have be cut to just 50 . the Prime Minister have be look for plaudit , but under his leadership , the Treasury almost halve the money go into school building . this week we hear the former permanent secretary say that he be shock when the number of school that the Government plan to rebuild each year be not increase to 300 , but cut . that be what official say be need to keep child safe ; not thrive — we be not talk about bell and whistle — but just safe . the Prime Minister , as Chancellor , say no to the request to rebuild our school and make they safe , just as he turn down a request to deliver a proper recovery programme for the child recover from the pandemic . while donate to american college , he have condemn child in England to crumble building and , now , another round of learn from home . conservative Members have a choice today . they can vote with we to be honest with parent , pupil and staff about the decision the Prime Minister take and the consequence for our child , or they can stay in their " not I , guv " rank and vote to keep parent in the dark yet again . the Prime Minister promise to lead a Government of integrity and accountability , so today , at least , they have an opportunity to make that a reality . my hon . friend the Members for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) , for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) , for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) , for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) , for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) and for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) all make incredibly powerful speech about the importance of this issue to the child , parent and school staff in their area . many conservative Members also highlight the challenge the issue have pose in their constituency , yet all seek to deflect the blame . that be why this debate be about take responsibility . the speech from my hon . friend set out very clearly why this matter to the parent and in particular the child in our constituency who be affect by it . we be , of course , please that the Government finally publish the list of school this morning , but be they sure it be accurate ? just today we be hear report that school the Secretary of State tell to — if I be allow to say it — get off their arsis have in fact return their RAAC survey and , in some case , have go ahead and remedie the RAAC themselves in the absence of any support from the Government . other school be emerge that be not on the list but have be identify as have RAAC . there be concern , and it explain why the Secretary of State have be so reluctant to release the list . there seem to be a lot of chaos in Government , not only in the lead - up to this situation but in handle it at this stage . I have no doubt — [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have literally just walk in . I be not sure what his contribution be at this stage , but I will come on to he in a moment . I have no doubt that when the Minister of State stand up , he will , like the Secretary of State , want to talk about Labour ' s record on education , so I think I would get ahead of he . labour in government reduce class size by recruit thousand of new teacher and introduce teach assistant to raise standard for all our child . we increase participation in post - 16 education and see record number progress to university . and we have a school rebuilding programme . build Schools for the future set out a pathway to rebuild or refurbish every secondary school in England , back up by the primary capital programme to invest in the maintenance and repair of primary school across the country . the last Labour Government set out a plan to transform our country ' s school estate , lead to improvement in standard and behaviour and make school a safe place for child to learn , because Labour know then , as we know now , that child can not get a first - class education in a second - class school . it only take the current Levelling up Secretary six year to admit that he regret scrap the Building Schools for the Future programme and cancel over 700 school building project , but it seem that the lesson he learn be not be pass on to his colleague . it will therefore be for the next Labour Government to make our school estate one to be proud of once more and to make sure that every child in every corner of the country can go to an excellent local school . I expect the Minister will also quote from the James review and tell the House about the survey of school building that his Government have undertake . when he do , perhaps he could clarify this . on 11 January this year , the Minister respond to a write question from the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , state that their survey be " visual inspection only , and do not assess the overall structural integrity of a building . " two day later , in response to another question from my hon . friend , he repeat that , say that the condition data collection be " not a safety survey " . however , less than a month later , on 7 February , he say that the survey provide a " robust evidence base " for target capital funding . it would be helpful if the Minister explain how both those statement can be true at the same time , and how a survey can provide a " robust evidence base " if it be not assess safety or structural integrity . what this look like to I be yet more chaos and contradiction from the Government . it be become clear by the day that 13 year of conservative government have fail our child . for our school estate , they have be 13 year of cut - price sticking - plaster solution and inefficient repair , when green rebuild and long - term plan be require . we have see age building , many of which be build decade if not more than a century ago , with unmet repair , crack wall , asbestos , bucket place in classroom catch leak and crumble roof . the Government ' s complacency on this be unforgivable , but it be clear that they be not go to own up voluntarily to the scale of this problem or their failure . whether the issue be lockdown party , speed ticket , Government contract or school building , this Government be incapable of transparency . that be why the House must force they to be transparent and to be honest with parent about the choice they make to leave the school estate crumble around our child , because it be parent , child and school staff whose life could be at risk — those be not my word , but the word of senior official in the Department for Education . last year , the Government invite bid from school for building replacement or repair . More than 1 , 000 school apply , yet the Prime Minister proudly tell we that he plan to rebuild just 500 over the next decade . we be already see the impact of these short - sighted decision on our school estate . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Hallam have tell the House that a parent in her constituency be injure when a piece of cladding fall on she . a recent freedom of information request from Schools Week find that a teacher be reportedly admit to hospital after be hit by a fall ceiling tile at a school in Bradford . what could have happen if those event have occur at a different time or place when there be more child in the classroom do not bear think about . until the Government own up to their responsibility , it fall to the House to ensure that child go to school that be safe , that teacher and staff be not put at risk , and that we be honest with the public about the decision that have be make . for more than a decade , conservative government have neglect that duty . as my hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South say in her opening speech , the define image of 13 year of Tory government will be child cower under the steel support that stop the ceiling fall down . I say to the Government , " come clean , own up , and support our motion today . " let I start by welcome the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) to her new post and congratulate she once again on she — in my view — promotion to that position . this have be a debate on an important subject , but behind all the understandable concern be one key piece of information that the House and the country need . until last week , the advice and guidance that the Department for Education issue to school be that if RAAC be present in a building , structural surveyor should assess it , and that if it be grade as be in a critical condition , the building should be take out of use . where RAAC be assess as non - critical , the advice be to continue monitor it , but not to take the building out of use . what happen over the summer be that the Department be make aware of three case — one commercial and two in school , one of which be outside England — in which RAAC that have be grade as non - critical collapse or fail . it have become clear that visual assessment alone would not definitively identify a crack panel that be on the verge of failure . give that evidence , I say this to every Member of the House : " how would your decision differ from that of the Secretary of State and Ministers at the Department for Education on the question of whether to change the guidance to require all building with critical and non - critical RAAC to be take out of use ? what would your decision have be , give that evidence ? " . professional advice from technical expert on RAAC have evolve over time ; indeed , the question of how to manage its risk across all sector have span successive government since 1994 . the Department for Education systematically make the sector aware of the late guidance from technical engineer in 2018 , follow a sudden roof collapse at a primary school . we publish a warning note , with the Local Government Association , that ask all responsible body to identify any property construct use RAAC and to ensure that RAAC property be regularly inspect by a structural engineer . in February 2021 , we issue a guide on identify RAAC . concerned that not all responsible body be act quickly enough , in 2022 we decide to take a more direct approach . we issue a questionnaire to the responsible body for all 22 , 000 school to ask they to identify whether they have , or suspect they have , RAAC . responsible body have submit response to those questionnaire for 95 % of school with block build in the target era and we actively chase the remain response . in September 2022 , we start a significant programme of technical survey , with the DfE send a professional surveyor to assess whether RAAC be present in those school where the responsible body have respond to the questionnaire say that there be suspect RAAC . there be more than 22 , 000 school and college in England , and the vast majority of they be unaffected by RAAC . to date , 52 school and college have put mitigation in place . of the 156 school in the list we publish today , 104 be provide continued face - to - face teaching for all pupil . a further 20 school have some pupil learn off - site and 19 have delay the start of term by a few day to ensure that pupil can start of the term in face - to - face teach safely on site . only a very small number — four — have need to move to remote education . they include St Leonard ' s Catholic School in Durham , which be mention by the hon . member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) . every school and college that be impact have a dedicated caseworker to help implement a mitigation plan . this will include use other space on the school site , in nearby school or elsewhere in the local area until structural support or temporary building be instal . we have increase the supply of temporary building , work with three contractor , and we have accelerate the installation of these . we have the support of lead utility company to ensure that those temporary classroom can be connect to the utility and open . in the small number of school with confirm RAAC that have disruption to face - to - face teaching , this have last only a matter of day in the past . we have also set up an operational hotline to ensure that member of this House and other interested party can , if appropriate , fast - track issue to caseworker . since 2010 , we have invest billion of pound in school capital . we have create over 1 million more school place and open over 650 new free school , help to drive up academic standard in some of the most disadvantaged part of the country . we launch the priority school building programme , rebuild or refurbish 260 school between 2012 and 2017 . in 2015 , we launch the priority school building programme 2 , rebuild or refurbish 272 school between 2015 and 2020 . in 2020 , the Prime Minister , when he be Chancellor , announce the school rebuild programme to invest in 500 project over the next decade for new and refurbish school building , prioritise building in the poor condition . it be only this Government who have conduct survey of the whole school estate , start with the property datum survey in 2012 . we have the condition datum collection in 2017 and now we be partway through the third survey of all our school . it be only because of this work that we can target capital spending on rebuild school in the bad condition . there have be question from hon . member on the detail of the funding arrangement to support affected school and college . to reiterate the word of the Chancellor , we will " spend what it take " to keep child safe . that include pay for the emergency mitigation work need to make building safe , include alteration and alternative classroom space on school and college site where necessary . where school need additional help with revenue cost , such as transport to other location , we be actively engage with every school affect to put appropriate support in place . we will also fund the long - term refurbishment or rebuilding project where these be need to rectify RAAC in the long term . the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) complain about school close because of RAAC but , as I have say , only four of the 156 list school have actually close . my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) be right to say that it be clear this Government be take a zero - risk approach to the safety of building where new evidence emerge . the hon . member for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) and the shadow Education Secretary , the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , both raise the issue of asbestos . all school have an asbestos register and , if asbestos need to be remove to put in place RAAC mitigation work , it will be remove . my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) correctly challenge the Opposition to say whether they think the Secretary of State have take the right decision , and they could not answer because they know it be the right decision . he ask important and serious question about how RAAC be allow to be use in the first place . the hon . member for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) seem very cross on behalf of his constituent but , of course , none of the 156 school on the list we publish today be in his constituency or in Liverpool . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) raise the issue of cost , and we will cover all capital cost and , subject to need , revenue cost . school should discuss this with the DfE . my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , in a brilliant speech , be right to quote Philip Collins ' s article in the Times this week , set out how standard have rise in our school because of conservative policy on the curriculum and on phonic since 2010 , and because of all the work do by Education Secretaries since 2010 , include my right hon . friend the Members for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) and for Chichester ( Gillian Keegan ) . my hon . friend the Member for Newbury rightly cite all the new school building in her constituency , as we can also see throughout the country . my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich West ( Shaun Bailey ) , in a passionate speech , be right to criticise the PFI arrangement under Labour ' s Building Schools for the Future programme , which we be all pay for today . in their brilliant speech , my hon . friend the Members for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) and for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) be both right to say that the Secretary of State have take the right decision in the interest of safety . my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd South ( Simon Baynes ) be right to contrast the swift action by this Government with the approach take by Wales . that point be also make by the former Secretary of State for Wales , my right hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Alun Cairns ) . my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) be prescient , as always on so many thing , in raise in this House , on a number of occasion , the issue of RAAC in the NHS . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) speak about Kingsdown School , and I will raise the three issue she mention . under conservative government since 2010 , despite the challenge of manage the aftermath of the 2007 to 2009 banking crash and the state of the public finance we inherit from the previous Government , despite the huge financial challenge of support the economy and household income during covid , and despite the energy price hike as a result of Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine — despite the massive financial implication of all these challenge — we have create 1 million more school place and invest heavily in improve the quality of the school estate . we be spend record amount on school : £ 59 . 6 billion next year , the high on record in cash term , in real term and in real term per pupil . standard be rise , with 88 % of school judge good or outstanding today , compare with 68 % in 2010 . math standard be rise , with England excelling in international league table , and the reading ability of our nine - year - old be now the fourth good of the 43 country that test child of the same age . we put the safety of child and staff above all else . we have proactively seek out RAAC in our school , more comprehensively than any other jurisdiction . we have monitor the grow evidence on RAAC , and we act swiftly and with caution for the safety of child and staff at every step . when the evidence change , we change our advice to school . we be support and fund the repair and temporary remedy that we need to put in place in the tiny minority of school that have be affect . that be our approach , and I urge hon . member to back that caution and concern about the safety of our child and school staff by vote overwhelmingly against this motion tonight . question put . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Colleen Fletcher Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris John Healey Meg Hillier Kate Hollern George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Sarah Jones Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan James Murray Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Navendu Mishra Taiwo Owatemi Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards the House divide : Ayes 175 , Noes 309 . question accordingly negative . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Environmental Protection that the draft Environmental Permitting ( England and Wales ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 28 June , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medicines that the draft Human Medicines ( Amendment relate to original Pack dispensing ) ( England and Wales and Scotland ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 29 June , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . Petitions Petition - West Midlands Combined Authority I rise to present this petition , which mirror the " Warwickshire , let ' s not be Run by Brum " e - petition that I launch on my website in July 2023 , currently sign by just under 1 , 000 people . it reflect widespread public concern about the proposal make by the west midland Mayor Andy Street and the conservative leader of Warwickshire County Council to annex Warwickshire and to include it under the West Midlands Combined Authority ahead of next May ' s west midland mayoral election , which would be tantamount to naked gerrymandering . the petitioner therefore request that " the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that Warwickshire County Council be not absorb into the West Midlands Combined Authority . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Warwick and Leamington , declare that warwickshire resident do not wish to join the West Midlands Combined Authority ; far declare that that any discussion hold between the West Midlands Combined Authority and Warwickshire County Council should be hold openly and transparently ; and that a referendum be hold so the public can have their say on any propose plan . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that Warwickshire County Council be not absorb into the West Midlands Combined Authority . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002845 ] petition - Funding for Local Pharmacies I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent in Bradford South , although I know that this issue be recognise right across the country . I have receive 280 letter from constituent on this subject , reflect the strength of feeling across Bradford , and in particular among those who be serve by their local pharmacy in the area of Wyke . the petition reflect concern across Bradford that the Government have strip proper funding for pharmacy to act as community access point for NHS support and face - to - face healthcare support . the petitioner therefore request that " the House of Commons urge the Government to support pharmacy as they seek to recover from the pandemic , ensure that they can continue to provide a high standard of care to patient within the community . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the issue of the underfunding of local pharmacy be threaten their ability to continue to serve community and area such as Bradford South ; note that pharmacy be vital as point of access for face - to - face healthcare advice and NHS support ; and far declare that access to pharmacy be vital for prevent excess pressure on GPs and hospital across the country . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to support pharmacy as they seek to recover from the pandemic , ensure that they can continue to provide a high standard of care to patient within the community . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002850 ] duty on Shopping : UK Entry Points Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) I rise to speak as the Member of Parliament for Crawley , a constituency that proudly include Gatwick airport within its boundary , and as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the future of aviation , for which I declare an interest . it be in those role that I have be determine to support the aviation , travel and tourism industry as they continue to recover from the covid - 19 pandemic , and I call on the Government to introduce duty - free shopping on arrival at airport and international rail and ferry terminal in Great Britain . reinstate duty - free shopping for passenger arrive from Europe and significantly increase inbound personal allowance upon Brexit prove popular , with a 45 % increase in sale of duty - free item by UK passenger shop overseas in our first year outside the European Union . however , british business and airport do not benefit from that . passenger can spend their increase allowance abroad only at their point of departure . the introduction of duty - free on arrival store at airport , ferry port and international railway station would repatriate those sale to Great Britain , crucially ensure that british business be the main beneficiary of the post - Brexit duty - free system . I will highlight three main benefit : the effect on the recovery of the travel industry , the impact on british competitiveness , and the importance of choice and the passenger experience . on the first benefit , travel recovery and regional connectivity , I do not need to repeat to the House the full impact of the covid - 19 pandemic on the aviation sector . as the sector continue to recover , we know that travel hub need non - aeronautical revenue such as retail and duty - free . indeed , as much as half of total airport income can come from those activity . all UK airport and international terminal will benefit from duty - free on arrival store . the creation of new retail area at UK airport would trigger significant capital expenditure for building work as infrastructure be adapt to take advantage of this new opportunity , result in further economic investment , include create construction job for the duration of those project . the increase in sale can be reinveste in new route , improve passenger number and attract more visitor , make London and regional hub across the UK more competitive with rival city such as Paris , Milan and Barcelona . I draw the House ' s attention to the example of Norway . be a non - EU nation , Norway introduce duty - free on arrival store in 2005 and there be an immediate impact on Aberdeen airport . sale to Norwegian - bind passenger fall by 40 % , with the average spend per passenger halving . the result growth on commercial revenue in Norway be invest in route development , which allow it to attract new airline by lower charge . Norway now have the low aeronautical charge per passenger in the whole of Europe . More passenger growth , more income and more investment — all without the need for the Government to fund support . the second benefit be the impact on global competitiveness . we know that more than 60 country have now implement duty - free on arrival , include most major travel hub in Asia , the middle east and Oceania , as well as fellow non - EU country . if the EU implement arrival duty - free store before we do , it would have a detrimental effect on british port of entry . European Travel Retail Confederation modelling predict arrival duty - free gross value add boost would be some € 300 million for Spain , € 190 million for Italy and € 580 million for France . such sale would have a devastating impact on UK port departure store . however , the UK Government could get ahead and legislate for arrival store first , future - proof the sector . I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s argument . my own local airport , Edinburgh airport , would benefit greatly from duty - free arrival — not least because , as in quite a few international airport , passenger have to go through the shopping area to get out of the airport . therefore , in some case there might not even be the need for capital investment . have experience this in Australia , it be very tempting when we arrive in a duty - free area to buy duty - free , so there would be a huge incentive for people come to this country to buy duty - free on arrival and benefit the local economy . the hon . Lady be exactly right ; I have experience similar when travel to Australia or close country such as Switzerland . the boost that that give to those local economy be quite significant . in this country , however , we need to act quickly . such a plan for arrival duty - free be under active consideration by the European Commission as part of the directorate - general for taxation and custom union ' s review into travel and tourism taxation . introduce arrival duty - free be the only way we would be able to level the field . the third benefit be great choice and passenger convenience . the modern passenger have come to expect the retail element of the travel experience . duty - free purchase on arrival will contribute to a more seamless travel experience . arrival shop be a separate market in competition with departure duty - free sale from airport abroad . the lack of arrival duty - free be place we at a competitive disadvantage . arrival duty - free be not only convenient , but popular too : polling commission in 2022 find 45 % of traveller regard carry duty - free item back to the UK on their flight as an inconvenience . polling conduct at several UK airport last year find that in many area , include my own Gatwick airport , two third of people would support the government introduce such store . nevertheless , I be aware that there remain concern among those on the Treasury Bench , and I be keen to address they . the first concern from his Majesty ' s Treasury , I suspect , be the revenue implication for the Exchequer . research from York Aviation predict that such store will result in additional sale of £ 100 million each year . an increase spend of between 20 % and 30 % per passenger be also anticipate . I therefore ask the Government to again look at the example of Norway , where , as of 2019 , duty - free on arrival sale have increase by 108 % since the policy ' s implementation , and be grow consistently at an average rate of more than 10 % each year . in this scenario , the initial loss of excise duty for HM Treasury be quickly offset by other form of taxation , in addition to new job . at Zurich airport , for example , the introduction of a single arrival duty - free store mean an additional 50 job . for the UK , the increase in income tax and corporation tax be estimate to be an additional £ 50 million each year for the Exchequer . even at the low level of predict sale , the impact on Government revenue be still likely to be only cost - neutral at worst . the policy would also increase sale on duty - pay category . the second concern that I suspect the Treasury have be about the impact on the domestic high street . although I appreciate that concern , we need to be clear that the only competition to arrival duty - free store be from overseas departure duty - free store . the introduction of the policy have the support of many brand that sell in the domestic market both on the high street and in travel retail channel . the size of the inbound duty - free market be less than 2 . 2 % of the domestic market for the same product . even if the policy be more successful than expect , any impact on the high street would be nominal . passenger at an airport be draw from a far wide catchment area than those in town centre store , for example . to look again at example from elsewhere , Switzerland and Norway have both have arrival store for over a decade , and neither have detect any impact on high street sale . the third concern that I suspect the Treasury may have be about implementation . let we be clear : in the model of arrival duty - free store propose by the industry , arrival store would be locate before custom clearance . that would avoid any additional staffing or resource pressure , and could provide a more robust level of control and oversight . Border Force and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs would have the opportunity to observe and audit purchase use exist mechanism , as they do now , and monitor inbound duty - free allowance limit . as a result of Brexit , only secondary legislation will be need for implementation , so the change would not be burdensome on the busy schedule and agenda of this House . let I reiterate my support for sustainable aviation fuel more broadly , and for the wide aim of the aviation sector reach jet zero — the commitment that UK domestic aviation will achieve net zero carbon emission by 2040 . will my hon . friend give way ? order . no . the hon . Gentleman have only just come into the Chamber . this be an Adjournment debate , and he should have be here from the beginning to intervene , as he know . I do not notice my hon . friend slink in behind I , but I be grateful for his moral support , Madam Deputy Speaker , even though by your order he be unable to vocalise it . on my support for sustainable aviation , I be pleased to host and address a new industry alliance , Hydrogen in Aviation , just last night here in Parliament . the alliance be design to help the UK lead innovation in that field . that would , along with duty - free on arrival , well support our sector . aviation and our port be vital for UK trade and employment . we can do this in a clean , smart way , and duty - free arrival can play an important part for the sector . in closing , it be clear that the introduction of arrival duty - free store would support economic growth and provide a timely boost to the recovery of aviation , travel and tourism from the pandemic . this plan would be fund by industry and would be at bad cost - neutral for the Exchequer . it be a low - risk policy that have already prove successful in some 65 country around the world . there would likely be no impact on domestic high street sale , due to limited market overlap and differ customer behaviour in duty - free store . by introduce duty - free store on arrival , the Government can reaffirm their commitment to support the aviation , travel and tourism sector , and the economic prosperity that they afford by provide employment to so many of my constituent , and to community across the entire country . the policy be also popular with the electorate , so I hope that the Government will act swiftly to achieve this additional Brexit freedom . first , I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) on secure tonight ' s important debate . he bring so much experience and expertise on this issue to the Chamber , not just through his chairmanship of the APPG for the future of aviation , but as the Member of Parliament for Gatwick . I thank he very much for that . I be conscious that people outside the Chamber may be watch the debate , so let I say that what we be discuss be duty on the sale of alcohol and tobacco , which would ordinarily attract UK excise duty and vat . my hon . friend advocate for the removal of that duty and vat for passenger who have enter Great Britain from outside the UK before they have reach custom - control entry point . I will give some background on the Government ' s duty - free policy , because it be an important part of the overall picture . in January 2021 , the Government extend duty - free sale to EU - bind passenger for the first time in over 20 year , which be a significant boost to airport and international rail terminal in Great Britain . that change mean that passenger travel from the UK to the EU be able to purchase duty - free good once they have pass security control at port , airport and train station on international route . they also become able to purchase duty - free good onboard international transport route from Great Britain . as my hon . Friend say , we understand that customer find it convenient to buy their product during the flight , or to order they in advance and pick they up at the end . we be pleased that the change in policy have be a boost for UK travel hub ; indeed , I watch with close interest to ensure that the tax saving bring about by this Conservative Government be pass on to consumer , because that be important . I hope that retailer watch the debate will note the Minister ' s interest in their do the right thing and ensure that those saving be pass on . when we make those change in 2021 , we say that we be not consider a similar policy for arrival , for several reason . first , as my hon . friend have identify , there be serious concern about the impact on shop in the UK , whether on the high street or close to an airport . duty - free on departure encourage purchase in the UK that might otherwise be make abroad . that case be less clearcut with regard to allow customer to buy good duty - free on arrival ; that could create an unfair playing field for the domestic duty - pay retailer work either in the confine of the airport or station or beyond they . the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) mention her local airport of Edinburgh . I be think of arrival at Heathrow , where once a passenger have go through custom , they be in the arrival hall , and there be shop there sell product , as one would expect . I must confess that I have never try to buy cigarette or alcohol from those shop , so I know not what price they would charge , but importantly , because they be on the arrival side of the barrier , they have to charge duty and vat on product . there might be only a few foot between those retailer sell product duty - free and other sell the very same product beyond the barrier , on the arrival side . secondly , we would have to consider the need for adequate infrastructure and resource for the publicly fund Border Force , so that it could combat fraud , ensure compliance with requirement and enforce any charge at all entry point . in a moment , I will go into some of the duty that Border Force have at airport , but we must remember the enormous responsibility on those officer at travel hub , and the range of offence and activity that they have to be alert to . as a former Home Office Minister , I would have to be very careful to understand how give those officer extra responsibility regard the sale of duty - free alcohol and tobacco would be of wide benefit to the british public . business would also need to put support infrastructure in place , which would be costly to they . finally , duty would of course be lose from those sale . we have consider very carefully the York Aviation report . my official have brief I on it , and we appreciate the effort that have go into it , but we consider that the report fall into the error of overstate the size of any additional economic activity that would result from the proposal . we remain to be convince that this change to vat and duty policy would lead to a rise in sale of these product that would support the creation of many new job across the economy . would Treasury Ministers be willing to meet industry representative to discuss the concern that the Minister be express about the impact of the policy change ? through such dialogue , we could probably find a solution that would alleviate fear across the board . I be very happy to meet my hon . friend and representative , but I must temper expectation . for a change to be make of this nature , the economic case for the entire UK economy would have to be very strongly make . he will appreciate that I receive many well intentione suggestion on remove vat — and other form of tax , but particularly vat — from product . indeed , I think we be up to £ 50 billion - worth of suggestion since we regain our freedom on leave the EU . we have to be very clear as to the economic benefit , but I be always very happy to meet my hon . friend . the report also deal with the issue of job . again , we remain to be convince that , if job be to be create , they would be additional to the job already in place in the high street that involve sell alcohol and tobacco with duty and VAT charge , as they be oblige to be charge on the UK high street . I be afraid that we do not accept the report ' s conclusion . I will give my hon . friend a little bit more detail on the broad objective behind duty - free on arrival . first , we be very conscious that the duty we charge on alcohol and tobacco serve not just an economic purpose , but the critical public health objective of try to persuade people to stop smoking , or to smoke far less , and to have a healthy relationship with alcohol . indeed , my hon . friend will know of the very sensible change make to the alcohol duty regime in the Finance Act 2023 to enable product with a high strength of alcohol to be treat differently from product with a low alcohol content . that be do because , as I think we all acknowledge , reflect the strength of alcohol in the duty price be a way , we hope , of help people to make decision about their health . our current duty - free - on - departure policy strike a balance between those objective and support international travel , but we would have to consider carefully whether duty - free on arrival would maintain that balance . secondly , we ask whether displacement would occur , and whether any loss would outweigh any indirect benefit of increase economic activity . outbound duty - free for EU passenger alone be estimate to cost around £ 200 million per year , primarily through displacement of duty - pay high street sale to duty - free store . the Chancellor have be clear that it be vital that we continue to act responsibly with the public finance , so the risk of erode tax revenue be not one we will take lightly . finally , there be also a compliance angle . the Government would have to put measure in place to mitigate the risk of increase illicit activity , which would require the diversion of Border Force staff from other crucial area . that include the priority that we rightly set for they , include matter such as illegal immigration , drug smuggling , gun smuggling , terrorism , and other serious offence . that be why we must be very careful before contemplate add to Border Force ' s responsibility , and its vital work of protect the nation , day in , day out , and ensure that the law be obey by those who travel overseas or into our country . of course we keep this policy under review . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss it far , but we would need strong evidence to assure we that high - street duty - pay business would not be disadvantage by a policy of duty - free on arrival before we even consider any such change . to reassure my hon . friend , I ask my official to pick up on the point that he raise about the EU contemplating change to the system , and as far as we know , we do not believe that the EU be consider that . of course , we will ensure that that information be up to date . I be tell that as recently as 2021 , the EU Parliament say that it be not consider that , but I appreciate that international politic change . I reiterate the support that the Government have commit to the aviation industry — indeed , often at the behest of my hon . friend during the pandemic . in May last year , we publish " Flightpath to the future " , a strategic framework for the sector to build back well . through it , we aim to make UK aviation cleaner , green and more competitive than ever before . the framework explore key issue , include workforce and skill , connectivity , global impact , innovation and decarbonisation . I note with interest those part of my hon . friend ' s speech concern different type of fuel for the airline industry . that be the sort of work that we wish to help the aviation industry with and , more particularly , to develop in the UK as far as possible . in conclusion , I thank my hon . friend for his speech . I reiterate that we have consider this matter carefully , but we must prioritise our responsibility for the public finance . that be why we do not feel able at this point to agree to the suggestion , but I be happy to keep the issue under review , and to meet he to discuss it far . question put and agree to . House adjourn .