the Budget take the first step in this Government ' s plan to drive up opportunity and drive down poverty in every corner of the country : it include an additional £ 214 million for our plan to get Britain work , a new fair repayment rate in universal credit to help over 1 million of the poor household , and the big ever package to reduce fraud and error in the system , ensure that every pound of taxpayer ' money be wisely spend . there be much , much more to do , but in the Department for Work and Pensions , change have begin . it be a great honour to be call to make my first contribution in this place as the Member of Parliament for the new constituency of Stirling and Strathallan . my constituency be the geographic heart of Scotland , and what a beautiful part of the world I be lucky enough to represent ! at just under 2 , 500 sq km , it be predominantly a rural constituency — from its farming village , include Drymen , Buchlyvie , Callander and Killin , to its former coalmine village of Bannockburn , Fallin , Plean and Cowie ; from the bonnie bank of Loch Lomond to the mountain of the Trossachs and the valley carve by the river Forth , Endrick , Teith and Allan . it have the city of Stirling , with its majestic castle defend a royal burgh that become a royal city in 2002 , and the city of Dunblane , with its magnificent medieval cathedral . politically , I follow in the footstep of a daunting list of constituency representation that include one Prime Minister , the father of a Prime Minister , two secretary of State for Scotland , a Secretary of State for War , a Father of the House of Commons and a Leader of the House of Lords . in my lifetime , we have have Harry Ewing , the godfather of devolution ; Michael Forsyth , who bring the Stone of Destiny back to Scotland ; and Dame Anne McGuire , who as Minister for disabled people sign the first human right charter of the 21st century on behalf of the United Kingdom at the United Nations . Steven Paterson and Stephen Kerr bring we to my predecessor , Alyn Smith . Alyn represent Stirling in the previous Parliament , but prior to that , he represent Scotland with distinction as a Member of the European Parliament . he care deeply for Scotland and have public service at his heart . I wish he well for the future and thank he for his service . the coalfield of central Scotland transform the landscape of the southern end of my constituency over the past 150 year . my great - grandfather , William Kane , be a miner , and while work at the coalface in 1914 , a large rock dislodge from the ceiling and crush he . William die from his injury . his son , my grandfather Frank , be 12 year old , and have to leave school to earn money — not to take the family out of poverty , but to keep they alive . everything that trouble I about that story have be improve by the Labour party and the trade union movement , with their relentless focus on improve workplace condition and worker ’ right over the past 100 year . " we feel that something should be do . we have the idea that one of the function of the Government of this country be to see to it that there should be equality , equity , and fairplay between the party , that the weak should be protect from any outrage by the strong … it be the business of the Government to see to it that there should be equity and fairplay between all condition of people in the State . " — [ Official Report , 13 December 1922 ; Vol . 159 , c . 3011 . ] those be not my word , but those of my grandfather Frank ' s uncle , Hugh Murnin , who be also a miner . they be speak by Hugh in this place , in his maiden speech , after he become the MP for Stirling in 1922 . read all of Mr Murnin ' s speech , I be strike by how much have change from his description of work , and how much have stay the same . there be still much to do to delivery dignity and fair play , which be why I be proud that this Government be raise the national living wage and , through the Employment Rights Bill , will update the UK ' s outdated employment law and turn the page on an economy blight by insecurity , poor productivity and low pay . I should say that 12 - year - old Frank , my grandfather , become a grocer ' s apprentice . he develop an entrepreneurial spark that take off when the BBC begin broadcast in Scotland in the 1920 . he open Bannockburn ' s Radio Music Store to supply radio set and constantly recharge the large lead - acid battery on which they depend . that business prosper under my parent , Bill and Diane , and my brother Michael run the business today — shop local when you can . along with coal , the river and loch of my constituency bring with they nutrient that be vital for farming . the flat floodplain of the Forth be 16 mile long and 4 mile wide , and be fill with farm that today produce everything from beef to dairy and from sheep to pumpkin . for many year , the River Forth be Europe ' s premier oyster fishery . over 30 million oyster be harvest each year in the early 19th century , but overfishe cause a collapse and the Forth oyster be declare extinct in 1957 . issue such as overfishing and sustainability be study in great depth at the University of Stirling ' s international centre for aquaculture , the large of its kind in the world . it be lead the way in research to tackle the global problem of food security , hunger and sustainability through the world ' s river and sea . it be also a researcher from the institute of aquaculture who discover in 2014 that the Forth oyster be still alive , with two of they grow in the river . when the railway arrive in my constituency in 1848 , it bring with it an entrepreneurial spirit that see Scotland ' s first oil refinery open in Riverside in Stirling . until the Forth bridge open in 1890 , the bridge at Stirling carry most of Scotland ' s good to and from the highland . Scotland ' s first heavy - than - air flight take place in Stirling when the barnwell brother build and fly an aircraft in the shadow of Stirling castle . that entrepreneurial spirit live on in the like of Highland Spring , a fantastic family business in Blackford that neighbour Gleneagles , one of the world ' s premier hotel and golf course . in Stirling , a £ 20 million investment have recently be announce to create a film and tv studio that will be the large in Scotland . Stirling be the first gigabit internet city in the United Kingdom , and one of the first in the world to digitally map its city to create an augmented reality smartphone experience . we be a grow base for life science , manufacturing and , of course , tourism . my constituency offer some of the good outdoor activity in the country , from salmon fishing to hillwalking , with lot of family - friendly activity along the way . if history and heritage be your thing , we have castle , monument , battleground and the only work church other than Westminster Abbey to have host a coronation . for those who like sport , Stirling be showcase to the world in 2023 with the time trial of the Union Cycliste Internationale ' s cycle world championship . Scotland ' s national swimming academy be at Stirling University and have produce olympic medallist include Duncan Scott and Robbie Renwick . the UK ' s national curling academy be also in Stirling , and I can not mention sport without reference Judy , Jamie and Andy Murray , whose success , resilience and mindset have forever link tennis with the city of Dunblane . Stirling and Strathallan be not in the heart of Scotland : it be the heart of Scotland . much of the modern sense of scottish cultural identity originate in my constituency , from the battle of Wallace and Bruce at Stirling bridge and Bannockburn over 700 year ago to the reinvention of tartan at the mill of William Wilson — also in Bannockburn — in the 1800 . a much more subtle sense of my constituency be find here in this place and in the UK identity , because it be a Stirling resident , a weel - kent local face call King James VI , who unite the kingdom of England and Scotland in 1603 . I have walk about this place wonder which of our tradition have their origin in the tradition of the court of King James at Stirling castle . stirling be celebrate its 900th anniversary this year — 900 year since King David grant a small settlement on the River Forth burgh status . Stirling and Strathallan have go on to give much to Scotland , the United Kingdom and the world over the past 900 year , and there be much more to come . Stirling and Strathallan be proud of its past and ambitious for its future , and I be hugely honour and privileged to represent my home here in this place .