my constituent and resident of Burgess Hill , able seaman George Chandler , be due to lead the blind veteran at the remembrance parade on Remembrance Sunday the weekend after next . sadly , George die early this month . he be 99 year old . I never have the privilege of meet George , but I have be able to speak to his son Paul , who give I a wonderful insight into his father . he be full of character and , in Paul ' s word , an old rogue . George be bear to a working - class family off the Old Kent Road . when war be declare , age 14 George stay in London — he be not evacuate — and experience the Blitz in all its horror . his father , Will , have be a soldier at the Somme , and George be determined that he would not be what he call one of the " poor bloody infantry " . he be not go to go into the Army . when he be still 17 , he pester and pester the recruiter at the naval office to sign he up . eventually , they take he on , even though he have not yet reach his 18th birthday . George see active service in the channel as a gunner on a boat , with close combat with the Germans occur very frequently . on D - day , he provide cover for american troop land on Omaha beach , watch the slaughter before his eye . he return from the D - day landing to Newhaven in East Sussex , and see row and row of empty coffin wait for the dead . this year , George be one of a handful of remain veteran who take part in the 80th anniversary commemoration . he go to no . 10 Downing Street , HMS Belfast and the trooping of the colour . this cause George ' s family a certain amount of consternation , for George be not a conservative . his family be terribly worried about what George might say when he meet Government Ministers . they have a plan that if George let rip , they would whisk he away in his wheelchair before any embarrassment could be cause . I be pleased to say to Conservative Members that he meet Gillian Keegan , Grant Shapps and the former Prime Minister ' s wife , and no event occur . I ask Paul what George ' s message to the House would be , and the answer — what Paul think his dad would have say — be characteristically robust . he be passionate about remember his shipmate , those who give their tomorrow for our today . he stay in contact throughout his life with the daughter —