Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — save what step she plan to take to encourage save . the Government be commit to support people to save and invest , and we want to build a well investment culture . currently , 85 % of people with saving income do not pay tax on it . as we announce at the Budget from next month , we will expand the help to save scheme to all universal credit claimant in work . the nation ' s favourite way to save be through premium bond . do the Minister think that they be good for the country and a valuable way of encourage save ? for everyone who have they , they be quite exciting every month . I think that premium bond do provide excitement , not least in my parent ' household , where they be very popular . they be already well promote and popular , and we have see annual investment in premium bond increase by more than 50 % since March 2019 . the fund raise through they go towards support vital public service . I warmly welcome the Government ' s commitment to extend the help to save scheme , which have be run for seven year . Martin Lewis describe it as " a very clever scheme and one that will work for many people . " may I urge the Minister to look at what need to be do to raise awareness of it , because the actual uptake be very low , give that the Government have be give £ 1 , 200 over four year ? it be critical that the right investment in promote it happen , because it be such a brilliant scheme . I could not agree with one of my predecessor more . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct . it be a great scheme and now that we be expand it , we will take that opportunity to promote it well . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . we all know how important it be to encourage saving , because so many people be a paycheque away from poverty , but there have be a lot of discussion about lazy capital in cash - only isa , for example , and other saving account . I know there be a drive by Government to see great investment . would the Minister like to expand on the Government ' s thought on that ? in particular , can she make any comment about the security of the cash ISA ? cash saving provide a vital source of saving for a rainy day , and we recognise that . equally , we want to build a well investment culture in our society , so that it be not just the 8 % of people who can afford financial advice who can have the opportunity of well reward by invest in british company and other in our economy . on that point , it have be widely report that the Chancellor be plan to slash the amount of cash that saver can save in isa from £ 20 , 000 to £ 4 , 000 a year . will the Chancellor rule out this punitive measure , which will see saving drop and push even more people into income tax ? we be committed to promote saving and investment , as I say in an early answer . one measure we be look at be the Financial Conduct Authority ' s review of the advice guidance boundary . as I say in a previous answer , I do not want it just to be the 8 % of people who can afford financial advice who reap the reward of invest in our economy . we keep all taxis under review . I call the shadow Minister . the City of London have be a leader of innovation in the world of finance and saving for a few hundred year now , and it have be successful because it have always seize opportunity and innovation when present . in that spirit , we be pleased that the Chancellor in her Mansion House speech embrace the concept of security tokenisation , but we now find that the catalyst for this innovation in the UK — a pilot for the digital gilt instrument know as DIGIT — have find itself in a two - year black hole . innovation be not something that can hang around for two year , so will the Minister give assurance that she will do everything she can to deliver DIGIT as soon as possible ? that sound like a criticism of the previous Government . I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be commit to innovation and to DIGIT . economic growth : East midland what step she have take to help increase economic growth in the east midland . what step she have take to help increase economic growth in the east of England . economic growth be the no . 1 mission of this Government . put more money in people ' s pocket and ensure growth be feel in all region of the UK be a core part of our mission . the Government have a clear focus on invest in the infrastructure need to support city and region to grow and thrive . in January , the Government announce a partnership between East Midlands airport and Prologis to build a new advanced manufacturing and logistic park , unlock up to £ 1 billion of private investment and 2 , 000 job at the airport site . the town of Staveley in my constituency of North East Derbyshire host one of the three site for the east midland investment zone , which be a fantastic opportunity for we . the Chesterfield - Staveley regeneration route be , however , vital to make the most of the site and it have be long campaign for by my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) . it be a huge priority for my constituent . will the Treasury work with we and our excellent Mayor of the East Midlands , Claire Ward , to bring this hugely beneficial project to fruition ? I thank my hon . friend for the work that she do alongside my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield in campaign for development that will boost growth in both North East Derbyshire and Chesterfield . the Department for Transport be consider the scheme for the Chesterfield Staveley regeneration route , and I will suggest to the Roads Minister that he meet the relevant member as well as the Mayor of the East Midlands , Claire Ward . the Government ' s decision to increase defence spending be not only an ironclad commitment to national security in the face of generational challenge but an investment in british industry , able to unlock new job and opportunity across the country . industry in the east of England have a significant defence sector , which receive £ 1 . 5 billion of Government investment last year . can the Chancellor explain how the additional defence funding have the potential to benefit my constituent in Thurrock as well as those in the wide region ? as my hon . Friend say , defence have an important role to play in the growth mission as well as keep our country safe and secure , and on Friday the Defence Secretary and I host a roundtable at RAF Waddington in Lincoln to announce a new defence innovation hub to harness that potential . defence have a strong presence in many of our constituency — indeed , accord to the most recent datum , Ministry of Defence spending in the east of England account for £ 1 . 5 billion — and down the road from my hon . friend ' s constituency be the historic MOD Shoeburyness range , which , along with other site , be operate by the MOD and QinetiQ as part of a long - term partnership worth more than £ 5 billion . in the year to come , there will be more investment in defence from both the public and the private sector . as part of their pursuit of the ever - elusive goal of economic growth , the Government have rebrande the UK Infrastructure Bank as the National Wealth Fund . even the Office for Budget Responsibility have cast doubt on the effectiveness of that as a driver of economic growth . can the Chancellor tell the House how much the rebrand have cost ? the National Wealth Fund be do important work in enable we to leverage in private sector investment . the most recent of those investment include mine in Cornwall and energy charging point in our road . at the end of last week , I announce that the fund would play a more important role in funding and support investment in the defence sector , which will become even more important in the year ahead . I recently visit a business in Kirkby - in - Ashfield in the east midland — funnily enough , I do not see the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) there — where I be tell that the increase in national insurance contribution would cost the business £ 240 a year , which will prevent it from recruit people and give its employee a pay rise next year . do the Chancellor agree that it be time to reverse this ridiculous decision and help to drive growth in the east midland ? in the Budget in October I have to fill the £ 22 billion black hole leave by the previous Government , but there be huge opportunity to grow the economy in the east midland . we recently agree the £ 9 billion unity deal with Rolls - Royce to support the Royal Navy submarine fleet , which will provide a major boost for economic growth in the east midland , create and maintain 5 , 000 long - term job . that be good for our country ' s security , and good for the people of the east midland . nic Increase : impact on Economic Growth what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the plan increase in employer national insurance contribution on economic growth . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the plan increase in employer national insurance contribution on economic growth . the Government have take difficult decision to repair the public finance , fund public service and restore economic stability . the Office for Budget Responsibility predict that the employer national insurance contribution change " will reduce the level of potential output by 0 . 1 per cent at the forecast horizon " . it also predict that growth will pick up next year and that living standard will rise fast during this Parliament than during the last , and in the long term it expect the autumn Budget policy , if sustain , to increase the size of the economy permanently . my constituent Alison run Stepping Stones nursery school , which have be operate in my constituency for 30 year , offer wraparound care to busy family . the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution alone will cost it £ 16 , 000 a year and it be still struggle with an increase in utility cost , while other nursery in the area be also struggle and , indeed , closing . headmaster , a hairdresser in Walton , be struggle with £ 15 , 000 of extra cost , owe primarily to this tax rise . can the Minister explain to business in Esher and Walton how the Government ' s national insurance policy will deliver growth or high living standard , give that it seem to be do neither ? the Government ' s decision to increase employer national insurance contribution be one of the tough decision that we take at the Budget , but it be necessary to restore stability to the public finance . it be only on the basis of have stable public finance and fiscal responsibility that we can boost the investment and growth that will make people across Britain well off . as the poor growth figure show , the Chancellor ' s job tax be really hurt business , not least in our hospitality sector . in my constituency , pub such as the Eel Pie and the King ' s Head , as well as the family - run restaurant Shambles , be really struggle with soar cost and put off hire people . if the Chancellor will not reverse her job tax , will she at the very least consider extend the current 75 % business rate relief for hospitality until the new system that she have announce be in place ? the hon . Member speak about business rate relief . we have to remember that the business rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure be due to end entirely in April 2025 under the plan we inherit from the conservative party . despite the tough of contexts , we decide to extend the 40 % relief for another year before the permanently low rate for retail , hospitality and leisure come in from April 2026 . do the Minister agree that planning reform be essential for high growth and low taxis ? be he , like I , concern that the anti - growth opposition we see before we in this House will vote against the forthcoming planning and infrastructure Bill , which be possibly the most significant piece of pro - growth legislation that this Parliament will see in decade ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the centrality of plan reform to get the economy grow . indeed , one of the first action that the Chancellor announce on take office be to scrap the ban on onshore wind turbine in the planning system , which have be hold back our clean energy transition . I hope that some Opposition Members might take the opportunity during today ' s question to confirm that they will support our reform to the planning system , because they be indeed vital to growth in this country . do the Minister agree that it be in the interest of business to see waiting list in the NHS reduce , road repair and the public finance fix ? do he agree that if opposition party do not agree with Labour ' s plan , they should set out how they would pay for such improvement ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that stability in the public finance be crucial to ensure that we boost investment and growth across the country . he be also right to point out that have public service back on their foot , after year of decline under the conservative party in government , be essential not only to make people in this country healthy , more able to get around and well off , but to get our economy grow , because it be on that basis that business will invest . I call the shadow Minister . even before Labour ' s job tax come into force , we can see the damage that it be do . three quarter of a million job in hospitality will be subject to employer national insurance for the first time , cost £ 1 billion . give that major hospitality and retail business be warn that lower - pay and part - time worker will suffer most , will the Chancellor think again ? can the Minister at least commit that there will be no further increase during this Parliament ? the business to which the hon . Gentleman refer , like business in all sector of the economy , benefit from the stability that this Government have bring to the economy . he want to talk about unemployment and the rate of job . we recognise that make change to employer national insurance contribution be a tough decision that will have consequence , but the unemployment rate will fall to 4 . 1 % next year and remain low until 2029 . when take together , the Budget measure mean that the employment level in this country will increase from 33 . 1 million in 2024 to 34 . 3 million in 2029 . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . health and wealth be two side of the same coin , and we will not get economic growth without a healthy population . but as a result of the national insurance contribution change , the Care Provider Alliance report that 73 % of social care provider will have to refuse new care package from local authority or the NHS , and that 57 % will have to hand back exist contract . what assurance can the Government provide to the huge number of people who be very scared that they will have to go without care and see their life deteriorate ? the hon . Lady make an important point , but it be also important to point out that tough decision on taxation must be make to fund the very service she be keen to support . on her specific point about these pressure , we announce at the provisional local government settlement a furth £ 200 million for adult and child ' s social care to support authority in deliver key service . this will be allocate through the social care grant , which will bring the total increase in this grant in 2025 - 26 to £ 880 million , mean that up to £ 3 . 7 billion of additional funding will be provide to social care authority in 2025 - 26 . minister will be aware of analysis from the Nuffield Trust show that that additional grant be be dwarf by the additional cost that the Government be introduce . on the great british high street , we know that our high street be beautiful feature of our city , market town and village , but hospitality , retail , beauty and other service sector be say that the combination of national insurance and other change will be a real hammer blow . if high street shop start to close , that be bad for economic growth and bad for confidence . what mechanism will Ministers put in place to monitor the impact of the national insurance contribution change on the vibrancy and resilience of our high street ? all measure in the Budget be of course analyse by the Treasury and the Office for Budget Responsibility ahead of their announcement , and we keep in constant contact with industry representative to see how policy be work in practice . I draw her attention to my early remark to her hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) about our business rate reform , which be a vital ask from the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . after year of chop and change from the conservative party — change relief from one year to the next , and offer no stability whatever to people in that sector — we be introduce permanently low rate for the retail , hospitality and leisure sector from April 2026 , and avoid the complete end of relief that the conservative party leave in the in - tray when we arrive in office . economic growth : New Transport Infrastructure what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to increase economic growth through new transport infrastructure . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to increase economic growth through new transport infrastructure . the growth mission be the central mission of this Government , and transport be an important enabler of that growth . the spending review deliver a £ 1 . 1 billion cash increase to the transport budget in 2025 - 26 compare with 2024 - 25 , represent 1 . 5 % real - term growth with record spending . further announcement will be make in the spending review . in my constituency , Stevenage borough council be work to secure job and opportunity , with town centre regeneration under way and over 590 council home deliver , but outdated infrastructure be hold back growth . business have be clear with I that upgrade stevenage station gateway would unlock growth , with the prospect of 15 , 000 job be deliver and a £ 1 . 5 billion benefit to the economy each year . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss how we can make the most of this opportunity to unlock economic growth through more infrastructure investment ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that invest in infrastructure will enable growth in city , town and village across the whole of our United Kingdom . we will set out further detail alongside the spending review in our 10 - year infrastructure strategy in June . no doubt Stevenage , be site between London and the Oxford - Cambridge corridor , will benefit enormously from announcement already make , but decision on specific scheme will be take by the Department for Transport follow the spending review . the midland rail hub project would represent major investment in rail infrastructure across the west midland . crucially , it would mean more frequent train on the cross - city line , which serve Lichfield . before the pandemic , that be the busy commuter line in the country outside London . what assurance can minister give I and my constituent that more train will be come on this line , and come soon ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a strong champion for his constituency , for raise this rail project . in relation to such project , the case that he have make will be an important part of our consideration in the month ahead as part of the spending review . I will arrange for he to meet the appropriate Transport Minister as we make those consideration . the great university city of York and Hull be unusual in that they do not have a direct rail line between they . the whole region — Labour mp , liberal Democrat councillor , Conservatives — be unite in believe that reopen the Beverley to York line , so that the two great minster of Hull and York can be reconnecte , would bring economic growth and a bright future for the area . will the Minister agree to meet I and colleague to discuss this project and how it could help unlock the growth that we all seek across the House ? I be sorry to hear that the right hon . Gentleman fail to persuade his party , when in government for 14 year , to open that line . I can reassure he that this Government take rail infrastructure seriously , and I will happily consider any detail that he wish to write to I about . economic growth through infrastructure development could be help in Scotland and Northern Ireland with more money go to Cairnryan port and the road infrastructure to it . ally to that , any help that the Department , the Minister and the Chancellor could give in resolve EU - relate trading issue would considerably help Northern Ireland business as well as scottish business . the hon . Member will know that the Government have enter negotiation with our counterpart in the European Commission to improve trade between the UK and the European Union . I have a great meeting to discuss these issue last week in Cardiff with Finance Ministers from the Northern Ireland Executive as well as from Scotland and Wales , and note that we have give a record - break increase in funding to the devolved government , so that they can get on with such project , work in partnership with we where we still have responsibility . regional Growth : England what step she have take to increase regional growth in England . what fiscal reform she have make to help increase economic growth in Cumbria . at autumn Budget 2024 , we set out the first major step in our approach to regional growth through devolution , investment and reform . the January growth speech regional investment package build on that . we have make clear the Government ' s focus on attract inward investment across the country and to invest in infrastructure need to support city and region to grow . we have make it clear that the importance of invest in major city region across the UK will play an important part in that endeavour . for example , if we improve the productivity gap in Manchester , Birmingham and Leeds , we estimate we can deliver an extra £ 33 billion in economic output . I call Graham Stringer . [ interruption . ] sorry , Mr Speaker . I be nearly as shock when you call I as I be when listen to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on Radio 4 talk about economic growth . she say there have not be a new runway build in this country since 1945 . Manchester airport would be very surprised to hear that , because its new runway have be operate for nearly 25 year . I be shock by that but not really surprised , because I think many official in the Treasury who advise her show a startling ignorance of the english region , and that lead to a certain prejudice in the formula they use to calculate whether a scheme should go ahead . can the Minister and the rest of the Treasury team provide coach to send Treasury official around the english region to talk to people who know about growth ? secondly , will he look at the formula that decide where economic growth happen , which be bias against the region ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; I will do my good to answer they . I can confirm that Treasury official routinely engage with local and regional official across the country , include frequently in Manchester with Mayor Burnham and his team . I would point my hon . friend gently to some of the announcement make by the Chancellor , include support for the Old Trafford development in Manchester . I congratulate the operator of Manchester airport on run a successful business , which we will continue to support in the normal way . at the autumn Budget , the Government announce a range of support measure for small business , include vital support for the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . will the Minister confirm the measure be take to support the independent and important craft brewing and distillery sector in Cumbria ? as the House have already hear today from my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , we have make permanent decision to give business in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector certainty that their discount will apply to business rate relief for the long term , not just on a one - year rolling temporary basis , as be the case for year under the previous Government . I understand from my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Michelle Scrogham ) that the like of shed one gin , Wolftown and Kin vodka in Cumbria will benefit enormously from the Government ' s policy . I look forward to visit those establishment with she in due course . the Golden Valley development in Cheltenham will bring significant growth to the west . it will also back our national security by support GCHQ . now that the Chancellor have approve an extra 0 . 1 % of defence spending for intelligence and cyber , will she work with colleague in the Ministry of Defence , the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Cabinet Office to agree more funding for this nationally significant development ? if the defence point be not good enough , we could point out that the development will unlock a lot of nice new house too . I visit Airbus in Newport last week to look at some of the advanced technology we have in this space . I be tell about the important connection between Newport and the hon . Gentleman ' s region , with GCHQ and the industrial impact that it have on the supply chain in the UK . the increase spending on defence announce by the Prime Minister will have a significant , positive impact for business such as those and for his region . we look forward to set out further detail of that spending in the spending review . the Marches region , of which North Shropshire be a significant part , be hold back by the A483 road run between Llanymynech and Oswestry , which be very dangerous . there be frequent crash and hold - up on it , which both hinder local growth and , obviously , be a danger to life for people live in the area . will the Minister work with his colleague in the Department for Transport to ensure that if we can not get a bypass , we at least get vital improvement on that road ? I can commit to work with DFT colleague on project such as that and other around the country as we make decision in the upcoming spending review . I would make an observation that it be not just about the decision on spending ; there have be problem in the past where decision have be make and u - turn , and then make and u - turn again . that be difficult for the supply chain and difficult for investor and local community . in our multi - year capital budget and our 10 - year infrastructure strategy , which be come in the month ahead , we will give stability to the UK economy so that we can get on and deliver project such as the one the hon . Lady mention . I call the shadow Minister . the Chancellor have laud the new National Wealth Fund as a key part of the Government ' s regional growth ambition . the trouble be , it be not actually new ; it be just the UK Infrastructure Bank with a new colour scheme and £ 7 billion it do not need . the Prime Minister announce at a recent Labour party political conference that he will allocate £ 200 million from the National Wealth Fund for Grangemouth , but it be suppose to be operationally independent . will the Minister therefore confirm that that be still the case and that the full independent investment process be follow ? will he also confirm that the unexpected resignation of the National Wealth Fund CEO just day before that announcement be not connect ? I find it odd that member on the conservative Benches do not welcome an additional £ 7 billion of investment into our economy ; it be rather a testament to their poor performance on investment over many year in government . to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s specific question , I can confirm that each of the business case for Grangemouth will have to go through the normal process for sign off , and that John Flint leave the National Wealth Fund be not in any way connect to the decision take by this Government . we look forward to appoint his successor in due course . investment : Newcastle upon Tyne East and wallsend what step she be take to encourage investment in Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend constituency . this be an important question when , shockingly , household income in the north - east hardly grow over the long 14 year of the previous Conservative Government . we need to raise public and private investment , which be why we be work with the north - east combine authority on its local growth plan . the Office for Investment be work particularly closely with the north - east , alongside Liverpool , on develop local growth opportunity . with the town ' s access to the world ' s big offshore wind farm , a cluster of advanced manufacturing firm and an expand energy skill academy , more of Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ' s potential be yet to be tap . what discussion be the Minister have with the Energy Secretary to ensure that the investment be there and that green supply chain be anchor in place such as Tyneside ? I have spend far too much of my life talk to the now Energy Secretary , but my hon . friend be right to highlight the potential of green energy supply chain in her constituency and across the north - east . this be a Government commit to secure economic gain alongside energy security from the energy transition — in stark contrast to the previous Government , who think the net zero transition be something on which to create dividing line , not job . affordable Housing : supply what step she have take with Cabinet colleague to increase the supply of affordable housing . at Budget , the Government announce major step towards deliver a once - in - a - generation increase in social housing , include a £ 500 million boost to the affordable home programme , increase annual spend to £ 3 . 1 billion — the big annual budget for affordable housing in more than a decade . early this month , the Government also announce an additional £ 350 million to fund affordable home . that be the difference a Labour Government can make to people across the country wait desperately for secure housing . further investment decision will be set out at phase 2 of the spending review . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to the Lancaster Guardian for its recent investigative report into the reality for many family live in temporary accommodation in the Lancaster district ? that be pair with a frustration I hear from local house building developer over delay in the planning process in the district . what more do the Minister think can happen in Lancaster to ensure that family in the district actually have secure housing ? my hon . friend know that we be do everything possible in this place to streamline and improve planning legislation and planning process . we be provide clear signal to everybody across the country that we need to build and build rapidly , not least to meet our housing target . local council play an important role in this process , as they make decision on local development . I understand that in Lancaster city council she have have some struggle with member of the Green party , who be become blocker as oppose to builder . I say to they and to people across the country that they need to get behind the build agenda , because that be what the british people vote for . to what extent be the Chancellor concerned about multiple potential breach by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs of its charter since it issue Spotlight 63 , which impact rental housing supply and be cause real concern among my constituent — both landlord and tenant ? will the Minister meet I urgently to discuss this matter ? I be afraid that I have no idea what the answer be , but if the right hon . Gentleman write to I , I shall make sure that he get an answer . public Spending : value for Money what step she be take to help ensure value for money in public spending . the Government be commit to spend taxpayer ' money efficiently . at the autumn Budget , we launch the Office for Value for money to realise benefit from every pound of public spending . through phase 1 of the spending review , Departments be set a 2 % productivity , efficiency and saving target to ensure that every pound of taxpayer ' money be well spend . the next phase of the spending review have go far . I have ask each Department to conduct a line - by - line review of exist day - to - day budget to identify where spending be no long align with this Government ' s priority or be poor value for money . I thank the Minister for his answer . as a member of the Public Accounts Committee , I see on a weekly basis the waste that exist under the previous Government , from the billion spend on badly procure covid contract to a Rwanda scheme that deliver nothing . what step will the Minister be take to make sure that we deal not only with value for money for the taxpayer , but the legacy of waste under the previous Government ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . [ interruption . ] conservative member be chuntere , but that be their legacy . not once in 17 year be a zero - base review do , not once do former Conservative Ministers require their Departments to go line - by - line through their budget , and not once do they think that the responsible thing to do be to go through to check how every pound of taxpayer ' money be spend . instead , there be an argument each year : how much more money be I go to get ; how much more borrowing will there be to pay for these bill ; and how many more promise be I go to make that I know I will not deliver . the british people be sick to death of that approach to politic , and this Government be take a fundamentally different approach . the adoption and special guardianship support fund provide excellent value for money in Mid Sussex for Beacon House , which be a specialist mental health and trauma clinic . unfortunately , however , the clinic ' s financial future be look uncertain . do the Minister agree that invest in mental health be always a good idea when it come to get people back to work and well again and able to contribute to society ? will the Minister work with the Department for Education to secure future funding for this vital service ? I agree entirely that mental health service be in desperate need of investment and support across the country . the evidence be very clear that there be , for example , too many people out of work who would be like to be in work , but who be wait at home unwell and unable to receive the support and service that they need and deserve . the Health Secretary be work hard on that at the moment . we be go into the spending review negotiation over the come week and month , and we will set out further detail in due course . I look forward to be able to provide more information specifically as we go through that process . I call the shadow Minister . improve public sector productivity be the no . 1 ask of Institute of Directors ' business try to weather Storm Rachel , but under Labour , public sector productivity have fall far behind pre - pandemic level . the number of civil servant work from home have go up and , shockingly , as the Daily Telegraph have find , thousand of civil servant be be sign off to work from abroad . therefore , whether it be on civil servant work from their bedroom or from Benidorm , or on other blocker of public sector productivity , what have the Chief Secretary to the Treasury actually do in his last eight month in office , or be he too comfortable with what the Prime Minister call " the tepid bath of manage decline " ? I thank the hon . member for his question . my no . 1 ask be that he have another go at make well joke in future . to answer the substance of his question , I agree with he that the state be not productive enough on a whole range of issue . he talk about civil service headcount , about Government office and location , and about work condition . he could also talk about digital transformation . frankly , we have an enormous amount of work to do , which will become evident through our spending review . it be something that be be take very seriously not just by the Treasury , but from the Prime Minister downward . I look forward to his reflect on what we suggest be the answer to 14 year of failure from his party when it be in government . government Borrowing what assessment she have make of the implication for her policy of the most recent figure for Government borrowing . in the autumn I take the decision to put our public finance back on a firm footing . the most recent GDP datum show that the economy grow by 0 . 4 % in the final month of last year . as I have say on many occasion , our fiscal rule be non - negotiable . the conservative party send mortgage rate and business borrowing cost spiral ; we have return stability to the public finance to give family and business the stability that they need . the servicing cost be now twice what we be spend on defence , which the Chancellor be right to be increase . what be her ambition for find saving in the welfare budget ? I agree that we need to get a grip of the welfare budget , which get out of control under the previous Conservative Government . frankly , I be not go to take lecture from the conservative party , which crash the economy . let I remind the House what the right hon . Gentleman say about the disastrous mini - budget : " I share entirely the free - market ideology that underpin the Chancellor ' s statement … the Chancellor be right to be radical . " he add : " I rejoice at the two finger the Chancellor have raise to socialist dogma and envy . " I think that the financial market and the british public have unite in their view on the previous Government . economic growth : Scotland what step she have take to help increase economic growth in Scotland . what step she have take to help increase economic growth in Edinburgh North and Leith constituency . economic growth be the no . 1 mission of this Government . Scotland will play an important role . at the autumn Budget we announce that the Scottish Government will be provide with £ 47 . 7 billion in its 2025 - 26 settlement — the large in real term in the history of devolution . we also confirm £ 130 million of target funding , include for city and growth deal . in Scotland , we have see almost two decade of wasteful spending while public service get bad . do the Minister agree that good public service be essential to economic growth , and that scottish taxpayer be not get good value for money under the SNP Government ? on my recent visit to Scotland I hear just that . the people of Scotland deserve the same approach that the people of England be get from this Government , who have stability and economic growth as their mission and who be get a grip of public finance after year of failure . quite frankly , we have give the Scottish Government the money , and they now need to get on with the job . if they can not , they need to move out of the way . I be sure that my right hon . friend will agree on the importance of the Scotch whisky industry . support for the industry start at home by attract investment , include at the Port of Leith distillery in my constituency , which be produce single malt Scotch whisky , attract tourist and showcase the good of scottish hospitality . my right hon . friend will be aware of the industry ' s concern about the watering down of the definition of single malt , which will have an impact on investment and growth . will he therefore work with Cabinet colleague to ensure that no change be make to the definition of single malt that would undermine the scottish success story and investment in the scottish whisky industry ? Scotch whisky be a proud british brand and export , and this Government will always support the industry . I have check with Ministers from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and I can confirm that we will not be water down the definition of single malt whisky . Mr Speaker , you will have see the film " Skyfall " , in which James Bond and M travel up the a9 . but the a9 be a killer road , and we have have a litany of broken promise from the SNP Government . that be hardly conducive to economic growth in Scotland . I thank the hon . member for his tour of the scenic a9 and for tell we the importance of that road to Scotland . I be sure that I support what would have be his question . the Scottish National party Government in Scotland ought to take infrastructure seriously , as we be do here in the UK Government . the Minister give a very good answer to a non - question . we can listen to the braying of Labour mp from Scotland or we can look at the fact that the scottish economy grow 12 % more than the UK economy in 2024 . that be because of the SNP Scottish Government ' s forensic focus on make Scotland the most attractive place in the UK for foreign direct investment year after year , have a progressive taxation system , reward our public sector worker properly and invest in our community . what difference do the Minister think agricultural property relief and business property relief will have on the scottish economy — positive or negative ? of course , when we make change to taxis , even when that it be difficult , that result in additional funding for the hon . Member and his colleague to spend . I be sure he be grateful that we have give a record - break increase in investment to the Scottish Government . I ' m grateful for nothing ! he may be grateful for nothing , and he may be agitate in his place . I suggest that he go back to the people of Scotland and explain his party ' s record in government . taxation : impact on Working People what assessment she have make of the impact of the level of taxation on work people . the Government be commit to keep taxis on work people as low as possible , which be why we be not increase the basic , high or additional rate of income tax , employee national insurance contribution or vat . the Government have publish tax information and impact note for tax policy change make at the Budget , which give a clear explanation of the policy objective together with detail of the tax impact on individual . the OBR publish an economic and fiscal outlook alongside the Budget , which set out its assessment of the effect of Government decision take on tax . borrowing cost be soar , the economy be weaken and we need to spend much more on defence . in those circumstance , can people be absolutely confident that to meet her fiscal rule , the Chancellor will not be raise income tax in the course of this Parliament ? the OBR ' s spring forecast will take place on 26 March and be accompany by a statement to Parliament from the Chancellor . ahead of the statement , the Government will not give a run commentary respond to forecast and economic development , but I reassure the hon . member that the Chancellor ' s commitment — indeed , the whole Government ' s commitment — to our fiscal rule be non - negotiable . it should not be work people who pay more tax , because wealth inequality be grow in the UK and improve living standard be ultimately what the Government will be judge on . do the Minister see the merit in introduce an annual wealth tax of 2 % on people with over £ 10 million - worth of asset , which would go an awful long way to raise £ 26 billion per annum to equalise society ? I hope my hon . friend will welcome the £ 200 million investment in the Grangemouth facility , which have already be speak about today . I hope he will also support the Government ' s decision to restore fiscal responsibility to public finance within the tough fiscal rule that the Chancellor set out at the Budget . Autumn Budget 2024 : business confidence what discussion she have have with business on the potential impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on level of business confidence . economic stability and growth be vital to help business across the UK to grow . the Lloyds business barometer publish last week show business confidence up 12 point , build on recent survey by EY and PwC that show that business and investor confidence be rise . the Government be partner with business to unlock investment and to drive growth . the Chancellor , with her unimpeachable record in the sector , will know that economic be know as the dismal science . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , rather than use second - hand statistic , I have speak directly with business one to one and find that the mood be indeed dismal . after her dud Budget , can she think again and go back on this desperate job tax ? she be in danger of become tough on growth and tough on the cause of growth . conservative Members welcome the additional money for the NHS , but they never welcome the mean to pay for it , which be why we be in the mess that we be with the £ 22 billion black hole we inherit from the previous Government . the hon . Member say that these be backward - look survey . the EY survey of UK ceo find that 82 % feel optimistic . PwC ' s late global ceo survey rank the UK as the second - most attractive global destination for international investment , and last week the Lloyds survey show a boost in business confidence . those be the fact . People be choose Britain as a place to invest and to locate their business . on the Government side of the House , we welcome that . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . it be clear that the world be change , which be why we must bring about a new era of security and renewal to keep our country safe . last week , I convene European Finance Ministers at the G20 to discuss our share challenge . I set out that national security will always be the first responsibility of this government as well as national security be the bedrock for economic prosperity . I be also proud to welcome President Zelensky to Downing Street alongside the Prime Minister at the weekend , where we sign a loan agreement that will deliver £ 2 . 26 billion in funding to Ukraine above our other commitment to bolster its military capacity , repay by the profit from frozen russian sovereign asset . we will use the additional investment in defence to create more good job pay decent wage in all part of the UK . that be why we be give the National Wealth Fund a new strategic steer to invest in technology that well support our security and defence . Britain be a strong country with strong defence , and I know that we can weather this change world . as the father of five - year - old , I know at first hand how important indoor play facility be . provider in Cannock Chase , such as the Beach Hut in Norton Canes and the Kids Rule play Cafe in Cannock , have write to I ask for consideration for a sector - specific vat reduction and the opportunity to shape the reform of business rate . be Treasury Minister willing to meet I , local provider and the Association of Indoor Play to discuss the sector ' s priority ? the Government have no plan to consider zero rating indoor play facility for vat . all tax break must provide value for money and evidence suggest that such saving be only partially pass on . I would , however , welcome my hon . friend engage with we as we look to inform our " Transforming Business Rates " paper ahead of the Budget later this year . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . how many job will the right hon . Lady destroy as a result of her job tax ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman will have look at the OBR forecast from the Budget last year , which forecast that employment will rise in this Parliament , unemployment will fall and real household disposable income will increase . that be a far cry from the last Parliament , which be the bad on record for living standard . I be surprised that the right hon . Lady do not reference the fact that the OBR also say that there would be 50 , 000 few job as a result of the NICs increase ; indeed , Bloomberg put that figure at 130 , 000 job . it do not need to be that way . on 26 March , the right hon . Lady should come to this House with a spring statement contain a clear plan around welfare saving , which we have when we be in Government . will she now confirm that she be prepared to do that with our support and put an end to the pernicious tax increase ? the right hon . Gentleman and his party have 14 year to reform the welfare system . they fail to do so , but this Government will . we be turn the british economy round after the disaster leave to we by the previous government : three cut in interest rate since the general election , real wage rise at their fast rate for three year , fuel duty freeze , the payslip of work people protect , and million get a pay rise through an increase in the national living wage . that be the change that this Government be deliver ; that be the change that the opposition be block . order . I call Jacob Collier . during his recent visit to Burton , his Majesty the King sample one of Tower Brewery ' s excellent beer , put our rich brewing heritage in the spotlight . even though his Majesty and I like a tipple , low and no - alcohol sale be up 610 % since 2013 . with a clear opportunity to support that grow sector while promote public health , will the Chancellor consider raise the alcohol - free threshold to 0 . 5 % alcohol by volume , in line with international market , to improve consumer choice — order . answer , please . my hon . friend be a fantastic campaigner for the brewery in his constituency . we want the drink sector to go from strength to strength . we be review the response to the consultation on the threshold that my hon . Friend mention . Oxfordshire have no night - time cover for palliative care , which mean that patient must dial 111 and wait hour for urgent pain relief to arrive . will the Minister commit to increase funding to the Department of Health and Social Care so integrate care board , include the Buckinghamshire , Oxfordshire and Berkshire West ICB , can deliver palliative care round the clock ? this Government , as the hon . Member will know , have already give £ 26 billion of additional funding to the national health service and additional funding to the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government for social care . we know that we have more to do . the Government be work hard on that and will set out further detail in due course . Meur ra , Mr Speaker . under this Labour Government , Cornish tin mining be back . follow the recent National Wealth Fund investment in South Crofty tin mine at the centre of my Camborne , Redruth and Hayle constituency , do the Chancellor agree that , in double the National Wealth Fund investment , that be a perfect example of how public funding should be use to unlock private investment in a strategically vital industry ? unlike the Conservatives , we believe that invest alongside private industry be good for job and good for economic growth . I visit the National Wealth Fund ' s office last month where I hear at first hand about its equity investment in Cornish Metals . this will help to finance the reopening of Cornwall ' s South Crofty tin mine , create more than 300 local job , and — order . look , enough be enough . I have to get member in from both side . I be sorry that the Front Bench do not want to get these member in , but I be determined to . these be call topical question , which mean I want quick question and certainly short answer . I call the Father of the House , Sir Edward Leigh . I hope that I will not damage the Chancellor if I commend the fiscally conservative way in which she be increase defence spending . give that if every european country match our 2 . 5 % commitment , we could release over £ 150 billion of defence spending , do she agree that we can crack this , because war and peace be always win , ultimately , by the size the economy ? I very much agree with the right hon . Gentleman . this be why I meet my fellow European Finance Ministers in Cape Town at the G20 last week . all of Europe need to step up . the british Government be do so and we need to see that from other country , too . acknowledge that official development assistance will go down to 0 . 3 % of GNI in 2027 , can the Minister confirm whether it will remain at 0 . 5 % for the calendar year of 2026 , which will help ensure that UK aid keep the maximum number of people alive for the long possible time ? impact on ODA budget be currently under review by the Government . our commitment be to prioritise legal obligation and minimise disruption . we will confirm detail in due course , but I will happily meet my hon . friend and colleague to discuss this far . expand UK airport capacity have a very shaky case for economic benefit , because business be not increase its use of air travel , and the UK send three time as many tourist out by plane as we welcome in . will the Chancellor urgently publish her evidence of any net benefit to the economy from airport expansion so that it can be carefully examine ? we have to decide whether we be for growth or against growth . this Government be for growth and we will set out further detail of this particular project when the developer come forward with their plan for the Government to consider . the previous Government ' s mismanagement have leave our flood defence unfit for purpose , which have a huge impact on my constituent . will the Chancellor set out what the Government be do to increase community resilience against flooding and coastal erosion ? to ensure that we protect the country from the devastating impact of flooding , we have commit £ 2 . 65 billion over 2024 - 25 to 2025 - 26 to improve flood defence , and we have establish a flood resilience taskforce to feed into our decision on future spending , which will report in due course . Bridgwater ' s 77 pub , include the Crossways Inn in West Huntspill , be at the heart of our local community , yet the sector overpay £ 500 million in business rate relative to turnover . will the Chancellor commit to the British Beer and Pub Association ' s call for a 20p cut in the small business multipli and 15p off the standard multipli , in order to secure the future of british pub ? we have freeze the small business multiplier this year and we will be introduce permanently low multiplier for retail hospitality and leisure premise from April 2026 , which will benefit pub . meanwhile , they also benefit from our decision to increase the duty relief for draft product . what be this Government do to ensure innovation in UK tech company , such as Kao Park in my constituency , so that they can drive economic growth as part of world - class AI computer ecosystem ? Harlow be home to one of the UK ' s large supercomputer . we be take forward the AI action plan and we also have the tech adoption review , which will look at how we can unlock the potential of AI in our high - growth sector . attract high net worth individual to spend more time in the United Kingdom drive job , growth and , crucially , tax revenue , but unfortunately the opposite be happen in the UK right now . will the Chancellor use the spring statement to look at the statutory residence test and , in particular , the tie rule to see whether we can incentivise people to spend more time in the UK , not the other way around ? as part of the reform announce at the autumn Budget , we be modernise the system for people from overseas spending time in the UK with a new residence - base test . we be always look at way to encourage people from overseas to spend time in and invest in the UK and to help grow our economy . I congratulate the Government on announce the great level of financial sanction last week . do the Chancellor agree that keep dirty money out of the City of London and home and community across our country be vital for our national security , as well as our economic stability ? it be absolutely right that we increase and step up the sanction last week . also , under the loan agreement we make with Ukraine last week , the loan will be repay with the profit on foreign sovereign russian asset . Russia should pay for the damage it have do . my constituent be one of hundred of people who suffer from the collapse of Collateral . while the Financial Conduct Authority have apologise to investor for fail to act fast to stop Collateral ' s fraudulent activity , I be concerned that , without internal change , the FCA will make similar mistake again . should there not be an investigation into the FCA ' s handling of the case ? I be happy to meet the hon . Lady and look at the case she mention , because I need to get more detail . the Transport Committee have look at the economic growth case for the Heathrow expansion and have hear conflicting evidence on the project ' s growth impact on region away from London and the south - east , and also on other carbon - use sector . will the Chancellor ask Heathrow Airport to release the full text of the Frontier Economics report on which she make her decision to expand Heathrow ? heathrow , as an important hub airport , will have benefit for region across the country , as chamber of commerce have say to we . of course , I understand that the Transport Committee be look at the issue , and we will consider its report when it publish it in due course . St Raph ' s hospice in my constituency face a £ 140 , 000 increase in staff cost due to the Government ' s national insurance hike . that mean the hospice will have to far cut staff service that take pressure off the NHS . will the Chancellor think again and provide an exemption for healthcare provider from the national insurance rise ? the Chancellor set out our Budget , and I set out during debate on the Finance Bill and related legislation exactly how we will implement the change announce at the Budget . in the case of employer national insurance contribution , there be define way in which public sector organisation be reimburse . the change do not apply to hospice , as they be largely charity or be not directly part of the public sector . I also point he to the £ 100 million of extra investment that we have announce in improve hospice . do the Minister agree that investment in the fifty500 midland growth corridor will provide an excellent opportunity to deliver this Labour Government ' s mission for growth and opportunity for all ? I join my hon . friend in celebrate investment in her region . our growth mission be one in which each part of the country will benefit , and we look forward to work far with she . with farmer protest again in Westminster today , why be the Chancellor of the Exchequer run away from meet farming union from across this nation ? why do those who feed our nation not deserve some of the Chancellor ' s time ? just two week ago , I spend a fair amount of time meeting representative from the National Farmers Union and other representative organisation from different nation within the UK . I listen to their concern and what they have to say . we have to be honest that we disagree . they do not agree with the Government ' s policy , and I need to be direct about that because we have to take a number of difficult decision at the Budget . but I do not apologise for the importance of balance the public finance and stick to our fiscal rule . next month will see a rise and an extension to the minimum wage . in Portsmouth North , there be 9 , 600 minimum wage worker — high than the national average — leave many in in - work poverty and in desperate need of a boost to living standard . what step be the Government take to help improve living standard for those low - pay worker ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that a high minimum wage be an important way that we make low - earn worker ' live well — as be the extension that we announce to sick pay yesterday , which I hope will be welcome on all side of this House . the art of taxation be extract the large amount of money with the low amount of squeaking from the goose . yet the Chancellor will have hear the honking of the tractor on Whitehall today in response to she raise an amount of money that will pay for less than one day of NHS spending . will she commit to reverse the family farm tax ? as we have debate several time in this Chamber and Westminster Hall , the change to agricultural property relief and business property relief retain a generous relief for people access those benefit within the taxation system . that mean that people will get £ 1 million before inheritance tax be due , in addition to the exist nil rate band for spousal transfer . over that , it be up to an effective rate of 20 % , and any money due can be pay over 10 year , interest free . the Government ' s recent £ 100 million investment in hospice , include St Michael ' s hospice in Basingstoke , will help to modernise facility , enhance digital service and provide more comfortable space for patient and their family . give the vital role that hospice play in all our community , will the Treasury continue to work with the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure the sector ' s long - term financial stability ? as my hon . friend rightly point out , £ 100 million be be make available for hospice — £ 25 million in 2024 - 25 and £ 75 million from April 2025 . that capital funding be intend to help charitable hospice in his constituency and elsewhere across the country to improve and modernise their facility and physical estate . Britain be only 55 % food secure . in these deeply uncertain time internationally , be it not time to change policy when it come to agriculture ? be this not the day to get rid of the family farm tax , undo the 76 % cut in basic payment and invest in the people who keep we food secure ? as I have make clear to other hon . member , the change to agricultural property relief be a fair way to raise the money necessary to balance the public finance . Britain have excellent food security , and that be a priority for the Government . it be right that the Government have put more money into defence . however , in answer to a previous question , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say that there be an impact assessment of the overseas development budget . do that mean that it be still in scope of the spending review and that there could be change to that budget in June ? just to clarify , I do not say there be an impact assessment ; I say that the impact of the change be be consider by the Government , but we will set out the detail on that in due course . I commend the Government for their international leadership at this challenging time . event overnight make it even clear that Europe must find considerably more resource for Ukraine . the Chancellor have rightly continue our policy of use the interest on frozen russian state asset to benefit Ukraine , but I believe that now be the moment to go far by actually seize those asset . Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine violate the principle of sovereign equality , provide a basis in international law for such a policy , and by act in concert with our ally , we can ensure that there be no risk to financial stability . may I urge the Chancellor to push for co - ordinate action to seize those frozen russian state asset and give that money to the Ukrainians so that they can defend and rebuild their country ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his word about this Government step up the funding for defence . last week , we expand sanction on Russia , include by look at financial service . this week , we have sign off a UK Export Finance package to provide more military support , above and beyond our defence spending and as well as the loan repay use the profit on those asset . as the Prime Minister say yesterday , we would look at go far but , as the right hon . Gentleman know , it be incredibly complicated to do that in line with international law . however , we keep all option on the table , because , as he be absolutely right to say , Russia should pay for the damage that Russia have cause . Gaza ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the situation in Gaza . we urge all party to fully implement the ceasefire to help deliver a permanent end to hostility . we be very concerned at report that Israel be prevent humanitarian aid from enter Gaza . Israel must not block aid come into Gaza . humanitarian aid should never be contingent on a ceasefire or use as a political tool . we urge the Government of Israel to lift restriction immediately and unconditionally . the humanitarian situation in Gaza be dire . the halt on good and supply enter Gaza risk breach Israel ' s obligation under international humanitarian law . the UK be do all we can to provide support . alongside our exist support , on 28 January , the then Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , announce a furth £ 17 million in funding to ensure that healthcare , food and shelter reach ten of thousand of civilian , and to support vital infrastructure across the Occupied Palestinian Territories and neighbouring country . we must all work together with the United Nations and all partner to continue to facilitate aid and ensure it be sustain . fully reinstate commercial delivery will be key , as will allow more type of good in , so that civilian who lose their home can be protect and civilian infrastructure repair . we welcome the announcement of an agreement to end the fighting in Gaza , and we welcome the release of 38 hostage in Gaza so far , include british national Emily Damari and Eli Sharabi , who both have both close link to the UK . emily , of course , have meet the Prime Minister and discuss her dreadful treatment at the hand of Hamas . the hostage and their family have endure unimaginable suffering from the cruelty of Hamas , and the situation in Gaza have continue to worsen . the current ceasefire be the only way for the region to move forward . as we have make clear , we want to see a negotiate two - state solution , with a sovereign palestinian state , include the west bank and Gaza , alongside a safe and secure Israel . we have also make it clear that we would oppose any effort to move Palestinians in Gaza to neighbour arab state against their will . force displacement of Palestinians or any reduction in the territory of the Gaza strip be simply not an option . we need palestinian civilian to be able to return to their home and life , and to rebuild . international law guarantee they this right . a two - state solution be the only way to secure long - term peace and security for Palestinians and Israelis . as the Foreign Secretary say : " you can hold in your heart the pain of the israeli people and the plight of those hostage and their family , and at the same time , you can hold in your heart the awful damage , pain and suffering that this have work on Gaza , with well over 45 , 000 palestinian people have lose their life . " — [ Official Report , 16 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 535 . ] we must continue to focus on the future and on turn the current ceasefire deal into a political process that lead to a two - state solution , include the west bank and Gaza . over the weekend , the israeli Government take the decision to block the entry of humanitarian aid into Gaza . the Minister talk about that aid , but it can no long be deliver . Israel be once again use starvation as a weapon of war , and today we hear that it have also announce a so - call " hell plan " that would see electricity and remain water supply cut off . these decision coincide with the end of the first phase of the ceasefire agreement , with negotiation on phase 2 barely begin , jeopardise the release of the remain live hostage , plan for the withdrawal of israeli force from Gaza and a long - term peace agreement . the UN have say : " international humanitarian law be clear : we must be allow access to deliver vital lifesave aid . " Oxfam describe the move , make as Ramadan begin , as a " reckless act of collective punishment , explicitly prohibit under international humanitarian law " , and the International Court of Justice have previously issue explicit instruction to Israel to facilitate aid delivery to Gaza . do the Minister agree that the israeli Government be again in clear violation of the ceasefire agreement and of international humanitarian law ? have she , or have her colleague , speak to their israeli counterpart to condemn Israel ' s " hell plan " , and to make it clear that there must be no resumption of the war and that it be unacceptable for the people of Gaza to be deny critical food , water , and medical or any other supply ? what action will the UK take against the israeli Government if they continue , illegally , to use humanitarian aid and access to water and power as a bargaining chip ? I know that the Minister want the ceasefire to hold . can she share her assessment of the impact of these late development on the prospect for a lasting , just and fair peace ? I thank the hon . Lady for the urgent question . a halt on good and supply enter Gaza , such as that announce by the Government of Israel , do risk breach obligation under international humanitarian law . to answer her question directly , the UK Government have be in touch with interlocutor to make that point . in fact , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , be in the region push for a peace deal , hence my cover this brief today , although I be the Indo - Pacific Minister . humanitarian aid should never be contingent on a ceasefire or use as a political tool . on 28 January , the then Minister for development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , announce £ 17 million in funding to ensure that healthcare , food and shelter could reach ten of thousand of civilian , and to support vital infrastructure across the Occupied Palestinian Territories . the UK have announce £ 129 million of funding for the opt so far this financial year , include £ 41 million for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) ask about the long - term ceasefire prospect . the UK play its part in push both side towards a hopeful future for the region . we be work with not just arab state , but partner such as the US to try to push for a solution that be in line with international humanitarian law . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I have just come back from the middle east , where I go with the Foreign Affairs Committee . while the world watch with increase alarm the disintegration of the peace process in Gaza , we be warn in Saudi Arabia , Jordan , the west bank and Israel that the far - right Government in Israel may have no long - term plan on Gaza , but that there be a long - term plan for the west bank , and that be annexation . the international community be well aware of that . it see the eviction , the demolition , the increase number of israeli settlement , and that 40 , 000 people have recently be displace . in these day of hard power , what be plan b ? what will the international community do to stop the annexation of the west bank ? it will not be enough to simply condemn it once it have happen . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her ongoing interest in this important matter of foreign policy , and for the work that she and her Committee have do , include through personal interview and visit to the region . that be all part of the supportive role that the UK must play . it must take an international role in push for peace . the UK Government have take a very tough position on militant faction or group attack Palestinians in the occupy territory and the west bank . we continue to look at the measure available to get our message across in not just word , but action . with my right hon . friend ' s permission , I will write to she as Chair of the Select Committee with an update assessment of the situation . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . as recent day have show , the ceasefire continue to be incredibly fragile . of course , we all want this agreement to hold , and none of we should be in any doubt that that hinge on the release of each and every hostage hold by the Iranian - back terrorist Hamas , who cause the conflict by their sickening act on 7 October . as the Minister have point out , those hostage and their family have now suffer unimaginably for more than 500 day , and that can not go on . the hostage have be hold in barbaric condition , and the world have be shock by the distressing scene involve those who have be release . the Minister rightly refer to Emily Damari and other . Emily have share detail of her really awful ordeal in captivity by Hamas . we all wish she well in her medical appointment and in the treatment that she be receive . last week , we also tragically see the distressing return of the body of those kill in Hamas captivity . our heart break for their love one , and we mourn with they and with the people of Israel . I have a series of question for the Minister . first , what role be the UK play in help to get an agreement on phase 2 of this ceasefire over the line ? what discussion have the Foreign Secretary have with America , Israel , and other regional player in recent day ? what engagement have the Government have with the plan for the future of Gaza that be be discuss in Cairo , and on how to prevent Hamas from continue to control the Gaza strip ? secondly , what be the Government ' s practical response on aid access ? how be they work to unblock this situation , and what be happen to the british aid that be already in the region or en route ? finally , what recent conversation have Foreign Office Ministers have with the International Committee of the Red Cross , both on its effort on hostage release and on humanitarian assistance more broadly ? I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for emphasise the effect on family on both side of this terrible conflict , but particularly on the british family whom the Prime Minister have meet , and on Emily Damari , and their dignity and grace . she also mention all those who want a home , want security in the region , and have be affect by this most horrendous of war . she evoke the terrible image of hostage be release while the most macabre of pantomime go on behind they . that cruelty be utterly unacceptable , and the UK have make that very clear to interlocutor , both at ministerial and Foreign Secretary level . the shadow Foreign Secretary have talk about phase 2 . there have be stop and start in this peace process , as there often be in these very difficult situation . our role be to continue to speak very closely with the US and with Steve Witkoff to push for practical , day - to - day solution . she ask about british aid and what negotiation we be undertake . we be in daily contact with the region , and be push for discussion , conversation and dialogue , so that aid can get back in . follow this urgent question , we undertake to contact the Red Cross , one of our partner organisation , with the message that this House want that aid to re - enter the area , and to save life . the powerful scene of Palestinians celebrate the start of Ramadan , even as their home and life have be reduce to rubble by israeli force , send a defiant message to the world that despite the displacement and destruction , Palestinians remain rooted in their land . will the Minister confirm that the decision to block all aid to Gaza , collectively punish the entire population , be a war crime and a breach of international law , contravene provision of the Geneva convention and the Rome statute ? my hon . friend be quite right to point out the devastating impact of no aid get through , and to say that a halt on good and supply enter Gaza , such as that recently announce by the Government of Israel , risk breach Israel ' s obligation under international humanitarian law . it be not for Ministers at the Dispatch Box to make legal decision or judgment , but I assure my hon . friend that the former Minister for development pledge £ 17 million to ensure that healthcare , food and shelter can reach ten of thousand of civilian , and to support vital infrastructure . my hon . friend must reassure her constituent that the Foreign Office be do all it can to get infrastructure across the opt and into Gaza , in order to relieve the suffering . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the israeli Government be wrong to prevent humanitarian aid enter Gaza . that threaten the life of Gazans who be dependent on aid after the destruction of the past 15 month , and be a clear breach of international humanitarian law . what practical step be the Government take to ensure that the israeli Government back down and let that aid in ? I understand the depth of distress in Israel about the despicable way that Hamas terrorist have play psychological game with the hostage and their family , but withhold essential supply of food , medicine and shelter only worsen the devastation face by the palestinian people . in the west bank , we also see illegal settler violently attack Palestinians and apparently receive the support of member of the Israeli Cabinet . do the Minister agree that we in the UK must do all we can to undermine the extremist in this conflict , so that a second phase of the ceasefire can be negotiate , all hostage can be release , and Gazans can receive the aid that they desperately need ? I thank the Lib Dem spokesperson for his word . he be quite right to emphasise the psychological impact of this terrible conflict , and the traumatise state of people in the region . as the Foreign Secretary have say , we welcome the release of the 38 hostage in Gaza , include of course Emily Damari , whom we have already mention . we think so much of those member of the Lifshitz family — they of course have strong tie to the UK — who be hold hostage by terrorist in Gaza and who die . we thank Qatar , Egypt and the US for provide support to ensure that the horrific ordeal of individual and family can come to an end , but unfortunately , this be not the end . that be why it be so important that we take this moment to push . the hon . Gentleman ask what we be do practically . we be in daily contact with the region , include our mission there . obviously , in the context of the international debate , intervention such as this urgent question push for a just solution for those on both side of this terrible conflict . last week , I be in the west bank , alongside other member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , on our wide trip to the middle east . while the world ' s attention be rightly on the devastating humanitarian situation in Gaza , we meet Palestinians in the Jordan valley whose school be be attack , whose mosque be be burn , and whose livestock be be steal by extremist israeli settler . this be happen with the apparent connivance of the israeli security force , and it appear to be part of a wide plan for annexation . what step be we take to prevent further erosion of palestinian land in the west bank that would put the two - state solution even far away ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for his expertise on aid and foreign affair . he be quite right to emphasise the action of some settler . there be many settler community that just get on with it , and that want a peaceful solution , but he be right to say that there be violence in the settlement , which be of course unlawful under international humanitarian law and harm the prospect of a two - state solution . I thank my hon . friend for put on record the impact on the faith community , particularly during the holy month of Ramadan , and the fact that mosque have be attack . we will ensure that that point get through in our next discussion with our interlocutor , both on the israeli side and on the palestinian side . no one be surprised that as soon as the world ' s attention shift from Gaza , Israel reimpose its siege , prevent the entry of all humanitarian aid . the Minister know the impact that this will have on the beleaguered civilian population , who be already suffer from disease , starvation and an absence of healthcare . after 17 month in which Israel have be give carte blanche , none of we — least of all Netanyahu — expect there to be any meaningful consequence from Israel ' s action , but do the Minister consider what be happen in Gaza to be collective punishment ? if she do not , what would she call it ? sometimes , the word we use be really important . there have be an enormous amount of suffering . we know that so many in Israel feel that we do not understand their need for security , and so many in Gaza feel that we do not understand the depth of their suffering . we must redouble our effort to communicate what we want , which be a two - state solution and a peaceful future for both community , which must live side by side . the leader of the arab world have make welcome proposal about the future of Gaza and its people . what update can the Minister give on the UK ' s support for those proposal , and will she join I in welcome the fact that the proposal recognise that the terrorist death cult Hamas can have no part in the future governance of Gaza ? my hon . friend be quite right to say that , as a proscribe terror organisation , Hamas have certainly display some very frightening characteristic that we would expect of a terrorist organisation . there be also the macabre pantomime that we see in the past couple of week during the release of hostage — that be truly shocking . I thank he for his question . the exact detail on the next stage of the negotiation be to be define by the two party , but we play a real role both with the ally , which be Israel , but also work with Egypt , Qatar and the wide region . that be why our Minister right now be in the region , make the point that we want to be involve , push for a peaceful solution and to see that day when terrorism be not extant and the two community can live side by side in peace . I be go to ask what we would do if the Israelis refuse to let in aid , or to turn on the water and power , but I think we all know that basically the answer be nothing . instead , let I ask this . the Minister rightly mention the macabre display around the return of the hostage and the condition of those hostage , and she be right . I think she say that she have take that up with interlocutor . why have not she mention the return of the palestinian non - combatant ? why have not she mention their condition when they be return , often emaciated and show sign of torture ? why have she not mention the number of senior medic who have be detain without charge and then die in mysterious circumstance in israeli detention ? apparently there be some kind of investigation , but it never come to a conclusion . be she surprised that people have become cynical about british conduct in this conflict , when it seem that we be only concerned about the welfare of one side ? with all due respect , I think that across this House we have have a very balanced approach to the suffering of all the community in the region . the right hon . member be right to mention the terrible suffering of those who have experience arbitrary detention or alleged torture by various law enforcement agency . he be also right to include that in what need to be the next step of the negotiation — the hostage on the one side , but those be release from prison on the other . I remind he that there be concern that some people who might have be release should not have be . all of that have to be take in the round and balanced . I encourage balance and understanding about the suffering of both side of the community and the desire for security in the word that we use in the House . the issue of collaboration and infiltration between Hamas and some UNRWA official be well document . clearly , people in Gaza need aid , so can the Minister update we on how we be monitor the work be do to restore neutrality and confidence in UNRWA ? the UK Government have be a supporter of the work of UNRWA throughout this conflict and before it . we have be support UNRWA financially , as have all international organisation and country . there have be problem with certain challenge to individual who have be employ by UNRWA , but we have consistently join with ally in express our concern about the role of UNRWA be curtail . at the UN Security Council session on 6 November , 11 December , 3 January , 28 January and 25 February , and in a joint statement with partner on 27 October , we urge that the important work of UNRWA can continue . the blockade of aid be just the last line in a long list of activity that Israelis have commit against the palestinian people . now that we have cut our overseas aid to a mere 0 . 3 % of gdp — the low in real term in 20 year — do the Minister still agree with the Labour party manifesto that international aid make the world " a safe , more prosperous place " ? do she agree that , with this move , the UK ' s historic role in the middle east be dead and over ? the hon . member be right to talk about the ongoing need for aid in the region , and the Prime Minister be very careful in his speech at the end of last week — I think he have mention it since then in the press — to say that humanitarian aid must continue . Gaza be specifically mention , because it be one of our top priority . the hon . Member be aware that the decision to divert some of our aid spending into the defence of Europe be only a week old , but he must also be aware that we will come forward with the detail of that . I reassure he and his constituent that Gaza be specifically mention in this House by the Prime Minister , because it remain one of our top priority in the Foreign Office . it be clear that Israel have be embolden by trumpian tactic in impose a total siege and block all supply , include humanitarian aid into Gaza , to force new ceasefire term . we in this House should be clear and call that what it be : collective punishment of the palestinian people , starvation as a method of war , and a blatant war crime . will the Minister finally sanction Israel for these gross violation of international law ? specifically on the question of sanction , I think my hon . friend know what I be go to say , which be that we do not talk about they until we make a decision . we review any tool that we have available to we to protest . we also need to understand that we be in the midst of a peace process . we know that peace process throughout history have have stop - start element . what we be do be make clear our view — the view of this House and of the Government — that humanitarian aid must not be prevent from enter Gaza . while this important peace process be go on , people still need to eat . they still need lifesave medical treatment . child still need to be educate . that be the point we have continue to make all the way along . in her letter resign as Development Minister last week , the right hon . member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) write that " it will be impossible … give the depth of the cut " to maintain the Government ' s support for all their development commitment . she explicitly cite aid to Gaza . at this point , I commend the Totnes Friends of Palestine for raise £ 10 , 000 to help those in Gaza . with hospital destroy , a lack of clean water , desperate food shortage and now more threat to power and water supply , how will the Minister ensure that last week ' s cut to development spending will not worsen the humanitarian catastrophe happen in Gaza ? I congratulate the hon . member on all the work she do in her community to show international support and solidarity for community in Gaza . we know that the humanitarian situation remain extremely challenging , with more than 48 , 000 have be kill and 90 % of the population have be displace , many repeatedly . I think the UK have a really good story to tell . we have be in there for many decade now . she mention the outgoing Minister for Development , and a furth £ 17 million be announce on 28 January so that healthcare , food and shelter could reach ten of thousand of civilian , and to support vital infrastructure . the hon . Member ask about ongoing funding , and she be right to ask that question and hold our foot to the fire . once we have have time to look at the come financial year and the comprehensive spending review , she will have her answer . do the Minister agree that Israel ' s decision to block aid to more than 2 million Palestinians in Gaza be collective punishment ? with 80 % of Gaza ' s health infrastructure destroy , 1 , 000 medical worker kill and the World Health Organisation estimate that 14 , 000 Palestinians , include 4 , 500 child , require urgent medical evacuation , what concrete step have we take to ensure that aid get in and that those who need medical treatment have that treatment make available to they ? I thank my hon . friend for her ongoing campaigning on humanitarian aid for Gaza . it be very positive that the Rafah crossing remain open : that have lead to a significant increase in the number of medical evacuation in recent week . it be vital for Israel to ensure that there be a sustained passage for patient who need treatment that be not available in Gaza , and official from all relevant Whitehall Departments be explore avenue to ensure that our support well meet the need of the those who be critically ill there . the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) talk about the medical staff who be under threat . we have support they with technical advice and training , and we have also announce £ 1 million for the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population , to be deliver through who Egypt , to support Palestinians who have be medically evacuate from Gaza . yesterday the all - party parliamentary group on UK - Israel hear from the family of five of the remain hostage . it be estimate that of the 59 who be still in captivity , only 24 be alive and 35 have be murder . the recently release hostage Eli Sharabi describe the condition in which he be detain : he be hold in chain , brutally beat and starve . Alon Ohel , who be hold alongside he , remain in captivity . the family believe that the remain hostage be in a very vulnerable position . clearly the demand must be for all of they to be release immediately , and that should be the aim of the British Government . what action be the Minister take to ensure that happen ? I thank the hon . member for his ongoing support for peace in the region . he specifically mention the family of Eli Sharabi , and we know that those family have a UK connection . the UK have play an active role in co - ordinating with international partner since the beginning of the conflict . the Foreign Secretary have visit Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories on three occasion since take office , and have work closely with european partner in push for a resolution to secure the ceasefire . I think the situation have improve on that front in the last couple of week , but the hon . member be right to emphasise the importance of the return of hostage as part of the negotiate next part of the peace process . I thank the Minister for update the House on this troubling matter . the israeli Government ' s decision be contrary to international humanitarian law and clearly undermine such a fragile ceasefire . both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have be absolutely clear about the right of Palestinians to return home to Gaza to rebuild their life . do the Minister agree that their right to return be jeopardise by the blocking of critical humanitarian aid , and what action will the Government take if that right continue to be restrict ? my hon . friend be right that humanitarian aid should never be contingent on a ceasefire or use as a political tool , and we urge the Government of Israel to lift restriction immediately and unconditionally . he ask what else this government will do . we will continue to support the peace process , which should involve both side get around the table , free the hostage , allow the aid in , and have a vision for the future of this region that be so affect by conflict and death . I pay tribute to the former Development Minister , my constituency neighbour the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , for her work in this area , and also for the wise word in her resignation letter . the Minister have rightly say that force displacement be unacceptable . indeed , I think she say that the action of the illegal extremist settler be unlawful . you may have see the Oscars ceremony this week , Mr Speaker , which feature an incredible film call " no Other Land " , which highlight the force displacement in Masafer Yatta , and be make by Israelis and Palestinians together . it win the Oscar . I bet they would trade every gong go for that film to have its desire effect , and for the violence to stop . we can do something , and if ever there be a time for we to ban the illegal settlement good that fund those extremist settler , be now not that time ? I thank the hon . Lady for all her work in the community and also in the House , educate member not just on the two side that we always think about but on the christian community in Gaza and in Palestine — the palestinian Christians who be so much affect by the current conflict . she mention the UK ' s position on settlement . I want to be clear that our position be that they be illegal under international law , present an obstacle to peace and threaten the physical viability of a two - state solution . many member have speak about the importance of humanitarian aid , which be vital to save so many life , but the role of the aid worker who be work on the ground in horrific condition be also vital . accord to estimate , more than 320 have be kill , the high number on record , but we see many aid organisation be attack on social medium , with claim that they have link to terrorist organisation . what more can the Minister do to make clear the Government ' s support for these vital international aid worker and organisation ? they include Islamic Relief , base in my constituency , which be one of the UK ' s five non - governmental organisation certify by the core humanitarian standard in respect of aid and transparency . what more can we do to support these vital aid worker ? I thank my hon . friend for her important work in this regard , and I thank those aid organisation that be base just across the river . not only must aid reach those who need it in all area , but the important work of aid worker must be respect and they must be protect . it be horrify to hear report that , for example , six baby have die from hypothermia and cold - relate injury in Gaza in just two week . islamic aid , the Red Cross and all the other organisation that make up the partnership across the region must be able to get into Gaza to do their important work , and must also allow to bring in good such as tent , medical equipment and machinery that be need to support the resumption of basic service in Gaza . I thank the Minister for her response to the urgent question . over the weekend and in the Chamber yesterday , the Prime Minister make very clear his support for Ukraine until peace be achieve , for which I be eternally grateful ; but will the Minister confirm that our support remain with Israel as we attempt to secure peace for now and a lasting solution to maintain it , and that we hope that a future can be achieve for the child on both side of the Gaza boundary ? I thank the hon . member for mention the child involve in this conflict . he be well aware of the trauma that can be pass down from generation to generation , and of the many orphan in the region . I thank he for his commitment to the state of Israel and a secure future for its people so that the suffering of people in Palestine can also come to an end . as well as express my sadness and alarm about the Netanyahu Government ' s again block aid from enter Gaza , may I point out that over the year I have repeatedly express my concern in Parliament about the forced eviction and illegal settlement in the west bank ? now , shockingly , for the first time in two decade , there be tank in Jenin and far displacement of Palestinians . what representation be the Government make to the israeli Government that aid must not be block from enter Gaza , and that this illegal occupation and these further eviction must be stop immediately ? my hon . friend ' s question give I a further opportunity to emphasise that israeli settlement be illegal under international law and harm the prospect for a two - state solution . the Foreign Secretary have make it clear to israeli Ministers on a number of occasion that their Government must clamp down on settler violence and end settler expansion . I thank the Minister for mention orphan , who , unfortunately , do not have much of a voice in this place , although sadly there be too many in the world as we see more and more conflict . I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) that civilian life be just as precious whether they be israeli or palestinian , and that we should do all we can , across the House , to save life . I fear , however — this may be a surprise — that the big foreign policy headache for the Government over coming month may be not Ukraine but Israel , with the divergence of the new American Administration over Israel be of great concern . do the Minister accept what have be agree today at the arab summit in Cairo — a $ 53 billion five - year reconstruction plan for Gaza which will allow displace Palestinians to return , no Trump Gaza riviera , and country in the region put Palestinians back into Gaza and at the heart of its future ? I thank the hon . member for his question , which have many aspect . he be aware that the majority of home in Gaza have be damage or destroy , the economy have collapse and the delivery of basic service , include energy and water , have be badly affect . over 60 % of the electricity distribution network have be damage or destroy . over 90 % of main road be damage , profoundly limit the mobility of people , aid and good . that be why the underlining of the $ 53 . 2 billion be so welcome . we be supportive of regional effort cohere around a single workable reconstruction plan for Gaza , and we support the regional expertise in construction to get go on that . on the hon . Gentleman ' s question about orphan , he be perhaps aware that one of the Foreign Secretary ' s main area of concern be the welfare of child , particularly child who be orphan or in need of adoption or foster . I will take back the concern that he express about that workstream , on which we do quite a lot in the Foreign Office , and emphasise its importance . the suffering of palestinian child who have be attack by israeli drone be devastating , and the fact that those child be deny medical support and assistance be even more so . the Minister have say that we be look at medical evacuation , but do she agree that action speak louder than word ? when will enough be enough , and when will these child get the attention that they so desperately need ? other country be provide support right now . my hon . friend be quite right to talk about child . whether it be in Sudan , Ukraine or anywhere else , we know that child suffer deep trauma as a result of conflict , and we be deeply alarmed by the disproportionate impact of the conflict on child in Gaza . half of Gaza ' s population be child , and the consequence of ten of thousand be kill , injure or separate from their parent threaten not only their individual future , but the very fabric of palestinian society for generation to come . Most , if not all , student in Gaza have not have access to education since 7 October , and at least 88 % of school building will need full or major reconstruction . my hon . friend be quite right to ask what we be do . the UK be support the restoration of education service in Gaza , include through the UN Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the UN Relief and Works Agency for palestinian Refugees in the Near East . she will be aware of the important work to maintain the ceasefire so that we have a hope of realise the reconstruction dream . I be very pleased to hear the Minister emphasise that the withholding of humanitarian aid be a direct contravention of international humanitarian law . what step be her government take to work with partner in the region and in Europe to apply pressure on the israeli Government , to ensure that the flow of critical aid be no long impede ? that be precisely why we have ministerial visit to the region : to emphasise the importance , not only to the Government but to this House , of the message that we must keep push for a peaceful future . in the meantime , we must provide enough food to eat and enough water to wash and to cook , to educate child and keep people healthy and safe . have the Government carry out an assessment of the impact of the withdrawal of USAID from the region ? in light of any assessment that may have be carry out , be the Government confident that the decision to cut the international aid budget will not be an increasingly detrimental problem in Gaza ? I understand that the Prime Minister have say that funding for Gaza be ringfence and that our humanitarian aid will continue , but I be concerned that the withdrawal of american aid may leave a vacuum that we can not fill . it be true that , over the decade , the people of the USA have be generous in provide aid across the world , include in the region . it will be almost impossible to replace the important work that usaid have do over the decade in the middle east . I will not , however , give up hope , because we have to keep make the case for work together internationally . a lot of the work in the region be do by partner work multilaterally . much of that work have be do by usaid , but it be also about try to encourage other country , include those in the region that have more vibrant economy , to step up to the plate and fill the gap . on my hon . friend ' s specific question about the assessment , it be not complete , because the decision be still relatively recent , as be our own decision on UNRWA a week ago . I trust that we will come back to the House when we know the shape of the comprehensive spending review and how we will address this difficult problem . on Monday , the London School of Economics ' middle east centre will host the launch of a book call " Understanding Hamas " . one contributor to the book , Azzam Tamimi , have previously call for the destruction of the state of Israel . speaker at the event deny that Hamas be a terrorist organisation and wrongly dismiss Israel as a " white , settler colonialist nation " . will the Minister join I in say very clearly that this be not an accurate description of Israel ? there be no genocide , as I hear an hon . member claim early , and Hamas be a terrorist organisation that seek to murder Jews and have bring nothing but destruction and disaster to the people of Gaza . I thank the hon . gentleman for do his research before come to the House , and I can confirm that Hamas be a terror organisation that be proscribe by our Government for those reason . it be really important that we be robust in our defence of the right of the state of Israel , our ally , to exist . the people of both Israel and Palestine have be fail by their leadership , with horrific consequence . one person who know that more than most be my constituent ' s father , Oded Lifschitz , whose coffin we see parade horrifically through the street of Khan Yunis . we should say his name in this place , because he dedicate his life to secure peace between Israel and Palestine . he drive ambulance over the border to help palestinian people . we can be clear in this Chamber that withhold aid and use starvation as a weapon of war be wrong , but if we want to challenge that leadership , we must step up ourselves . the Minister previously speak about what we be do to try to support medical need in Gaza . for the avoidance of doubt — may oded ' s memory be a blessing , and in his cause we will follow up — can the Minister be clear that we will evacuate people who need medical assistance from Gaza to the UK ? the Lifschitz family have a great champion in my hon . friend , who have come to the House and lay out in clear term her expectation of the Government . there be certain scheme to assist family in medical emergency . with her permission , I will write to she with the detail and the exact guideline that be use by the Government to determine who be eligible for those scheme . there have now be 60 , 000 know death in Gaza . Israel be already accuse by the ICJ and the ICC of war crime , include genocidal act , and it be now commit a new war crime by deny food and water to the people of Gaza . what will it take for the British Government to cease all arm supply to Israel and to end the use of the RAF base in Akrotiri as a staging point for delivery to Israel ? when will we end the security co - operation with Israel to make it absolutely clear that we be not prepared to support a regime that be break international humanitarian law in so many respect ? as the right hon . Member be aware , as soon as the Foreign Secretary take office he order a review of the compliance with international humanitarian law of various export item . follow the review , the Government suspend export licence to Israel in a number of category , assess where there be a clear risk that they might be use to commit or facilitate serious violation of international humanitarian law . as the right hon . Member will also be aware , the question of genocide be not for a Minister to determine at the Dispatch Box . legal expert continue to look at the definition and description of act of war , and they will come forward with their determination over time . rise — Order . I be plan to run this urgent question for only about another 10 minute , so it would be very helpful if question be short , please . over recent day , we have see the power of co - ordinate action when address a most challenging diplomatic , military and humanitarian crisis , yet in 17 month we have not see a parallel in address the challenge over Gaza . what action be the Department take to ensure that there be such a co - ordinate effort , and will the Foreign Secretary call such a summit ? I thank my hon . friend for that suggestion . the UK will certainly continue to work , as it have do , ceaselessly with Israel , the Palestinian Authority , the US and regional partner to build consensus for a post - conflict Gaza governance and security framework that support condition for a permanent and sustainable peace . her request have be hear in the Chamber . what message do the Minister think the Government send about their commitment to international aid in Gaza — and , indeed , anywhere else — by not only cut it to 0 . 3 % , which be its low level this century , but remove the ability of this House to scrutinise that cut or any remain spend by move ministerial responsibility for aid and development from this Chamber to the other place ? I thank the hon . member for her question ; there will be an opportunity in the estimate debate later this week for she to ask further question . however , as I be sure she be aware give her expertise in aid and development and in soft power , it will take some time for the comprehensive spending review to come forward with a picture of the resource implication . I know that she and her party fundamentally support the decision to look at the security of Europe and to try to make that part of the balance in our foreign policy work . I understand that the Minister do not want to give a legal opinion , but be it not clear that ban all supply to Gaza be a breach of the Geneva convention and the Rome statute ? failure to call that out embolden Israel in its collective punishment of all Gazans . will she confirm , as it be miss from her early response , that when the Government finally recognise the palestinian state , it will include not only the west bank and Gaza , but East Jerusalem as its capital ? I thank my hon . friend for all his work as the vice - chair of the Britain - Palestine all - party parliamentary group , and for his ongoing campaigning in this area . to be clear , humanitarian aid should never be contingent on a ceasefire or use as a political tool , and Jerusalem should of course be the share capital . my constituent be horrify at report that the UK Government be not only complicit in israeli atrocity , but have actively and directly participate in the war crime and ethnic cleansing perpetrate by Israel . will the Minister explain to this House what the UK ' s participation and role have be in the israeli genocide and the ongoing atrocity that continue in Gaza and the west bank ? as I have mention , it be not for the Minister here , but for legal expert to determine the definition of genocide . on the role of the UK , the reason I , as the Indo - Pacific Minister , be before the House be that my hon . friend the Minister with responsibility for the middle east be currently engage in conversation and push for a peaceful solution . there can be nothing well than a face - to - face meeting with a Minister of his Majesty ' s Government in the region have those important discussion and push for peace . with almost 20 , 000 palestinian child have be kill , Gaza and its people be in a state of devastation . the use of starvation as a weapon of war be a war crime . the denial of humanitarian aid be a war crime , and it lead to baby freeze to death — an example the Minster give early . what specific action be the Government take with ally to pressure the israeli Government to comply with international law and let aid into Gaza ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work she do before she enter Parliament on aid and support international solution for war - affect area . our work continue with our partner — Israel , the Palestinian Authority , the US and regional partner — to build consensus , because we all want to live in a world where aid be no long necessary and there be a vibrant economy and people have job , school and hospital . that be what the UK be do : redouble our effort for a post - conflict Gaza governance and security framework that support condition for a permanent and sustainable peace . it have be very frustrating to hear about this Government ' s practical inaction in the face of flagrant breach of international law in the siege of Gaza , and I sincerely hope that the Government do not continue down this path of inertia . with that in mind , what step be the Minister take to recognise Palestine as a state immediately as part of the two - state solution base on the 1967 border ? this be surely essential to reinvigorate the peace process and deter extremist seek perpetual conflict in Gaza , the west bank and across the middle east . the hon . member be quite right to describe what feel like a hopeless situation , but I would remind he that over the last few week we have see some ray of sunlight and a few bit of hope as — hopefully — less violence be be perpetrate and more people be go back to their home . however , he be right to push the Government and to ask what more can be do , and that include visit to the region to speak to the interlocutor I have mention and to keep push for peace . of course , many of we in this House want to see progress towards a permanent two - state solution follow the current ceasefire and hostage deal . in December , the Prime Minister announce that the Foreign Secretary would be convene a meeting of partner to support civil society in both Israel and Palestine . what update can the Minister provide to the House on how the UK plan to support the international forum for israeli - palestinian peace ? in the short term , israeli military withdrawal from Gaza will be phase — all party have agree to that — but in time we must see the occupation end , as confidence be rebuild in Gaza and Israel . the Palestinian Authority should play a key role in the future governance and security of Gaza . for the deal to work , we need all party to co - operate , include on future security arrangement that protect both Israelis and Palestinians and allow the safe distribution of aid , in the vision of the two - state solution . despite the appalling abuse of the hostage who be release and the propaganda value make of they , in 42 day the israeli Government have allow 25 , 200 truckload of aid into Gaza , which be enough to sustain the entire population for four month . nonsense ! it be a fact . the concern be that Hamas be now use aid as their major source of income and be seek to control the billion - dollar aid industry there now be in Gaza . what assurance can the Minister give that UK aid will not be use to sustain that terrorist organisation or to control the local population ? if the right hon . Member be read thing online , he need to be careful that they be correct , because while there have be recent arrival of aid , we all know that there be a continue need for aid . we all want to eat fresh food , we all need fresh medication , and we all need water and all those other thing , and the essential aid go in need to be refresh every day . what we can say in this House be that provide access to essential civilian service with that aid be also crucial . I encourage he to widen his source of read on the access of aid into Gaza and the west bank . institute an aid blockade , while get on for 50 , 000 gazan have be kill and there be a polio epidemic , surely look as if civilian deprivation be be use as a weapon of war . what be the Government do about that , and to ensure that the entire fragile ceasefire do not fall apart and the hostage can come home ? I thank my hon . friend for specifically mention polio . we be very pleased to hear that the late polio vaccination roll - out reach 99 % of the child who be target , but we remain gravely concern by the lack of adequate medical care in a wide sense in Gaza . all prisoner detain in Gaza , include medical staff , must be allow full International Committee of the Red Cross access . other than the Minister ' s response to the excellent question from the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , I strongly welcome both the tone and content of the Minister ' s answer . it be clear that there be no justification for the vindictive and counterproductive action of the israeli Government , but they be clearly embolden by the US President . in seek to build international alliance to put pressure on the israeli Government to change their action and stop that vindictive behaviour , what conversation be the Government have to ensure that their view be convey to the United States so they can adopt the same line as we be ? to provide clarification on some of the idea that have be propose , for example on the future of Gaza , we have make it clear that we would oppose any effort to move Palestinians in Gaza to neighbour arab state , and the forced displacement of Palestinians or any reduction in the territory of the Gaza strip be simply not an option . I thank the hon . gentleman for help to keep we on track with what people in the region actually want , and for support around the table all partner who be push for a peaceful deal between the two party . do the Minister agree that , especially at a time of such intense suffering for so many civilian in Gaza , this use of both humanitarian assistance and aid be totally unacceptable and not conducive to a last ceasefire and long - term peace ? my hon . friend be quite right to emphasise the need for the steady inflow of aid . anything else could potentially be a breach of international humanitarian law . what we see in peace process be hiccup : one step forward and two step back . we would be push for all party to see this as a hiccup . I hope to wake up tomorrow morning to the happy news that all be back on track , aid be get in , conversation be happen and that the peaceful future we all want for the two party be become a reality . Hong Kong Democracy Activists to ask the Home Secretary to make a statement on the bounty place on Hong Kong democracy activist in the United Kingdom by the Chinese Communist party and other authority in Hong Kong and China . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question on what I agree be a very serious matter . security be the first duty of Government . as such , we be deeply concerned by the recent bounty place on Hong Kong democracy activist resident here in the UK . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , the Foreign Secretary issue a statement condemn those bounty . as he say at the time , the individual be merely exercise their right to freedom of expression . as the Foreign Secretary have also say , we call on Beijing to repeal the national security law , include its extraterritorial reach . we also call on the Hong Kong authority to end their targeting of individual in the UK and elsewhere for seek to exercise their basic right . minister have raise those concern with the authority during recent visit to both Hong Kong and Beijing . the continued safety of Hong Kongers remain a priority for this Government . it would not be appropriate for I to comment on individual case , but I want to be clear that we will not tolerate any attempt by foreign government to coerce , intimidate , harass or harm their critic overseas , especially here in the UK we have receive assurance from counter - terror policing that the appropriate measure be in place for the individual in question , and we regularly assess potential threat to the UK and use all available lever to counter they . where we identify individual at heighten risk , we be front foot in deploy protective security guidance and other measure as appropriate . anyone — anyone — act to coerce individual in the UK be liable to prosecution under the National Security Act 2023 . to date , there have be six individual charge under the new Act . the Government ' s position be clear : we will protect the right and freedom of all individual in the UK . we will use every available power and tool to uphold the principle we hold dear . this be an incredibly serious issue . the chinese Communist party be an authoritarian regime which have be persecute people in Hong Kong , mainland China and elsewhere for some time . nearly 100 people — that we know about — have be arrest for political reason in Hong Kong since July last year . it be completely unacceptable that harassment and intimidation take place now on british soil . it be a gross infringement of the liberty of the individual concern and it be an affront to british sovereignty . bounty , amount to approximately £ 100 , 000 each , have apparently be place on three people who be in the United Kingdom : Tony Chung , aged 23 ; Carmen Lau , age 30 ; and Chloe Cheung , aged only 17 . all flee Hong Kong owe to persecution . Chloe Cheung be apparently advise by the police to dial 999 if she feel under threat , which strike I as an inadequate response . I understand that poster appear near the home address of two of those people , and that letter be post to their neighbour , offer a reward if they be " deliver to the chinese embassy " . that be completely unacceptable . that can not be tolerate and robust action must be take . I have a couple of question to put , respectfully , to the Security Minister . first , have the chinese ambassador be summon by the Foreign Secretary to the Foreign Office to have it explain to he that this be unacceptable and to ask what be be do to stop it ? my understanding be that no such summon have be issue , which be unacceptable . do that not make clear that give the chinese permission to build a mega - embassy in London be completely inappropriate ? it will simply be use as a pan - european base for chinese spying . be investigation into the perpetrator under way ? why be China not be place into the enhance tier under the foreign influence registration scheme ? surely China should be place into that tier as a matter of urgency . what be the update on the chinese police station operate covertly in the United Kingdom ? I be brief on that as Policing Minister a year or so ago . where be we with those ? finally , the Security Minister say that we will not tolerate this happening . I be sure the whole House will agree with that , but what concrete and tangible action be be take to prevent these outrage ? I be grateful to the shadow Home Secretary for his point and question . let I again , for the avoidance of doubt , be absolutely clear about the Government ' s position . the safety and security of Hong Kongers in the UK be of the upmost importance and the UK will always stand up for the right of the people of Hong Kong . wherever we identify such threat , we will use any and all measure , include through the use of our world - class intelligence service , to mitigate the risk to individual . the shadow Home Secretary ask a number of question , so I shall attempt to respond to they . first , he ask about raise concern with the chinese authority . I can tell he that concern have be raise at every opportunity , include by the Foreign Secretary and the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , who have meet with the family of the individual involve . secondly , he raise a point about the chinese embassy . a final decision on China ' s planning application for a new embassy have yet to be make . as I be sure he will be aware , the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , in her independent , quasi - judicial role , will make the final decision in due course . however , the House should be aware that a joint letter send by the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary to the Planning Inspectorate on 14 January outline that the Home Office , work with the Foreign Office , have consider the full breadth of national security issue in relation to this planning application . in the joint letter , the Foreign Secretary and Home Secretary also make it clear that they would want to see the implementation of suitable mitigation for any public order and national security risk before China be permit to build a new embassy at the Royal Mint Court site . thirdly , the shadow Home Secretary ask about overseas police station . as I be sure he will understand , the police have carefully examine these allegation . we have make clear to the chinese authority that the existence of undeclared site in the UK be completely unacceptable and that their operation must cease , and the chinese authority have confirm that they have be close . fourthly , he ask about FIRS . as he will be aware , I be due to make a statement shortly that will include an update on the implementation of FIRS , so I will not get ahead of myself . however , I will say that FIRS strengthen the resilience of the UK political system against covert foreign influence and provide great assurance on the activity of certain foreign power or entity that be a national security risk . as a result , the UK will be well inform about the nature , scale and extent of foreign influence in this country . as I be sure he will be aware , since come to power in July , we have ensure that more people than ever be now work on FIRS implementation . the case management team have be recruit and be in place in dedicated accommodation , and an IT system have be identify and a contract sign for its delivery . we plan to lay before the House the regulation underpin the scheme shortly ahead of the scheme go live in the summer . I also speak to Chloe Cheung this morning , and I want to reiterate what the shadow Home Secretary have say . I want to ask the Minister whether guidance can be give to police force , not only to give reassurance to Hongkongers who have a bounty on they or threat make against they , but to carry out target hardening and security work to ensure that hongkonger be safe in their own home in the UK and not under threat of abduction . it be a real , serious and live threat , and we need to do more than just tell people to call 999 . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that important point . I can reiterate what I have say specifically in this case , which be that we seek and receive assurance from counter - terror policing that the appropriate measure be in place for the individual in question . on his broad , important point on transnational repression , I can tell my hon . friend and the House that the defend democracy taskforce be review the UK ' s approach to transnational repression to ensure we have a robust and joined - up response across government and law enforcement . the Government will update on the conclusion of that work in due course . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the shadow Home Secretary for raise these appalling incident . I also thank he on behalf of my hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) , whose constituent have be affect and have receive some of these letter . for I , these incident be a reminder of the pernicious threat we all face as the chinese Government try to infiltrate every level of british society . I have be film by a drone while film at a pro - Hong Kong democracy rally in Edinburgh ; member have be sanction by the CCP ; secret police station have operate across the UK , include in Glasgow ; there be the issue of the embassy in London ; and the attempt of chinese company to be involve in our energy provision in a way that , if not mitigate , will threaten our energy security and national security . the list grow long almost daily . we must strengthen and make clear our response to China and stop more of our citizen and brave activist be threaten on british soil . how will the Government bring these bounty hunter to justice ? will they enforce Magnitsky sanction to crack down on those in Hong Kong and Beijing who be responsible for this and every other insidious attack on our freedom and democracy ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for those question . I can reiterate the point I have make previously about how these concern have be raise at every opportunity and about how seriously the UK Government take these matter . we will use all the tool at our disposal to ensure that everybody who live in this United Kingdom can go about their lawful business uninhibite by the activity of those in other country . we take this matter incredibly seriously , and we be work at pace to ensure that every protection be in place . since the launch of the british national overseas visa route for Hongkongers , more than 209 , 000 people have be grant a visa , of whom more than 150 , 000 have arrive in the UK , include in my community in Erewash . I welcome the Government ' s continue support for Hongkongers . what step be the Immigration Minister take to support the integration of those come into the UK via the BNO route ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that important point . he will understand that the BNO route reflect the UK ' s historical and moral commitment to the people of Hong Kong who choose to retain their tie to the UK by take up this status at the point of Hong Kong ' s handover to China in 1997 . I be sure he will be aware that to be eligible for this route , applicant must have BNO status or be the eligible family member of someone with this status . since the route open in January 2021 , close to 220 , 000 visa have be grant to Hongkongers , who be make much - value contribution to community across the UK , include in his constituency . we will work closely with those constituency and local authority area to ensure that all those people feel properly value and support . if my hon . friend have any specific concern , I be happy to meet he to discuss they far . first , I want to say that one of the proud thing I be able to achieve over the past few year be the BNO visa route , which be a correct correction of a mistake make by this House nearly 40 year ago . I be grateful that my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who be in her place as shadow Foreign Secretary a few moment ago , be able to introduce it when she be Home Secretary . the support I receive from the Minister at the time be also gratefully receive . turn to the threat to activist , as someone who be sanction and who occasionally get letter to my home and text message from random Hong Kong and Beijing number , I can only imagine how much more threatening that activity would be if I have connection or relative in Hong Kong and mainland China . will the Minister assure I that he be advertise as widely as possible the role of the counter - terrorism police in fight not just terrorism , but the state threat that be appear before we ? the reality be , we do not expect war today to take its old nature of mass army or invasion . we be instead see a pernicious undermining of the confidence in the british state and the credibility of our ability to protect our citizen and friend , which , in turn , undermine not just our position , but our economy and the freedom of our citizen . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the work he do in government . he raise some important and valid point . let I say , first of all , that the matter of sanctioned member of this House be something that we take incredibly seriously . the Foreign Secretary have personally raise his concern about it at the high level . we will continue to keep it under very close review . the right hon . Member make some other important point . I hope he will join I in welcome the additional resource that the Prime Minister announce the other day for our operational partner and the intelligence service . he will know from his previous service what a hugely important role they fulfil in keep our country safe . he know , too , the seriousness that we attach to these matter , and I look forward to continue to work with he on a cross - party basis to ensure that we maintain our national security . the director general of MI5 have highlight the increase risk of state actor operate in the UK . what step be the Minister take to support MI5 in protect the UK from these intrusion ? this provide we with a very good opportunity to pay tribute as a House — I hope collectively — to the extraordinary work of our operational partner and the security service . by the very nature of their work , they serve in the shadow . it have be an extraordinary pleasure and privilege to work very closely alongside they in recent month . they do difficult work , but they do it incredibly well , and we owe they a debt of gratitude for do it . I hear what the Minister say . as somebody who be sanction by the Chinese Government , who have be pursue by low - level intelligence operative around the world , and who , like other in government elsewhere , have have falsehood about I place in newspaper , I can say that this go on and on . Most of all , for those who have flee here from Hong Kong , what we be see be extraterritorial attack in plain view , yet it seem that , ultimately , nothing ever happen . I have here a copy of a redacted letter about an individual who have be threaten . his neighbour have be offer a bounty if they hand he in to the chinese embassy . I ask how much long will we keep on say all these wonderful word in this House about what we stand for , because when it come to those who need our protection , nothing ever seem to happen . what will the Minister do about the embassy ? wherever China have a super - embassy in the world , we see extraterritorial activity grow massively . will he now reject that and start arrest the people responsible and kick they out of the country ? I know the right hon . Gentleman speak with long experience on these matter . the Government be crystal clear that the activity that he have just describe be not acceptable . we will do everything that we can to prevent it from take place . he refer to the embassy . as I think he know — I know that he have raise specific concern about this previously — a decision on the embassy will be make by the Deputy Prime Minister in her capacity as Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government . I refer he to the letter that have be write jointly by the Home Secretary and the Foreign Secretary , which take into account the full breadth — [ interruption . ] the shadow Home Secretary tut from a sedentary position . I do not know whether he have read the letter , which be available online . he should read it , because it take into consideration the full breadth of national security concern . this government will stand against all those who seek to repress other or behave in the way that he have describe , and use all the tool at our disposal to stop it from happen . across the UK , include in Exeter , where we have a very large and welcome Hongkonger community , we have see rise threat from state actor who seek to influence and intimidate peaceful dissident . will the Minister update the House on how the foreign influence registration scheme will help to tackle these threat ? I do not want to get too far ahead of myself , as I will be make a statement shortly . I can say that we be work at pace to implement the FIR scheme . this be an important tool in the Government ' s armoury . it will strengthen the resilience of the UK political system against covert foreign influence , and it will provide great assurance around the activity of certain foreign power and entity that we know to be a national security risk . we be get on with the work , and we plan to lay the regulation that underpin the scheme in the near future , ahead of it go live in the summer . it be a privilege to represent a substantial community of Hongkongers in Richmond Park . I notice from Hansard that I be last here two month ago to ask the Government about renew report of repression against Hongkongers in this country , yet here we be again and nothing have be do to reassure my constituent about their continued safety and security in this country . I be interested in the Minister ' s response to the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , who talk about review transnational repression . I urge he to give we some more detail about when we in this House , and my constituent in Richmond Park , can expect to hear more about what the Government plan to do about this . the hon . Lady make an important point . let I give she an absolute assurance that we take these matter incredibly seriously . that be why , through the defend democracy taskforce , which I chair , we have continue a process that be initiate by the previous Government to review the issue of transnational repression . for the sake of clarity , I can say to she that any attempt by any foreign Government to coerce , intimidate , harass or harm critic overseas , which undermine our democracy and the rule of law , be completely unacceptable . we have at our disposal now the National Security Act 2023 , which enable law enforcement and the security and intelligence agency to deter , detect and disrupt the full range of modern - day state threat , include action that amount to transnational repression . as I say , the defend democracy taskforce be look very carefully at the issue of transnational repression . there have be a lot of work take place across Government , and we will have more to say about it shortly . Birmingham have a large and grow community of people from Hong Kong . although most be now well settle in the wide community , some of my constituent be fearful about continue monitoring and surveillance , especially if they speak out on human right . will the Minister give I and my constituent an assurance that if they be subject to those utterly unacceptable practice , they will receive protection and support ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and for his representation of his constituent . yes , I can give he that assurance . hopefully , my comment today convey the seriousness that we attach to this particular issue . we work incredibly closely with counter - terrorism policing , police right around the country , operational partner and the intelligence service , and I can absolutely give he the assurance that he seek on behalf of his constituent . I thank the Minister for his answer to our question . the activity of chinese operative on our shore have to stop . no step take thus far have deter the Chinese from overstep the mark on our shore . if those who legally and peacefully oppose China be not safe here , just where be they safe ? put bounty on people ' s head sound like something from a film , but this be real life for those live lawfully in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland right now . what will the Minister do to tell China that the line have be cross and that there will be consequence ? I be grateful , as I always be , to the hon . member . he have a long - stand track record of stand up for repressed minority wherever they might be . clearly , that be particularly relevant in the context of today ' s urgent question . he will have hear my opening remark , in which I refer to the statement that have be issue by the Foreign Secretary specifically condemn the bounty , and in which he call on Beijing to repeal its national security law , include its territorial reach . we take these matter incredibly seriously . we be work with the police and local community and will do everything we can to make sure that people get the support that they deserve . I want to come back to the embassy . I have be contact by several constituent on this matter . at 700 , 000 square foot , it would be China ' s large embassy in Europe . as we know from the incident at the Manchester consulate in 2022 , such an embassy would be contribute to the transnational repression that Hongkongers , Tibetans and the wide chinese diaspora in the UK experience . have the Government make an assessment of whether this new super - embassy would contribute to transnational repression and , if so , on what basis have that assessment be make ? my hon . friend ' s question have be ask by other . I assure he that national security be the override priority for this and , I hope , any Government . we look incredibly carefully at these matter . we will consider every aspect of this application , which ultimately be to be decide on by the Deputy Prime Minister . but as I have say , both the Home Secretary and the Foreign Secretary have write a very clear letter — I invite those member who appear not necessarily to have read it to do so — and I can tell he and the House that the letter cover the full breadth of national security issue in relation to this planning application . the Minister be talk about the national security position in relation to the super - embassy . in January the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary write a letter about the application to the Deputy Prime Minister , who have to make the decision . in the light of the new information that have become available , will the Minister review that letter and take advice on whether the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary should be write to the Deputy Prime Minister to recommend that the planning application be refuse , rather than take all these thing into account ? I understand the concern that the hon . Member have raise . he will understand that I have already refer to the letter that be write back in January . if new evidence come to light that be material to the planning application , no doubt that will be look at very closely both by the Home Secretary and the Foreign Secretary , but I can assure he and the House that we take these matter incredibly seriously and look very closely at they . the letter that be write on 14 January do consider the full breadth of national security implication . I draw the House ' s attention to my role as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Hong Kong . I welcome the Minister ' s recognition that the bounty on the head of these British Hongkongers be for exercise right guarantee to they under the joint declaration . I do not wish to repeat what other right hon . and hon . member have say , but at some point , when minister come to the House again and again to talk about the infiltration of the royal family by chinese agent , the putting of bounty on people ' s head or secret police station , there have to be consequence for the relationship with China . I have a practical question . the fear feel by those who have bounty on their head here be nothing compare with those who remain in Hong Kong who fear that they may not be able to leave . what practical assistance can we give to Hongkongers who have have either their BNO passport seize or other travel document frozen , so that they be able to come to the safety of the United Kingdom ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his work through the APPG and his long - stand interest in this particular matter , and for his practical question . BNO status holder and their family be make significant contribution to our economy and local community . he ask an important question about passport . I can assure he that there be no requirement for a person ' s passport to be valid in order for they to apply to extend leave or for indefinite leave to remain under the BNO route . I know that colleague in the Foreign Office will have hear his point about those who remain in Hong Kong , but I would be happy to discuss it far with he should that be helpful . intimidate pro - democracy Hongkongers live in the UK , place they on a wanted list and circulate reward notice to their neighbour be simply unforgiveable . I be sure that the Minister will agree that no trade deal be worth subvert our value and allow the right of our people to be abuse in such an appalling fashion . what discussion have his Department have directly with the chinese ambassador ? what have the ambassador be tell the consequence will be for those find to be responsible ? what be the status of the current investigation , or do everybody just accept that this matter be now close ? I understand why the hon . Gentleman raise these concern in the way that he do . I hope that he will be reassure that the UK Government , especially the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary , take these matter seriously and take every opportunity to raise these concern at the appropriate level . we will continue to do everything that we can to protect the public in our country . at the recent lunar new year celebration , I meet democracy activist who have have bounty place on they . the fear in the room be palpable . People choose not to attend the event so that they would not be photograph with people who have a bounty on their head . I fear that that chilling effect be already very real . I thank the Minister for confirm that transnational repression be be look at by the defend democracy taskforce , but could he give we a bit more detail on the practical measure that can be put in place now to well protect those in the UK with a bounty on their head , and their family member still in Hong Kong , for whom they be deeply concerned , give the possible knock - on effect for they ? I completely understand my hon . friend ' s point about the fear feel , and the chilling effect that I be certain there will be in a number of community . he have ask I for practical measure ; I gently ask he to be a little patient , because I will have more to say about these matter very soon . Government and Opposition Members have ask the Minister several time whether the chinese ambassador have be summon to be hold to account for these action . this House deserve an answer from the Minister . a lot of these people face kidnap plot . what investigation be be undertake into those ? the right hon . Gentleman will know from his time in government that , in the first instance , these matter will relate to the ambassador in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . I can give he the same assurance that I previously give : the UK Government take these matter incredibly seriously and raise they at every opportunity . he ask about investigation ; the police be work incredibly hard alongside operational partner , and will investigate all these matter , use the appropriate resource , in order to bring perpetrator to justice and ensure that victim be provide with the support that they need and deserve . today I speak with Chloe Cheung , the young person to be sanction under the national security law . I know that she will be pleased to have be at least reference by member on both side of the House . Chloe convey to I the anxiety and concern of the Leeds Hong Kong community , which be not new to I , give the conversation that I have be have with that community , who form a substantial part of my constituency . I understand that the Minister can not comment on specific case , so I have two general question . first , can the Government give a cast - iron guarantee that any future trade deal with China will not compromise the protection that we have offer hongkonger live in the UK ? my second question be about MI5 . will the Government consider facilitate a meeting between MI5 and those Hongkongers who have have a bounty put on their head as a result of the national security law , to ensure that robust protection be in place for those who have be sanction ? my hon . friend be an assiduous constituency MP . he have raise the plight of his constituent previously in this House , and I be grateful to he for do so . on his first point , national security be the first priority of this Government . his second point be probably more a matter for counter - terrorism police and West Yorkshire police , but I have hear what he say , and I will take it away and come back to he with a full response . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for secure the urgent question . I be lucky enough to represent , in my constituency , one of the large Hong Kong community , and they tell I that the propose chinese super - embassy be a chilling prospect for Hongkongers who have move to our country to escape repression in Hong Kong . as we all understand , the decision be with the Deputy Prime Minister at the moment , but surely the Minister agree that it be unconscionable that a foreign state should be allow to massively enhance its operation in this country while it flagrantly conduct extrajudicial act on the street of the UK . do he agree that if permission be give , it would undermine any assurance give that foreign state will be hold to account for hostile action target british resident on british soil ? give the hon . member ' s strong constituency interest , I completely understand why he raise those concern . I hope that he and other hon . member will understand that , from a national security perspective , we take these matter incredibly seriously . there be a limit to what I can say about the specific of this case , but let I put this in a slightly more diplomatic way than I might normally seek to . there seem to be something of a misunderstanding about the circumstance of this case . I give the hon . member an absolute assurance that we look incredibly carefully at these matter , and some of the suggestion that have be make be not correct . a process be under way , and I be legally bind not to interfere with it . no hon . Member would expect I to do so , but I point he again to the very carefully consider letter write by the Home Secretary and the Foreign Secretary , which include reference to the full breadth of national security issue to do with this application . my hon . friend will know that the Joint Committee on Human Rights be conduct an inquiry on the important issue of transnational repression . will he commit to look very carefully at any recommendation that come from that inquiry , so we can ensure that we have the correct measure in place to uphold the fundamental british value of democracy here in the UK and , of course , safeguard our national security ? I know about the Joint Committee on Human Rights inquiry ; in fact , I believe that I be due to give evidence to it . I can absolutely give my hon . friend an assurance that we will look carefully at the finding of that important piece of work . I have write to the Committee Chair about it , and I look forward to meet the Committee and give evidence . I look forward to progress the work through the defend democracy taskforce , so that we can say more about the work against transnational repression that the Government intend to do . I recently meet Jimmy Lai ' s son Sebastien and his legal team , and I be horrified to hear that his UK legal team from Doughty Street Chambers recently face a concerted and co - ordinate campaign against they , include intimidation , surveillance , hack of bank account and rape threat aim at their child . it appear that the chinese state be now undermine our legal system . the Minister have repeat at the Dispatch Box that the Government will take all step to prevent persecution of Hong Kong national in the UK . will he support the call from I and my hon . friend the Member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) for high - profile visit by UK and chinese official in our respective country to be pause until the security situation be resolve ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise the case of Jimmy Lai . I too have meet Sebastien Lai . Jimmy Lai ' s case be a priority for the Government , and we have make that clear in our engagement with China . we call on the Hong Kong authority to end their politically motivated prosecution and immediately release Jimmy Lai . the Prime Minister raise his case with President Xi at the G20 summit in November ; the Foreign Secretary raise it with China ' s Foreign Minister in October ; and the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , raise it with Hong Kong official during her visit to Hong Kong in November . iranian State Threats with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the grow threat to the UK from Iran , and the step that the Government be take to combat this threat . [ hon . member : " welcome back ! " ] it be a pleasure to be back . the threat from Iran sit in the wide context of the grow , diversify and evolve threat that the UK face from malign activity by a number of state . the threat from state have become increasingly interconnect in nature ; the line be blur between domestic and international , online and offline , and state and their proxy . in the last year , the number of state - threat investigation run by MI5 jump by 48 % . that statistic be a stark indication of the increase threat . I turn to Iran . the regime have become increasingly emboldened , and be assert itself more aggressively to advance its objective and undermine our . that be evidence by the fact that direct action against UK target have substantially increase over recent year . the director general of MI5 recently state that since the start of 2022 , the UK have respond to 20 Iran - back plot present potentially lethal threat to british citizen and UK resident . the iranian regime be target dissident , and medium organisation and journalist report on the regime ' s violent oppression . it be also no secret that there be a long - stand pattern of the iranian intelligence service target jewish and israeli people internationally . it be clear that these plot be a conscious strategy of the iranian regime to stifle criticism through intimidation and fear . these threat be unacceptable . they must and will be defend against at every turn . it be testament to our world - lead law enforcement and intelligence service that , through their tireless commitment , so many plot have be thwart . I be sure that the whole House will join I in pay tribute to the brave man and woman of our law enforcement and intelligence agency , who work day in , day out , to keep we safe . to tackle this threat , we must understand it . the iranian intelligence service , which include the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and the Ministry of Intelligence and Security , direct this damaging activity , but often , rather than work directly on UK shore , they use criminal proxy to do their bidding . that help to obfuscate their involvement , while they be safely ensconce in Tehran . we see that in intelligence , but we also see it publicly in the 2023 conviction of the Chechen - bear austrian national who be imprison for conduct surveillance on Iran International ' s UK headquarters . these threat be not only physical in nature . the National Cyber Security Centre have see malicious cyber - activity , conduct by actor who be affiliate with the iranian state , that target a range of state sector , include in the UK . the Government be absolutely committed to ensure that our intelligence and law enforcement agency have the tool that they need to disrupt and degrade the threat that we face from Iran , so I can announce today that we will place the whole of the iranian state , include Iran ' s intelligence service , the IRGC and MOIS , on the enhance tier of the new foreign influence registration scheme . the FIRS be a critical disruptive tool for the UK . this action will mean that those who be direct by Iran to conduct activity in the UK , such as criminal proxy , must register that activity , whatever it be , or face five year in prison . they will face a choice : expose their action to the Government or face jail . the Home Office will lay regulation before Parliament as soon as possible , with a view to have the scheme up and run by the summer . on proscription , as hon . member will know , we do not routinely comment on group that be be consider for proscription , but I assure the House that we do and will continue to keep the list of group consider under constant review . however , it have become increasingly clear that there be challenge inherent in apply our exist counter - terror legislation to state and state - link threat to our national security . that challenge be first raise by the Home Secretary in opposition . she warn of a lack of a comprehensive strategic approach for state threat to mirror that adopt on terrorism , and the specific difficulty of use on state body a proscription mechanism that be design for group such as al - Qaeda . we be progress work at pace to address that challenge , so I can announce today that Jonathan Hall KC have be ask to review the part of our counter - terrorism framework that could be apply to modern - day state threat , such as those from Iran . that include give specific consideration to the design of a proscription mechanism for state and state - link body , provide more flexibility than be offer under the exist power . as the independent reviewer of both state threat legislation and terrorism legislation , Mr Hall be perfectly place to undertake the review and we be grateful to he for agree to provide that advice . let there be no doubt : we be utterly determined to stay ahead of those who threaten our country , and any step that could aid we in that critical endeavour will be consider . the UK be not alone in face such threat . state across the western world be threaten by Iran , so we will work with our ally to well understand , expose and condemn iranian action and bring iranian - link criminal to justice wherever in the world they may be . we regularly collaborate with our five Eyes and european partner to protect our democracy from hostile iranian attack . here at home we be go far too . the National Security Act 2023 , which be support on both side of the House , have give the police new power to target evolve activity . for example , the Act criminalise assist a foreign intelligence service , such as the irgc or MOIS . the maximum penalty for those offence be 14 year in prison , which be the same as the maximum for a proscription offence . I can also announce that training and guidance on state threat activity be now be offer by counter - terrorism police to all 45 territorial police force across the UK . that will mean that when any frontline officer encounter a suspect state threat incident , they will know what to do and what to look for to ensure that our community be keep safe . furthermore , we have recently issue guidance on the National Security Act and how it apply to the UK security profession , include private investigator . that ensure that they be aware of the law and understand where they might be criminally liable if they be work for any foreign power such as Iran . we will also continue to go after the criminal network and enabler that Iran use to carry out its work . the leader of the Zindashti organised crime group — a group frequently use by the iranian regime — have already be sanction . we will explore further sanction against other iranian - link criminal , and the National Crime Agency will target those who assist the irgc and other to launder their money . alongside the recently launch Border Security Command , which strengthen Britain ' s border security and disrupt criminal smuggling gang , I have ask official to consider new way to enforce our robust immigration rule to specifically address threat from Iran . that work will focus on far protect the UK from iranian infiltration , include those who promote iranian interference in the UK . I be clear that our response must be a UK - wide effort , so I welcome the Charity Commission ' s statutory inquiry into both the Islamic Centre of England and the Al - Tawheed Charitable Trust . I have also ask official to review where any iranian interference be be conduct in the UK , and FIRS will shine more light on any undisclosed relationship between the iranian state and UK - base institution and individual . finally , the National Protective Security Authority and counter - terrorism policing will continue to provide protective security advice and support to individual and organisation threaten by the iranian regime and its criminal proxy , include Persian - language medium organisation and their employee . we will also continue to maintain funding for protective security measure to synagogue , jewish community centre and school , ensure that we do all we can to keep our jewish community safe . in a dangerous , volatile world , Britain must lead the way . that mean proudly promote our value and strain every sinew to keep our people safe . the measure I have set out today should reassure the House and the public about our unflinche commitment to those objective . under this government , security will be the foundation on which everything else be build . we will resist attack on our way of life as vigorously as we counter threat to life , whatever their source . we will work relentlessly to root out those intent on cause harm on our street , and we will do whatever it take to protect our country and our democracy . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Security Minister , once again , for his courtesy in give I advance sight of his statement . the House should be in no doubt about how serious the threat pose by Iran be . Iran sponsor terror organisation across the middle east . it be an enthusiastic and significant supporter of Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis in Yemen and it back Shi ' a militia in Iraq and Syria . those organisation kidnap , murder , rape and commit terrorist atrocity . without Iran ' s support , those terror organisation would not be able to operate in the way that they do . Iran therefore bear a heavy burden of responsibility for enable those terrorist actor to perpetrate atrocity . let we not forget that Iran be also an enthusiastic supporter of Putin ' s murderous regime and its invasion of Ukraine . Iran supply drone technology to Russia and more recently , accord to the Foreign Secretary , have supply ballistic missile to Russia , which be be use in furtherance of their illegal and barbaric invasion . there be no question that Iran be a hostile state ; it promote terrorism , undermine freedom and undermine democracy . we have recently see action by Iran on british soil and journalist be harass to the point that one medium organisation have to relocate its activity — thankfully , only temporarily — from London to New York . that be completely unacceptable . we of course support the Government in the listing of Iran in the enhance tier of FIRS , and we will support the relevant statutory instrument when it come before Parliament . I be glad that the National Security Act 2023 be be use , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) — I see he be in his place — for his work in put that Act on the statute book . have welcome this move , I have some question , however , which be essentially in this vein : be merely require registration a strong enough sanction ? I put it to the House that it be not , because under FIRS all that be require be registration , and that alone be not enough . we see our ally , the United States , in 2019 designate the irgc as a terror organisation ; we see our canadian ally do the same just last year . yet I have hear nothing on proscription . the Minister say they do not comment on proscription , but the Home Secretary do comment on it in January 2023 , when in opposition , and in unequivocal term : " the irgc be behave like a terror organisation and must be prescribe as such . " she then say in April 2024 that she would like to make change to the legal architecture . yet it be only today that the Security Minister have announce the review by Jonathan Hall . why have it take seven month to initiate a review , which the now Home Secretary talk about nearly a year ago ? then we come to the view of Jonathan Hall himself , because he say — coincidentally , also in April 2024 — that the National Security Act 2023 be good enough for the purpose of deal with Iran . my question to the Security Minister be this : who be right ? be it the Home Secretary , who in 2023 call for outright proscription ? be it the Home Secretary , who in 2024 call for a change in the law about which nothing appear to have be do until today ? or be it Jonathan Hall , who say also in April 2024 that the National Security Act be sufficient ? there be some confusion about the Government ' s position , which seem to have move over time , so clarification on that would be welcome . why be the Home Secretary not introduce outright proscription , as she say she would do in 2023 ? More need to be do to counter the threat pose by Iran on our shore . the Security Minister hint at this towards the end of his statement . for example , be there more diplomat that we could expel who might be undertake espionage activity or direct some of the activity on british soil ? I see that the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention — my successor as Policing Minister — the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , be in her place . be there more that the police could do to investigate this activity ? be we do enough to provide protective security to potential victim of this activity ? it be , in my view , completely unacceptable that the independent iranian dissident medium group have to move temporarily to New York . we should make sure that no one have to move again as a result of these threat . and be we use sanction enough ? the Security Minister mention this in his statement , but should we be use more sanction against individual in the iranian regime and organisation that be part of the iranian security apparatus ? I think we should , and we should certainly be use the lever at the Home Office ' s disposal , such as visa sanction — that be to say , not issue entry visa to people we suspect of be complicit in these activity , or deny visa to high - rank or other well - connect iranian official to act as a deterrent . the Security Minister talk about the wide context of hostile state threat . he say in the previous urgent question that he would address in this statement the question of whether China should be place in the enhance FIRS tier — indicate dissent . well , he say he would address it , and eagle - eyed member will notice that he do not address it , so I will ask he the question directly now and there will be no avoidance because there be no further statement . will he place China in the enhance tier of FIRS ? will he please confirm that to the House , because I think all of we would support he if he do ? I be grateful to the shadow Home Secretary for the point he have raise , which I will endeavour to work through . first , let I agree with his characterisation of the iranian regime . I hope there be no disagreement among we about that , which be precisely why it be right that we proceed with the measure I have describe today . he be right to mention the National Security Act 2023 , a landmark piece of legislation — I pay tribute to all those who be involve in it , include my predecessor , the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) . it be an incredibly useful tool that be already deliver and make a significant contribution to our national security . it be a mechanism that we will continue to use and also to build on . perhaps the shadow Home Secretary will forgive I if I suggest that he be seek to make a bit of mischief over the issue of proscription — heaven forbid . he will understand , because this be the case when he be a Minister in the Department , that government do not comment on organisation or entity that be be consider for proscription . he know that be a long - stand protocol and will understand very well the reason for it . he would not expect I to break from that long - stand precedent today , and I be not go to . the right hon . Gentleman refer to comment make previously by the Home Secretary . the Home Secretary , when in opposition , absolutely rightly identify the challenge that we be now seek to address in government . I know that there be huge respect for Mr Hall . clearly , he be independent of the Government and supremely well qualified . he be a credible and authoritative figure who be perfectly place to look at the legislative framework and give advice independently to the Home Secretary about how good to proceed , give our concern that the architecture that be in place be well gear towards a terrorist entity — an organisation such as al - Qaeda , for example — than to a state - back entity . I think that be entirely the right way to proceed . we will obviously look very closely at Mr Hall ' s finding . I be very happy to discuss they far with the shadow Home Secretary and other , and of course we will give a further update to the House as soon as possible . the right hon . Gentleman entirely reasonably ask what more could be do . again , as a former Home Office Minister he will completely understand that there be lot of thing that we be do that we be not go to talk about , and he will understand the reason for that , but I can give he the assurance that we be do everything we possibly can to combat the threat that we all know we face . the right hon . Gentleman also make an important point about protective security . again , we take that matter very seriously ; it have be test on numerous occasion in recent year . he will understand that the Home Office work closely with other Government Departments , as well as with the relevant agency and law enforcement , to ensure that we be provide the proper protection for those individual who have be identify as at risk , and that the police and the security service work tirelessly to investigate those threat and to take other step to ensure the safety of those concern . tailor , protective advice be offer to those individual consider to face specific threat and , where necessary , more extensive security option can be put into effect . finally , the shadow Home Secretary — again , slightly mischievously — seek to infer that I have make a commitment in my previous response , but that be not quite the case . he will understand that announcement about FIRS will be make in this House . today ' s announcement specifically relate to the decision that we have take on Iran ; it be specifically about that country , and other announcement that be make with regard to FIRS will be make in due course . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for his statement and also for his unwavering commitment to address the threat pose by the iranian regime here in the UK , particularly to our jewish community . I have hear evidence of the irgc operate on british campus , seek to radicalise our student ; operate charity to pursue its malign aim ; and plot to murder people on Britain ' s street . can the Minister reassure the House that the review of proscription and state threat will be expedite , and that he will do whatever be necessary to protect Britain from this grow threat ? I know that my hon . friend have a long - stand interest in these matter , and I can give he the assurance that he seek . I completely agree that the kind of disruption and interference that he have describe — whether that be in university , on student , or through charity — be completely and utterly unacceptable . he specifically ask I about the review of state threat that the Home Secretary have commission Mr Hall to undertake . he will understand , as will other member , that Mr Hall be extremely efficient and well organise . he understand the importance of this work , and he be get on with it at pace . we be keen to work with he and make sure that he have all the support that he require , and I anticipate that he will be able to complete that work quickly . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for give I advance sight of his statement . the Liberal Democrats of course welcome the step he have outline and recognise the existential threat that Iran now pose not only to Israel but to western democracy , include here in the UK . last year , the head of MI5 , Ken McCallum , lay bare this very serious threat — Iran and other nation such as Russia intensify their effort to interfere in all aspect of british life , include the 20 plot back by the " emboldened " iranian Government , as he describe they , that MI5 have identify in the past three year . of course we welcome the placing of the whole iranian state on the FIRS enhance tier , and that will include Iran ' s revolutionary guard , which be a vital part of the infrastructure that make Iran ' s Government such a threat , act as it do with impunity , supply terrorist group such as Hezbollah , and contribute so much to the tension and violence across the middle east . if we be to achieve last peace , it be also essential to curtail the influence and threat of Iran to the west . we welcome the review by Mr Hall that have be outline . I be glad to hear that the Government continue to keep the list of proscribe group under review , but I hope that a decision on the irgc will come soon rather than later . I would like to hear how we will strengthen sanction regime to start tackle the influence of Iran . the measure announce today be a welcome start , but we stand ready to support sanction , and I hope the Government will go far and fast . I be pleased to see the Government work closely with territorial police force across the United Kingdom to give officer at all level the skill and confidence to identify these threat on our own shore , particularly those to community that remain vulnerable , so I also welcome the reference to the threat face by our jewish community across the country and the rise tension on our street . I hope the Minister can outline how his Department will work with the Community Security Trust and other group to keep all jewish community safe at a time when those abroad seek to undermine our whole country . we must not let they succeed . the hon . member be absolutely right that we must not let they succeed , and we will not . she be also completely right about the existential nature of the threat . the 20 plot that she reference — in the threat lecture by the director general of MI5 towards the end of last year — illustrate the scale of the challenge . I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s support for the specific announcement today on FIRS and for her acknowledgment of the work that we seek to do with Mr Hall in look carefully at the legislative framework . we keep matter relate to proscription under constant review . she be right to mention sanction . I can assure she that we work incredibly closely with partner in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . I be grateful , as I know other member will be , for the hon . Lady ' s reference to the importance of ensure that we work cross - party to protect jewish community around the country . she mention the Community Security Trust . it be an organisation that will be well know to member across this House . it be incredibly professional and deliver massive value to community right around the country , and we will continue to work closely with it . I just want to make one further reference . I speak early about the landmark nature of the National Security Act — it be a measure for which we be truly grateful . I also want to take the opportunity to acknowledge the contribution make by the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) in introduce that landmark piece of legislation — it be not forget . I thank the Minister for his statement and welcome the action that this Government be take to counter the malign influence of Iran on Britain ' s street . give the wide range of threat from hostile state actor , include Iran , it be vital that we take effective action to protect critical national infrastructure from cyber - attack . will the Minister update we on plan announce in the King ' s Speech last year for a new Bill on cyber - resilience and on the other action be take to improve our protection in this area ? my hon . friend raise an important threat vector that be not often comment on . I can tell he that the National Cyber Security Centre assess that Iran be an aggressive and capable cyber - actor , with a number of powerful disruptive and destructive tool at its disposal . as he will understand , the NCSC continue to work closely with Government , industry and international partner to mitigate the cyber - threat from Iran . it be something that we take seriously and that we be work across Government to counter . do the Minister agree that this be at least one area where our co - operation with the United States can continue on the basis of a common mutual interest , give President Trump ' s extremely strong attitude to the abuse carry out by the iranian regime ? be the Minister aware — I think he probably be — that during the previous Parliament the Intelligence and Security Committee complete the classified version of a major report on Iran and all its activity ? do he look forward , like I , to the redaction process be complete soon , so that we can all benefit from the finding of that report ? I be grateful , as always , to the right hon . gentleman because he always add a significant amount of wisdom to proceeding , and I appreciate it . I agree about the importance of our relationship with the United States and that we absolutely have a mutual interest with colleague in the new Administration . the Prime Minister discuss the matter with President Trump on his recent visit to Washington . I be aware of the report by the Intelligence and Security Committee in the previous Parliament that the right hon . Gentleman reference . I write to the Committee this morning outline the measure that I have announce today . I look forward to work closely with the Committee to ensure that we can collectively derive the benefit of the report . I be grateful to he and previous member for the work they have do . I thank the Minister for his reference to money laundering . he will know full well the extent to which Iran use illicit financial network to evade sanction and to fund hostile activity . will the Minister update we on what the Government be do to follow the money and disrupt those money laundering network , particularly those use by proxy and enabler in the UK ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and the important work that he do through the all - party parliamentary group . he be absolutely right that illicit finance fund hostile activity , and this Government take it incredibly seriously . that be why we have appoint Baroness Hodge as the anti - corruption champion and we be in the process of produce an anti - corruption strategy , which the Government intend to publish before the summer recess . that be also why I recently visit the United Arab Emirates , because the nature of this particular challenge require an international response . it be why the UK seek to work with our international partner to do everything we can to tighten the screw on those who would seek to use illicit finance to fund terrorist activity . it be a priority for the Government . we be grateful for the support and work that he do and for the work that Baroness Hodge do , and we will continue it at pace . I pay tribute to the Minister for the work he be do on lead this fight against a hostile state that be do so much against we . I join he in pay tribute not just to Jonathan Hall — he do amazingly good work for we in government and I be sure will be serve the Minister with the same dedication and diligence — but to MI5 , whose leadership under Sir Ken McCallum have begin to put real focus on some area that have previously slip by . do the Minister agree that this be not just a domestic challenge ? I recognise all that he have set out , but we need to be work on this matter with friend and ally . the pressure that we see in Iran today — the failure of the state , the emergence of a civil society and perhaps even , let we hope , the destruction of that dreadful regime that have occupy the country and torture those people for so many year — require a whole - of - Government response . we be feel the effect here in the United Kingdom because the poison be seep out of Tehran . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the work he have do previously and for the support he have provide . I completely agree with what he say about Jonathan Hall . Jonathan Hall be a figure of great integrity and authority . we be lucky to have he , and we benefit hugely from the advice and support that he provide in his own , and very independent , way . I completely agree with what the right hon . Gentleman say about the leadership of MI5 . we do not say a lot about they in this House for understandable reason , but they do extraordinary work and we should be grateful for their service . the right hon . Gentleman be completely right that this be not just a domestic challenge ; it be a challenge that require an international coalition of the willing , and we need to work incredibly closely with our partner — with the US , with our partner in Europe and partner in the region . we be progress that work with colleague in the Foreign Office and as the right hon . Gentleman know — he reflect on the Prime Minister ' s statement yesterday — the Prime Minister personally take it very seriously . these be the most profoundly important matter . we take they incredibly seriously , and we be work across Government and with our partner to address they . I welcome the action that the Minister be take to combat iranian state threat on our street . he say in his statement that there be a long - stand pattern of target jewish and israeli people by the iranian intelligence service . although that be certainly no secret , it be still very concern for the community involve . I absolutely welcome what he say about maintain funding for protective security measure around synagogue , community centre and school , but give the seriousness of the situation , will he set out in more detail how the Government will protect the jewish community in the UK from those and other threat ? my hon . friend make an important point — that concern will be share right across the House . I speak in my opening remark about the importance that we attach to ensure that all community in our country be not just safe but feel as if they be safe . he be absolutely right to reference the importance of ensure that our jewish community feel that they be both properly value and properly protect . he will have hear I refer to the important work of the Community Security Trust , to which we have make a significant financial commitment to support that work . I have write to the trust today , and will meet it , I hope , in the very near future . it do extraordinary work , and we be grateful for that . I be very happy to take this opportunity to reassure he and all member of our continue commitment to work with the trust in the future . I welcome what the Security Minister say about the inclusion of Iran in the enhance tier of FIRS . can he confirm — I hope that the ISC will look at this — that as that system operationalise , it will also cover more complex situation in which it be not as straightforward as somebody take instruction from an organ of that state or from some other organisation , include under FIRS , or indeed situation in which there be no actual instruction or relationship at all but somebody choose to act on that organ ' s behalf ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his previous work . he make an important point , and I can absolutely give he the assurance that he seek . we will have much more to say about that in future , but I hope he recognise that today mark a significant step forward . this measure be introduce by the previous Government , and we think that it be the right way to proceed and be seek to progress it at pace . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . I be confident that he will agree that this House , the Government and the country bear no animosity towards the iranian people , and that it be the action of the iranian state that we be deeply concerned about and take action on . in that regard , will he give I more detail on the training available for police officer , who must often counter the action of the iranian state on our street in constituency around the country ? my hon . friend make two important point . I completely agree with his point about the iranian people . this be not about they ; it be about the target activity of the iranian state . we be absolutely clear that the measure we have announce today be specifically for those state entity , not for the people of Iran . my hon . Friend also make an important point about police training . I confirm in my introductory remark that work by counter - terrorism police , with all our territorial police force right around the country , be already under way . it be absolutely essential that police officer on the beat , wherever they may be , have the training that they need to spot and more effectively understand the risk and threat that some of our citizen be subject to . that be relatively new work ; it be be progress at pace . I be grateful to counter - terrorism police and to police force right around the country for their commitment to it . it have be a privilege and an honour to engage with my many iranian constituent over the year , but I be always fill with horror when they tell I story not only of what be happen to their family and friend back home in Iran — particularly the oppression still suffer by many woman — but of their experience in this country . I very much welcome the measure that the Minister have outline , particularly in relation to police training , which I know will make a big difference to my constituent . one issue that those constituent often raise with I , and which be one of the big for british - Iranians live in this country , be bank . I very much welcome the Minister ' s response to the hon . member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) on money laundering , but british - iranian resident who have be live here for many year often find that their bank account be frozen , which leave they in considerable financial hardship — some of those banking restriction be just impose without discrimination . will reassurance can the Minister give my constituent about their ability to continue bank without restriction ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for those point , and for refer to our work to ensure that , wherever they be in the country , police officer have the requisite knowledge and experience to handle such matter when they encounter they . she make a good , practical point about frozen account and banking arrangement for British - Iranians . let I take that away and come back to she . she will recall that I mention early the work be do , through the defend democracy taskforce , to review the issue of transnational oppression . we be look carefully at what more we can do in that area . I will take away her point about banking , for which I be grateful . it be welcome that the Minister be take such strong action to counter the threat pose by Iran on Britain ' s street , but will he explain how the process to consider a proscription - style framework to tackle the irgc will work ? in opposition , the now Home Secretary rightly do not think that the exist legislative architecture be necessarily appropriate . that be the challenge of terrorist entity such as al - Qaeda , and ensure that a mechanism that might be use to proscribe a state entity will work in the same effective way . in order to seek advice , the Home Secretary have commission Jonathan Hall to look carefully at that . as my hon . friend will have hear I say , Mr Hall be superbly qualified to do that work and be work at pace on it . we will have more to say about it in the near future . I very much welcome the statement . the Minister be absolutely right to underscore the interconnected nature of the threat that we face from malign state actor — which George W . Bush call the " axis of evil . " give recent event in the US — the apparent distancing of Washington from some of its ally , and an alignment , perhaps , with President Putin — and note the strong connection between Tehran and Moscow , do the Minister share my concern that America may not have fully understand the connection between the two , and what conversation will he and his colleague have with the US about the need for it to distance itself entirely and cauterise its relationship , as far as that nexus between Tehran and Moscow be concern ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , as I always be . he always ask challenge question . I completely agree with his point about the interconnected nature of the threat — he be absolutely right in his assessment . he will understand , as a very experienced Member of this House and a former Minister , that I need to choose my word incredibly carefully , so I will say that we place huge emphasis on the importance of the relationship with the United States . that be why the Prime Minister be in Washington recently to meet President Trump . the right hon . Gentleman will understand from his ministerial service the huge importance and value of the operational partnership that we have with the US in the wide context of the five Eyes arrangement . those be valuable linkage from which we benefit hugely . as a relatively new government , we be still invest in those relationship to ensure that we get the most out of they . we will work very closely with our new US ally to target what he rightly describe as the interconnect nature of the threat from country about which he know all about . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . the Israelis have do a huge amount to dismantle Iran ' s influence in the middle east , so will the Minister ensure that we carry on give Israel the support to ensure Iran be not able to re - establish that influence in some area through Hezbollah and Hamas ? will he also ensure that british company be not supply component to Iran through a series of country with which they can trade , and that we be able to achieve our stated objective on that supply chain ? the right hon . Gentleman make important point . he be right to attach importance to our relationship with partner in the middle east . we invest heavily in those relationship , and it be in our national interest to do so . he make a very good point about supply chain . I can give he an assurance on that , but it be a good point and I will think far on it . I welcome the content and nature of the Minister ' s statement . he say that he be consider new way to enforce robust immigration rule specifically to address threat from Iran . can he flesh out what that mean , specifically on the Government ' s stance about proscription of the irgc ? I know he be reluctant to talk about that , but he may sense the frustration among right hon . and hon . member that zero context have be give and the Government be stand behind a veil of obscurity about how that might happen . the Minister speak appropriately about the protection that will , quite rightly , be afford to member of the jewish community in the United Kingdom , and previously , in response to the urgent question , he speak about the protection that will be afford by the UK state to Hongkongers against foreign state actor act against their good interest . will he tell the House what the UK state will do to protect Iranians and Persians live in the UK who be the subject of malign foreign state action against their interest ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman ; there be quite a lot in his question . with regard to proscription , I hope I have give he a sense of the importance we attach to the work that the Home Secretary have commission . it be entirely reasonable for the Government to say that we have look at the exist legislative framework and decide that we need an independent reviewer and some independent advice to guide we about whether proscription be most appropriate for the state threat that we undoubtedly face . I think that be the right way to proceed . I hope he understand that no Government would ever get into a running commentary about proscription , because that be not helpful and undermine the deterrent effect of that tool . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about ensure that , as a Government , we do everything we possibly can to protect Iranians who be currently reside in the UK . I can give he those assurance . hopefully he hear my word early about the work the defend democracy taskforce be progress and about the transnational repression review , which be an important piece of work . the process have take some time , but it should provide the mechanism by which Government can most effectively ensure that people in this country be protect from the kind of threat that we have be discuss today . I know I bear the Minister incessantly with my repetitive call for the proscription of the irgc , so I welcome what he have to say today , particularly about the independent adviser ' s review , which I hope will be rapidly available for he to take action . may I pick up the issue raise by my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) about the need for a whole of Government response ? that do not mean just the Foreign Office as well as the Home Office ; it be wide than that . I could give the Minister a single example or a number of example . successive british government have stand aside while british university have do military research in conjunction with iranian researcher on battlefield armour , range - find laser , drone and fighter jet . will he ensure that the whole of Whitehall bring the focus to this that be require ? the right hon . Gentleman have never bore I — [ interruption . ] I sense , Madam Deputy Speaker , that not everybody in the Chamber would be able to say precisely those same word , but I can say they and look the right hon . gentleman in the eye . he be right to mention Jonathan Hall ' s work . he will know that Jonathan Hall be not an individual who sit on his hand ; he will work at pace . we need to get a move on with this , and I can give the right hon . Gentleman an assurance that we will and that work will progress at rapid pace . the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about wide Government be exactly right . there be an important role for the Department for Education . the defend democracy taskforce that be set up by the previous Government , which I now chair , bring together virtually all the Departments , as well as a number of other operational partner , so that fulcrum point across Government that look at these matter very much have that wide approach , which he be right to raise . I thank the Minister for his statement . it be reassure that the Government be not lose sight of all the other threat that face the United Kingdom and our ally . I praise and endorse his comment about how our relationship with the United States be far deep and more integrate in defence and security , go well beyond any disagreement we have with the present White House and will endure . however , I warn he that while he have be speak , President Putin have make overture to the iranian regime to offer to broker talk between Iran and President Trump . be it now time to draw to the United States ' attention the true nature of their new friend in Moscow ? the hon . Gentleman speak with great wisdom on these matter . I simply say that I completely agree with his analysis of the depth of the relationship with the United States . the truth of the matter be that all our constituent be keep much safe because of the partnership arrangement we have with the United States and other five eye ally . that be the most important security relationship we have , and we need to invest in it for the long term . I can give he an assurance that that be what we will do . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s statement . he will probably be aware that at the start of this year our close ally the United Arab Emirates proscribe 19 organisation for their link to the IRGC and Iran , and that eight of those organisation be headquarter in the UK . will he give a commitment to the House not to take action today , but to review what have be decide by our ally and take action to prevent those organisation from carry out terrorist activity in the United Kingdom ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that important matter . I be in the United Arab Emirates on Friday , so I be well verse on the point he make . I have respond to that issue in the House previously , but I give he an assurance that we will look closely at it , and I be happy to discuss it with he far . I thank the Minister for his very diligent turn at the Dispatch Box this afternoon . plan for neighbourhood with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement about the Government ' s plan for neighbourhood . the defining mission of this Government be deliver economic growth and drive up living standard . in that pursuit we be determined that nowhere be leave behind , because , as every Member of this House will know , when our economy have prosper in the past , not everywhere have benefit . over the past 14 year , decision take by the Conservatives have see too many neighbourhood fall into decline , with the most deprived area suffer more than other . as we deliver our mandate for change , the £ 1 . 5 billion plan for neighbourhood mean that in 75 place across the UK , which for too long have be underestimate and undervalue , this Government will support the delivery of growth and access to opportunity and raise living standard , because when our local neighbourhood thrive the rest of the country thrive too . our new plan for neighbourhood mark the turning of the page on level up . this government will not repeat the mistake of the past : no more micromanage pot of money or pit community against one another to bid for they . the truth be , for all the promise about level up , the Tories ' instinct be to hoard power and hold our economy back . some 75 town be promise funding that do not exist , with inflexible restriction on how that money could be spend . our plan for neighbourhood stand in contrast with the Conservatives ' unfunded and fail approach . unlike the Tories ' list of restrictive option for how town could spend funding , we have double the policy activity that can be consider by neighbourhood board and put community at the heart of make these change . the money will be spend on a broadened set of intervention and have completely different objective , align with the mission that the Prime Minister set out in our plan for change . for example , community can now spend funding on the thing that really matter to they , such as the modernisation of social housing , community - lead housing , skill support , cohesion , childcare and much more . we be make good on commitment to deprive community , give each of the 75 place the certainty that they will receive up to £ 20 million of funding and support over the next decade . in many community , work have already be undertake , and we want to build on that rather than undo it . that be why in each area , we will support new neighbourhood board , bring together resident , local business and grassroots campaigner to draw up and implement a new vision for their area . for the first time , that will include representative from social housing and workplace representative and , in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , the representative in the devolved legislature . in consultation with its community , each board will be give the freedom to decide how to spend the £ 2 million a year to deliver the priority of local people , range from repair to pavement and high street to set up community grocer , co - operative or even neighbourhood watch . these new , broaden objective will give community the tool to make informed decision , with a list of intervention align with this Government ' s central mission . those intervention have already be assess as demonstrate good value for money , so they can be pursue without delay . we have also publish a toolkit outline the wide - range power available to community and local authority in England , with similar power for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland to come follow consultation with the devolved government . this be about give community autonomy and about people design and deliver the change that they want to see . our new approach put community at the heart of delivery , which be why we have introduce three new objective to guide the plan . first , there be the importance of build thrive place . People take immense pride in their local area , but too many of our high street and estate have be neglect and leave behind . this funding can be use to ensure that town centre and neighbourhood well reflect the need of their community , give resident a say in how they be design . it will deliver change that people can see and identify with , so that at the end of this Parliament , people can look out from their doorstep and see a well neighbourhood . we also want the UK to be a country with world - class public service that work for everyone , which be why this objective will support service that be accessible , responsive and tailor to local need , because invest in young people ' s future and in preventive measure now will ease pressure on service over the long term . the second aim be to build strong community . we want to empower neighbourhood board to tackle the root cause of disengagement and division and to bring people together so that they can feel proud of their area and safe in their neighbourhood to restore a collective sense of belong to their community . that be about understand how division be not only an impediment to growth , but a barrier to drive up living standard . our third aim be to empower people to take back control . everybody should be in the drive seat of their own life and should feel in control of their future , but that can feel like a distant prospect when people be live from payslip to payslip , stick on a waiting list or just not listen to . it be quite right that people want to have a say over the future of their community , with enough to get by and the opportunity to make the most of their life . we want to make sure that child have the good start in life and that adult can live the life that they want . I will finish by talk about the inspiration for this programme , which can be trace back through six decade of community politic . we have draw enormously from John Prescott and the noble Baroness Armstrong ' s new deal for community , which provide the stability of long - term funding back by the support of central Government . like they , our aspiration be to empower local people to drive the renewal of their neighbourhood and to deliver the transformational change that they want to see . this announcement also have its origin in the community development policy of Wilson and Callaghan , who draw the link between social deprivation and social division , and now we be look to the future . the Prime Minister have be clear that the task before we require a decade of national renewal , and our country have all the necessary raw ingredient , untapped talent and potential across every town , city , village and estate , but we also have people without enough to get by and place and public service that have be hollow out . address that be the central driver of our plan for neighbourhood , and that be just the start . we have already begin to deliver a real shift of power , align with the Deputy Prime Minister ' s broad work on devolution , make work pay , fix the foundation of local government and build decent home , but this be also a down payment on what we know that community can achieve . we will give people and place the resource and power that they need to succeed . today ' s announcement be a response to anyone in these 75 place who want to see change . it send a message that the full force of Government will be there to help they to deliver it , and that be why I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . much in this statement build on the work of the previous Government , and we share the new Government ' s ambition for the growth and renewal of our neighbourhood and high street , which be so fundamental to our constituent ' quality of life . as the Minister know , there be a history behind this statement that link back to the desire of all our constituent to have a proper say in the development of their home area . in a country that be as grossly centralise , by democratic standard , as the UK , that local voice be vital . EU cohesion fund , which be the predecessor of the UK share prosperity fund , be directly accountable to both the UK Government and local representative . in the short timeframe in which the previous Government ' s levelling - up strategy be in effect , it seek to bring to bear a wide variety of national resource on exactly the challenge that the Minister refer to in his statement . there be a £ 2 . 6 billion fund allocate for regeneration and community ; the £ 4 . 8 billion levelling - up fund , which be specifically design to support treasured asset such as pub and theatre , where there be strong community support ; and the £ 1 . 5 billion long - term plan for tax . we know that local leader welcome that investment , and many member across the House speak very warmly of the benefit to their constituent , so the challenge to the Government today be to set out how this very small and limited project sit against that much broad levelling - up ambition and , in particular , where it sit against the £ 3 . 6 billion town fund set out under the previous Government . the House will acknowledge that this statement come at a time when this Government ' s financial decision be bear down very heavily on our community . the massive rise in national insurance contribution , the increase in business rate on pub , retail business and hospitality , the change to business property relief and the multibillion - pound funding gap that open up in council budget as a result of the Government ' s Budget last October all weigh very heavily in the balance against this modest announcement . that leave aside the impact of the loss of thing such as the rural service grant and the community ownership fund , which be specifically target at deliver support to community that need it . while we welcome this rebadging and rehash of a scheme that we progress when we be in office and its allocation to largely the same list of recipient , we have some question to put to the Minister . the first be about the accountability of the propose neighbourhood board . it be a significant concern that the Minister find time to say that the board will include trade union representative , but not to mention the democratically elect representative of those local community — a trend that sit alongside the change in the propose planning White Paper . local democracy be vital if these board be to work effectively . the second question be about the lack of a clear purpose for these resource . while it sound like a positive thing to broaden the range of area in which they can be spend , it be a serious concern that the Government again choose refurbishment and modernisation of social housing , which be already allocate for in other area of local government funding . it beg the question of whether these fund will , in fact , go towards make up shortfall that the Budget create in other area of government spending . finally , there be real concern that broaden the criterion , and choose to use generalised national statistic rather than local understanding of need to decide how to allocate funding , will mean that the resource be allocate in a way that simply do not reflect need and local circumstance . a bidding process allow local authority — which lead and represent their area , and can identify particular need — to come forward to Government and present a plan . the process of allocation that be be suggest create a serious risk that those who can do the most to regenerate and benefit our high street and community will lose out in favour of those who be simply able to meet the criterion of Whitehall box - tick . I be grateful to the Opposition spokesperson for those question . he be right to say that this plan build on the previous long - term plan for town commitment , which be why we think it prudent to retain the same recipient area . that promise have be make , and it should be keep . however , when I enter the Department on my first day in government , and talk to civil servant , it be astonishing to find out that the programme — a £ 1 . 5 billion commitment make by the previous Government — be unfunded . it be fund through a reserve that have be spend three time over . that be simply no way to run a country . I be very pleased that we have be able to keep that commitment to those community , because goodness know there would have be disappointment have we not . the hon . Gentleman talk about the plan ' s place in the wide environment . of course , we commit to the transition year of share prosperity funding in the Budget . we be now in a spending review period , and as I say in my statement , we be commit to get community the tool and resource that they need in order to shape place . to respond to the hon . Gentleman ' s question on accountability , of course local councillor be still involved . we be talk about change to broaden neighbourhood board . we want local councillor to be involve ; we would like local member of Parliament to be involve ; and in the area where they exist , we would like devolve representative to be involve . however , we think that the voice of people who work in the community be also valuable , and I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman do not . the hon . Gentleman talk about a lack of clear purpose . I think this be where we be in different space , because I believe in freedom to make decision locally . I believe that expertise be hold locally ; the wisdom about community across this country be hold by the local community , rather than the Minister . that might perhaps be revelatory for a Minister to say . I believe that change a community — whether through what we call local growth , level up , or any of the other thing that it have be call over the past 60 year — be an inside job , well do by local community , and that my role as Minister and our role as Government be to get community the tool and resource that they need . we differ on that point . even the previous Government move away from their affection for the bidding process by the end of the last Parliament . they understand that it do not work — that a debilitate beauty parade that pit community against each other be not a very good way of get money to those community . however , another point of difference be that I believe in a long - term allocative settlement that be more flexible and guide by people locally , whereas the opposition believe in short - term bidding and central prescription . value for money . I believe that the good value for money be when community have the tool and resource to shape place themselves , accord to their criterion , rather than mine . that be how we drive change . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the Minister for the statement . a number of member have be on council , and some of we still serve on they . if we be all honest , the unfortunate reality be that the competitive tendering process do pit some council against each other , include deprive council . it be right that we move away from that , and away from the sticking - plaster politic that we have see over the past few year . I want to press the Minister to give we a bit more of an understanding of how the neighbourhood board will be set up and how they will function . will there be a clear recruitment process to get the local buy - in that be critical ? as the Minister say , it be important that we bring community along with we . if there be conflict between local authority and the board — for example , over a regeneration plan — will one have the power to veto the other , and will the Department have oversight , so that it can intervene , should there be serious concern about intervention and operation ? the Minister say that it be important for community to have a say in their future , so be the Department look at the community right to buy ? I declare my interest as a Labour and Co - operative MP . through the community right to buy , we have see local pub , library , leisure centre and so much more saved . when can we expect to see that new light , and when will that legislation come forward ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee for those question . I agree with what she say about competitive tendering ; the quid pro quo be that the Government of the day have to be very clear about how allocation be make . my commitment be that we will always be very transparent about how the decision be make , and I know that the Select Committee will take a strong interest in that . turn to the establishment of board , I suspect that one of the theme of discussion over the next few minute will be our not want to hold back area that be make great progress . area with establish board may take advantage of the opportunity to add more people to those board , and may move on at pace , while other area may want to treat this moment as a chance to reboot their board . either way , the basic principle be that the local authority will be the ring - holder , support by the local Member of Parliament , but once that board have get go , we expect it to be in leadership . we do not want board to have significant tension with their council , and we would expect any tension to be resolve in the usual way , but those board will have the power to get on with the job . the community right to buy be a component of the White Paper . we be look forward to deliver the community right to buy , because we know that it would be greatly value , whether we be talk about buy pub or other building in community . we be very keen on that , and as a fellow Labour and Co - op MP , I be particularly keen on it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats welcome this plan to work with community to improve local amenity and engagement in the process . we also welcome the move away from local council area bid against each other , and towards a more objective approach , base , for example , on index of multiple deprivation . in our opinion and my opinion , the previous system divisively pit one area against another in a way that do damage to more area than it help . the Liberal Democrats be commit to allow community to take action to improve their area . give sufficient power and resource , local authority can play a major role in respond to climate and nature emergency , whether through the insulation of home , enhance green space or improve air quality . however , the Conservative Government force council to do more and more with less and less , plunge many into financial crisis . as a result , council have go bankrupt around the country , and many be feel the strain of cut to public service and a lack of investment in community asset . no community can flourish without proper power and resource , so we welcome the plan ' s commitment to ensure that new neighbourhood board work with local authority to implement new funding . however , we urge the Government to confirm that local authority will be fund and resource substantially to take on this additional workload . the financial burden on council have force many to make impossible choice on funding . in my council of Somerset , for example , nearly 70 % of council tax receipt go on care for vulnerable adult and child , which many believe should be a national responsibility . until we have a national solution to the care crisis , council will continue to be hold back from reach their full potential . we welcome the Government ' s commitment to invest in community - lead improvement . we also welcome the new neighbourhood board , which should provide community engagement throughout the process . we urge the Government to reconsider their decision to remove district council - level scrutiny from the planning process . where whitehall take power and decision out of the hand of local councillor , it also take decision out of the hand of local people . that be undemocratic and will ultimately slow up the process of get the home that we need . we also call on the Government to confirm that nature and climate specialist will be include on the neighbourhood board . finally , can I ask the Minister — Order . I remind the hon . member that there be a time limit . I will give he one more sentence . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . will the Secretary of State review the list of 75 town , so that other can be include in future ? finally , will the Government consider roll the plan into neighbourhood plan , so that they be give more statutory effect when planning decision be make ? I be grateful for those question . on the point about climate and nature , gain consent from the community often start with buy - in , and localise climate intervention through these programme may well be a good way to do that . on the local authority point , the Budget be the first step in rebuild local authority finance , which will take time . as the hon . Member say , resolution on social care will take some of the pressure off , too . on planning , local plan be so important , and not enough of the country be cover by they . local people rightly want a say , and the good way to ensure that be through the local plan process . on the 75 town point , the one that be previously announce be the one for which we have honour commitment , but as he say , there may be scope to go far in the future . I can not run ahead of the spending review , but if we can prove that thing have work in these 75 town , there will be a strong case to do they elsewhere . I thank the Minister for his statement . the previous Government admit that they think that Labour ' s formula , which provide money to deprived urban area , " need to be undo " , so I welcome this Government ' s commitment to tackle deprivation , which be much - need . as a local authority area , Middlesbrough have the low wage in the region and some of the bad statistic for deprivation in the qualifying metric , so it be regrettable that no community in my constituency of Middlesbrough and Thornaby East have qualify for the long - term plan for town , which be a legacy of the predecessor Government ' s fail levelling - up agenda . I fully understand the rationale , in term of the parameter and population , and the need to follow through on promise previously make , but will the Minister confirm the step that he be take to move on from the Conservatives ' pork barrel politic , and provide assurance that the Government ' s determination be to invest in the deprived urban area not serve in today ' s announcement ? I be grateful for the chance to reiterate that we want to honour the commitment make to those 75 community , because we feel that it be the decent thing to do . our commitment , which I have give at the Dispatch Box previously , be that in the future we will have allocative formula base on deprivation and need , and we will go where the data say we should . too often in the past Ministers seek to go where the politic be , but that do not serve those community or the country , and we will do much well in the future . the Minister will understand that in the royal town of Sutton Coldfield , we be delighted to receive the town fund money from the last government , and we be grateful to he for — in his word — honour that commitment from the Dispatch Box . may I also thank he for the courtesy he have show in the discussion that he and I have have about this ? as I have say to he before , I hope that he will pay a state visit to the royal town of Sutton Coldfield , where we can show he not only the delight of the town , but how well we will ensure that this taxpayer ' money be spend . I be grateful for that , and for the conversation that I have have with the right hon . Gentleman . the difference between his area and the other 74 be that in his case , the connection be with a town council , rather than a local authority . as he know , I be a great proponent of town and parish council . he bear a heavy weight as a result , but we want to demonstrate that this be a model that work and could be use again in the future . I look forward to work with he , and I will of course pay that visit . the two town in my constituency be delighted to be include on the list of town that will receive this long - term funding — such certainty have be absent from previous financial commitment — but I be particularly interested in the Government ' s arrangement for the future . under the previous arrangement for town board deal , decision have be make about put money into part of project that have be leave to suffer delay and incur extra cost ; in my case , money that have be intend for the library be reallocate . can my hon . friend reassure my constituent that there will be an opportunity to review the Government ' s arrangement for the new neighbourhood board ? yes : now be the time to review those board , and we will be ask for that to be do by the end of next month . there will then be time for the board to formulate plan over the next few month , and to put in write how the money will be use to make that commitment to , and contract with , the local community . I hope that community become involved in those conversation — indeed , I be sure that they will — so that the plan reflect what local people want . the Minister refer to his support for parish and town council . can he explain a little more about the neighbourhood board ? will their geographical footprint be similar to that of parish and town council in the 75 area concern ? if so , would it not have be well to give this role to elect body , such as parish and town council , rather than to unelecte new board ? the elect body that will be the fundholder will be a local authority . as I have say , in only one case do the arrangement differ from those for the other council , apart from parish and town council . as for the boundary , they reflect the human rather than the political geography ; there may or may not be point of alignment . the good model will have a local political as well as a local community say — I think that that balance can be find — but if there be concern about boundary , now be a very short moment in which that could be revisit . there be not much flexibility to change the scope completely , but if sensible tweak can be make , we will of course have the necessary conversation . it be welcome that today ' s plan finally deliver on the unmet promise make to community through the last government ' s long - term plan for town , but since the selection methodology in that plan be deliver , Pendleton in Salford have sadly lose its only leisure centre and pool to fire , which have leave a community who be already starve of leisure facility with nothing at all . will the Minister meet I to discuss what help the Government can give Salford to ensure that this vital facility be rebuild as a matter of urgency ? I be very sad to hear about the fire , and I will of course be happy to have that meeting . the Liberal Democrats welcome the plan ' s commitment to social housing and to ensure that development be community - lead . however , it be disappointing that Somerset will not feel the benefit , give that demand for social housing in Glastonbury and Somerton , and across the county , vastly outweigh supply . can the Minister confirm whether there be plan to extend the plan to allocate further funding , in addition to the 75 local authority confirm today ? the hon . Lady know that I can not run ahead of the spending review . other fund be available , include through the enhanced local government settlement and the share prosperity fund , but if we can prove that this be an effective model , there may be scope in the future to extend it . for all the talk of level up from the Conservatives , I gently remind they of my Hasting and Rye constituent ' experience of level up : £ 150 , 000 of taxpayer ' money be give to a conservative donor to improve Hastings town centre , and all we have leave as a result be a board - up shop . I really welcome the Minister ' s commitment of £ 20 million for Hastings , which will be spend in a responsible way , base on the priority of my constituent , whether that be break pavement , broken bus shelter or buy back important community asset , from pub to close concert venue — I know there be a lot of concern in Hastings about St Mary in the Castle . can he explain how resident of Hastings can feed into the process for how the money be spend ? I be aware of the history that my hon . friend mention . I hope that this will be a reboot moment for Hastings and a chance to get some of the benefit that the community undoubtedly want to see . the plan will be to get a board in place quickly , and then to develop a neighbourhood plan . I exhort the board to engage with its community as well as possible , and there be some brilliant example . Chesterfield and Arbroath spring to mind , and I be sure those community will be generous in share their experience of how to do it well . the Minister and I have a very consensual exchange yesterday at question , and he know that Arbroath have be exceptional in this endeavour . can he assure I that where community have good structure , those structure will be keep ? the funding be welcome , but it be fair to say that there have be some disappointment in area such as Perth and Dunfermline . there have also be some disappointment about the promise that be not keep by those who back our leave the EU on the lifeline funding that come from the European Union . can he give we some of his thought on how we match some of that up ? finally , will he assure we that devolution will absolutely be respect in any plan go forward ? as I say yesterday , it be impossible in the church hall not to be strike by the extent of the consultation in Arbroath , which be a model for elsewhere . as the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have say , we see devolution through the prism of want to reset our relationship with the devolved government . I have have those conversation , as the hon . Gentleman may know , and I will continue to do so . have representative of the devolve legislature involve in the board be a positive step . we do not want to hold back progress where area have make significant progress , so they should move at pace . I believe that we will be able to make the relatively minor tweak that be need in their case and move forward at great pace . with regard to previous structural fund , we be able to deliver what we could in the Budget , and what be come forward will be look at as part of the spending review . I thank the Minister for his statement and welcome the overall thrust of this important area of policy , which put community at the heart of regeneration and investment . I have a couple of question for the Minister . I appreciate that reading have unfortunately miss out this time around , and I hope we be successful in the future . could he explain how successful initiative , such as high street action zone , will be incorporate into this sort of work ? similarly , how will the Government incorporate asset of community value and other local matter that have help community to rebuild and re - energise their area ? that be a really important point . the support provide previously be well mean but not very efficient . what we have see over recent year be an accumulation of various different strand of level - up funding , which be less than the sum of its part . one of the challenge be that we lose great insight , so we will absolutely draw on the good initiative — whether that be high street accelerator , community ownership or funding asset of community value — and share that insight with not just those win 75 recipient , but the rest of the country . Torbay be the premier resort in the United Kingdom , but behind our palm tree and victorian villa be the most deprived council in the west of England , so it be a truly welcome that Torbay be one of these 75 neighbourhood . sadly , we have have a pregnant pause while the new Government walk through the wreckage of the finance leave by the previous Conservative Government , but it be very welcome that this money be come to bear . it be also really hearten that it will be over a number of year , so we can have confidence about how to support our community . however , I and my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) be particularly concerned about the result pregnant pause , because we have oven - ready opportunity for our community . I have already write to the Minister on this issue , but be it possible that , after conversation with he , we could pre - spend rather than have even more month of delay in implement the change we all desperately want for our local community ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his forbearance and for his consistent lobbying . I want to be very clear that the programme start from 2026 , and that can not be bring forward . local authority do have the flexibility to spend early , understand that the money be come , but that would of course be a decision for they to take locally . I thank the Minister and his Department for today ' s announcement and for the commitment to Leigh in the plan for neighbourhood . as he know , Leigh be home to some amazing community organisation and business that be work hard to improve our area , but they have be do it alone for too long . today ' s cash boost for Leigh change that . do he agree that this plan mark the first step towards a new partnership in which community be support and empower to shape the place they call home ? I know of Leigh ' s great creativity , not least at the Spinners Mill , which my hon . Friend use to run . from our perspective , we want this to be a reset of the way in which central Government work with local community to unleash that creativity . as I have say , I think this be see by the Opposition as revelatory , but I believe the people of Leigh , rather than I , should make decision about the future of Leigh . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . it be indeed very welcome in Northern Ireland , where it affect Coleraine and Londonderry in my patch . the 10 - year period be particularly welcome as it allow for planning and for proposal to be put in place . can he assure we that , towards the end of this Parliament , we will review the plan to see if it be possible to develop it and to become very focused on try to get benefit for our constituent ? yes , this be a really important point . plan do take time to gear up , and there may not be a uniform spend of exactly £ 2 million every year . there may be some flexibility , which be why I think such a length of time be valuable . however , after the fourth year we will do a stocktake , because we do not want place spin their wheel and build up a huge backlog of funding . plan have to be realistic , so by the end of this Parliament , exactly as the hon . Member say , we will have a full stocktake . I be grateful to the Minister for this very positive statement . I be naturally delighted that my home town of Thetford in South West Norfolk will receive a share of this money . it be really go to help unlock Thetford ' s potential , but after 14 year of so much decline , what measure will be take to ensure that this money be spend as quickly as possible and make as much of a difference as possible in the short term ? we will work closely with Thetford and all the other recipient so that they have the good possible insight about what be effective and about some of the good practice elsewhere . we have develop , as part of the prospectus , a series of pre - approve intervention , so Thetford could pick from among those know that they have already be assess as represent value for money . such information and insight should be there to build a really effective plan really quite quickly . the plan for neighbour - hood prospectus publish on the website early today talk about end the " Whitehall know good " culture . with that in mind , would the Minister look at the current allocation of 75 % capital and 25 % revenue , and if that split need to be change in a local area , would he consider do that ? in his statement , he say that this " be about give community autonomy and about people design and deliver the change that they want to see . " I be sure that all community in the UK would wish to have that autonomy , so how could the principle of neighbourhood board be roll out , even if the funding be not there to begin with ? absolutely , we would want to see those board meet . I know from other area where they have anticipate and set up their board early that they have ask they to do other thing as well , which I think be a really good sign of mature partnership . on the revenue - capital split , I be afraid there be no flexibility , although that point be hear . as part of the evaluation we will see what be effective , but I be afraid that what have be agree in the Budget be what be agree . I commend my hon . friend for today ' s statement and wholly welcome the up to £ 20 million for the town of Coatbridge in my constituency . I be grateful to he for take the time last year to speak to I about the former town fund . Coatbridge be earmark for levelling - up funding , but that be put at risk by the previous Government announce the plan , but cynically — yet perhaps unsurprisingly — fail to identify how they would fund they . do my hon . friend agree that , by deliver this funding , it be this Government who be support regeneration in Coatbridge , put local people and local business at the heart of decision make to provide much - need job and growth ? yes , absolutely . when my hon . friend come to visit I in my office , I feel that he and his colleague have come rather as wallet inspector and that I be not go to get away with the shirt on my back . I have to be candid : as I say then , I really do not know whether we would be able to find the funding to deliver the programme , which be why I be overjoyed that we have . those promise be make and need to be keep , for the people of Coatbridge and beyond . I rise to thank the Minister for his commitment and his assurance today , not least on behalf of the people of Peterhead , which be in my constituency . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) ask he about the geographical footprint of the new body . I want to press he on that , because it be important to be clear whether there would be scope within the reorganisation of the board to extend their footprint . be he able to comment on that please ? yes , that be not an unfamiliar ask that colleague have make . as I have say , we could not support boundary change that really change the nature of an area — if we go up to a population of 1 million people , it would cease to be the programme it be . however , if there be common - sense change that could be make , we will look at they very closely . now would be a very good moment for a local authority and a local MP to come forward with such an idea . like the Minister , I be proud to be a Labour and Co - operative MP . today ' s announcement be a great win for our movement , put power where it belong : in our community . in area such as mine , community can be find in our proud grassroots sport team . will the Minister update we on what more can be do to empower fan to own and shape their local sport team ? we be very enthusiastic about fan ownership and we be , through the fan - lead review , take forward many thing relate to football . the community ownership fund have its final round just before Christmas , which in many case have a sporting element to it . the share prosperity fund , through the local authority , can support sport team . we understand that sport team , facility and field be a huge part of local community . we be committed to ensure that local community have control and the security of know that they will be there at the heart of their community . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and the vision that will truly transform community and constituency such as mine . I be make up that Kirkby will get a massive funding boost under the Government ' s plan . Knowsley be the second - most deprived area in the country , yet community across the constituency never stop work to improve their home . centre 63 , in the heart of Kirkby , be a vital youth and community hub that be open by my illustrious predecessor , Harold Wilson , who be mention in the Minister ' s statement . I invite the Minister to meet I to discuss how we could give Knowsley more power , and the funding and resource we need , to shape the place that we call home . I absolutely support the point my hon . friend make . I know the people of Knowsley be very proud of the community that make up Knowsley . I be very pleased to visit recently and to talk to my hon . friend and her local authority , which really have a strong sense of local purpose . I would be very happy to have similar conversation about the plan to support Kirkby and much more . I thank the Minister for today ' s statement and announcement , which be incredibly welcome . I be most grateful , not least because my constituency of West Dunbartonshire and my home town of Clydebank be set to receive up to £ 20 million of funding . I meet the Minister last year on this matter , too . can he confirm that Clydebank will decide how good to use the funding to transform its town centre to ensure the investment have maximum transformational impact on my community , and that this demonstrate that this UK Labour Government be deliver for West Dunbartonshire and for Scotland ? I totally agree . my hon . friend have tell I of the proud sense of identity in his community and the desire for the tool to enable they to shape their community , which be what we be do through this programme . I know he will be a proud champion of get resident ' voice into those local plan to ensure they be as effective as possible . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s announcement of the plan for neighbourhood , which replace the unfunded promise leave by the previous Government . I welcome in particular the fact that it give community far more agency to decide how the money be spend . however , I be sure the Minister will appreciate that other community across the country will have their nose press against the proverbial shop window , include Dartford , where project such as the Swanscombe pavilion be in dire need of funding to bring they back to life . it have be great to discuss that particular project with the Minister . could he give an indication of how we might build on this great programme throughout the Parliament to provide investment for critical project outside the designate 75 place ? my hon . friend succinctly express the strength of feeling from colleague today . as I say , we be go into a spending review phase , which may be a good moment for those conversation . I enjoy the conversation I have with he on the Swanscombe pavilion , and will look to support he in whatever way we can to try to find a solution . for the final question , I call John Slinger . I know that the list of area be the one the Minister inherit . he give a truly brilliant statement , which speak of a strong community , of pride in place and of the need for thrive community . I pay tribute to the Minister for visit Rugby , where he do a walk - around and hold a roundtable with I , and see that our Labour borough councillor — my colleague — be work hard to achieve all those thing , as well as a vibrant community and business sector . I hope the Minister will work with they so that they can learn some of the lesson from this absolutely superb plan for neighbourhood go forward . I greatly enjoy my visit to Rugby . it take I more than an hour to realise that the great ovoid - shape public art installation be rugby ball , hence the rugby pun . it be , perhaps , not my sharp day . however , I really enjoy the session we have with local business and community and the local authority . it be impossible not to come away with the sense that the community of Rugby really have a grip of where it want to go in the future . as a Government and a Department , our job be to give that community the tool and resource to make that a reality . housing Estates Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for a right to manage for freeholder on unadopted private or mixed - use housing estate ; to set minimum standard for public amenity on new housing estate ; to make provision about the enforcement of those standard ; to make provision about the adoption by local authority of public amenity on new housing estate ; and for connected purpose . in perhaps less parliamentarily precise language , but in word that might be a bit more relatable for those watch at home , the Bill will make sure we be finally tackle the fleecehold stealth tax that be affect far too many new homeowner on new estate right across the country . I be incredibly proud to be here as a member of a party that recognise , in some of the good tradition of this country , the importance of a secure home in which people can build stable and prosperous life . indeed , as a Labour MP , I be probably contractually obligate to remind the House that one of the defining mission of this Labour Government be to get Britain build again . when it come to the state of the housing market that we inherit , it be clear that far too much simply be not work for far too many people . that may be due to the following : the broken state of the house supply system , which price far too many people out of home ownership ; the lack of affordable social rent home or insecure private rent sector accommodation , create precariousness for family who just should not have to face that in their life ; or the broken leasehold system , on which we announce some really important measure yesterday that I know many member across the House will have welcome . today , I wish to address a slightly less appreciated issue , but one that be no less important . fleecehold housing estate be really grow right across the country . fleecehold arise when home be not adopt by local authority , leave new occupant expose to fleecehold stealth taxis and pay money to a private management company for service that other receive as part of their council tax . they be on the hook to an estate management company , which be often unaccountable to they and often seek to exploit they with every available power . I know from lot of conversation that I have have with other member across the House that I be far from alone in experience this issue . it be grow in my constituency , and also right across the country . indeed , when I be away on holiday , I can not escape it either . over recess , I be up in Scotland visit my family . a family friend take I to one side to raise the issue that they have have , which be quite typical . their estate have go unadopted for many year . there be no end in sight to this situation . in the meantime , they be pay hundred of pound each year for basic service that the rest of their neighbour be receive through their council tax . but that be not the bad of it . when they miss one bill , which have go up quite considerably at a week ' s notice , rather than give they any tolerance , their estate management company use the contractual power that it have to go straight to their mortgage lender to have the amount add to that family ' s mortgage and to drive a wreck ball through their credit score in the process . this injustice can not be allow to persist , but for far too many people , this situation be become the norm . there be once a time when local authority would typically adopt housing estate when they come forward , but that simply be no long the case . indeed , a Competition and Markets Authority report into this issue last year find that up to 80 % of new housing estate now go unadopted , with no end in sight . indeed , many in my constituency have go unadopted for well over a decade after completion . in the meantime , these householder be on the hook to a private management company that they never expect to be stick with and for a length of time that they have never consider . the impact of that relationship have many facet . first , these householder be hit with what be in effect a new home stealth tax . they be often force to pay hundred of pound each year for service that every other homeowner would get as part of their council tax . typically , these bill be around £ 350 , but that be a significant amount in a cost of living crisis . however , the bill be far from limited to that . I have have correspondence from constituent who have be hit by bill run to thousand of pound . again , very short notice be often give for steep increase . across the whole country in 2022 , the CMA find that more than £ 260 million be spend by household on exactly these charge . in that time , give the growth that we know have happen and that need to continue to happen in our housing supply , that amount will only have grow . that can not be fair and it can not be justify . part of the issue be not just the injustice of pay twice for something , but the fact that this delivery mechanism be structurally design to maximise the cost that these household bear . the management company be not directly accountable to the homeowner — to the people to whom they be provide service . there be no incentive for these management company to keep bill down . indeed , I have have correspondence from people who have be charge upwards of £ 250 just for have one lightbulb change on their estate . moreover , the small size of some of these estate , or the extent to which they can be subdivide , mean that the bulk of the high fee can often just cover management and professional service fee , and bear no relation to any actual service deliver on the estate . indeed , one estate have be subdivide to such a level that the vast majority of the bill that every household be pay be simply the fee for how they be audit each year . that can not be right . alongside that , it be not just the cost that be the problem , but the way that this be undercut the very nature of the stability and prosperity that home ownership be mean to bring with it . by be on the hook to these management company , resident often have to fight for year to get bare - minimum work and service and response to their query . they also often find that when they look to move away from this exploitative relationship , they be unable to do so because of the risk create by that fleecehold system . I have speak to homeowner whose sale have fall through when crucial management pack information have not be provide by management company in a timely way or who , when they have look to move , have not be able to because their credit score have be decimate by exploitative charge when they have not be able to pay steep increase in their service charge in what the management company view to be a timely manner . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to try to do something about this , but it be important that we address it at pace . hopefully , we will be build 1 . 5 million home over the course of this Parliament , but those home will not deliver security or prosperity for the family who take they up if they trap they in fleecehold relationship and on fleecehold unadopted estate . my Bill look to take several important step forward to address this . first , it look to build on some of the recommendation in last year ' s CMA report to cut off unadopted estate at source , mandate minimum adoptable standard that all developer would have to reach as part of their work and lay out minimum adoption timeline that local authority would be accountable for deliver on . all that would ensure that unadopted estate limbo can finally be a thing of the past . give the perilous state of local authority finance , I be aware that this could create some financial burden . however , give certainty over the direction of travel in the adoption of estate and create clarity about the minimum standard for estate to be adopt would create the condition for local authority to be able to assess , negotiate and condition through the planning process any value that they need to extract , to ensure that they can cover the maintenance cost of that estate . hopefully , that will enable we to undercut that iniquitous persistence of two tier of council tax payer at source . alongside that , it be important that we do not walk by those who be already in these estate , particularly because until we have a solution , they will only grow in number since they be now the default model for housing provision across this country . the Bill also look to build on amendment table by the then shadow Housing Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , in the last Parliament to give freeholder on private estate the ability to enact right to manage . this would put they back in the drive seat , give they the power to fire unaccountable management company , ensure that they have a choice , and drive up service level , responsibility and , hopefully , the performance of those undertaking management work . the Bill be far from a panacea . many homeowner will want adoption to be the end state for their estate , but it be an important step forward to drive down the ability of management company to be exploitative and extract unjustifiable fee from new homeowner . it put they back in the drive seat and part of those adoption conversation , hopefully to get their estate to where it need to be , so that the inequity can finally end . I be so excited about this Government ' s housing mission , and to see the number of people in my constituency and across the country whose life will be transform by our commitment to stable home . however , for a long time now we have fail to appreciate the extent to which fleecehold become a default model for new home delivery in this country be undercut the very sense of security and prosperity that new home ownership be mean to bring . I hope that the Government will act with the pace that this issue deserve . I be very excited to introduce the Bill today to start to tackle at source the root cause of the fleecehold stealth tax that be affect thousand of homeowner across the country , who be pay million every year in unjustified service charge . I look forward to work with the Government to do right by those affect right across the country . question put and agree to . order , that Alistair Strathern , Emma Foody , Abtisam Mohamed , Yuan Yang , Connor Naismith , Amanda Hack , Ben Coleman , Tom Rutland , Callum Anderson , Mr James Frith , Luke Murphy and Mrs Sarah Russell present the Bill . Alistair Strathern accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 190 ) . church of Scotland ( Lord High Commissioner ) bill : allocation of Time Ordered , that the follow provision shall apply to the proceeding on the Church of Scotland ( Lord High Commissioner ) bill : timetable ( 1 ) ( a ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take at today ' s sit in accordance with this order . ( b ) proceeding on second read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( c ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion five hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . timing of proceeding and question to be put ( 2 ) when the Bill have be read a second time : ( a ) it shall , despite Standing Order No . 63 ( Committal of bill not subject to a programme order ) , stand committed to a Committee of the whole House without any question be put ; ( b ) the Speaker shall leave the Chair whether or not notice of an instruction have be give . ( 3 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chair shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 4 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 1 ) , the Chair or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply : ( a ) any question already propose from the Chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a Minister of the Crown ; ( d ) the question on any amendment , new Clause or new schedule select by the Chair or Speaker for separate decision ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other question , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 15 ) ( a ) of this order . ( 5 ) on a motion so make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chair or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . ( 6 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( c ) on successive amendment move or Motions make by a Minister of the Crown , the Chair or Speaker shall instead put a single question in relation to those amendment or motion . ( 7 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( e ) in relation to successive provision of the Bill , the Chair shall instead put a single question in relation to those provision , except that the question shall be put separately on any Clause of or schedule to the Bill which a Minister of the Crown have signify an intention to leave out . consideration of Lords Amendments ( 8 ) ( a ) any Lords Amendments to the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 9 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order no . 83F ( programme order : conclusion of proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 8 ) of this order . subsequent stage ( 10 ) ( a ) any further message from the Lords on the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 11 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 g ( Programme order : conclusion of proceeding on further message from the Lords ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 10 ) of this order . Reasons Committee ( 12 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( programme order : reason committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appoint to draw up reason after proceeding have be bring to a conclusion in accordance with this order . miscellaneous ( 13 ) Standing Order No . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on the Bill . ( 14 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding to which this order apply . ( 15 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 16 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding to which this order apply except by a Minister of the Crown . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 17 ) ( a ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the day shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding on that day to which this order apply . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding in respect of such a debate . ( 18 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 19 ) ( a ) any private business which have be set down for consideration at a time fall after the commencement of proceeding on this order or on the Bill on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the Day shall , instead of be consider as provide by Standing Orders or by any order of the House , be consider at the conclusion of the proceeding on the Bill on that day . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to the private business so far as necessary for the purpose of secure that the business may be consider for a period of three hour . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) Church of Scotland ( Lord High Commissioner ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be pleased to open the debate on this Bill , which I hope will have the House ' s support . it be a simple , straightforward and clear piece of legislation that seek to do one simple thing : it will remove a legal barrier that prevent Catholics from hold the office of the Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland . this historic legal restriction apply only to Catholics ; it do not apply to people of other faith or indeed of no religious faith . for those hon . member who be not familiar with the role of Lord High Commissioner — if there be any — perhaps it be beneficial for I to set out some context . the Lord High Commissioner be the sovereign ' s personal representative to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland . they be appoint as an observer to attend proceeding on behalf of his Majesty the King . the General Assembly be the govern body of the Church of Scotland that meet each May in Edinburgh to hear report , make law and set the agenda for the Church for the come year . the ceremonial duty of the Lord High Commissioner include address the Assembly at its opening and closing session as well as attend the daily business on the sovereign ' s behalf . in addition , the Lord High Commissioner undertake official visit in Scotland as well as host engagement at the Palace of Holyroodhouse . historical legislation currently prevent the appointment of Catholics to the role : specifically , the Claim of Right Act 1689 set out restriction against Catholics be appoint to public office in Scotland , include the role of Lord High Commissioner . Most of that be change by the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 , which remove many aspect of religious discrimination towards Catholics . however , it do not explicitly remove the restriction against Catholics hold the office of Lord High Commissioner . that mean that a legislative restriction exist to this day against someone of the catholic faith be appoint to this office . until now , the issue do not arise because no Catholic be ever appoint to the role , but that position change in December with the announcement of the appointment of Lady Elish Angiolini . the Bill will allow Lady Elish to take up the role . there be similarity to the approach adopt in the Lord Chancellor ( Tenure of Office and Discharge of Ecclesiastical Functions ) Act 1974 , which remove restriction on Catholics take up the role of Lord Chancellor . the Bill be short — as hon . member can see — and narrowly focus . it will deliver a small but important modernisation to allow Catholics to undertake the role of Lord High Commissioner . I should declare an interest as a member of the Church of Scotland and an elder of the Kirk . I very much support the Bill , but the Minister will be aware that the Law Society of Scotland have suggest that it would have prefer consultation before the Bill be introduce . do he have any reflection on that ? I think that its particular concern be about wide religious discrimination on the statute book that could have also be deal with as part of this process . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his support for the Bill . I will come on to the timetable that , by necessity , we have have to adopt . legislation of this kind be not always precede by a consultation . some hon . member may remember our late friend David Cairns , whose position in this House be facilitate by legislation remove barrier on ordain priest be elect to the House . as I understand it , that particular piece of legislation do not have a consultation before it either . I turn to Lady Elish Angiolini , whose appointment as the Lord High Commissioner for this year will be facilitate by the passage of the Bill , if it proceed . Lady Elish have a distinguished background in law , justice and academia . she be appoint Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire for service to the administration of justice in 2011 . in 2022 , she be appoint by her late Majesty the Queen to the most Ancient and Most Noble order of the Thistle , and in that role she participate in the coronation in 2023 . Lady Elish have also be principal of St Hugh ' s College , Oxford since 2012 and be make a pro - vice chancellor of the University of Oxford in 2017 . the announcement Lady Elish ' s appointment as Lord High Commissioner have be widely welcome in Scotland . the appointment would make she the first Catholic to undertake the role of Lord High Commissioner and would be a significant symbol of unity , good will and collaboration between the Church of Scotland and the Catholic Church in Scotland . it build on the spirit of the St Margaret declaration , sign at Dunfermline abbey in 2022 . that be a historic declaration of friendship between the Church of Scotland and the Catholic Church in Scotland , and the legislation before the House build on the spirit of that . the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) refer to the circumstance and the timetable . I say to the House that the Bill be on an accelerated timetable , which be necessary to ensure that Lady Elish ' s appointment can be finalise ahead of the General Assembly in May . we hope to have all the parliamentary stage complete by the end of next month when , subject to Royal Assent , the formality of the appointment can begin . that process will include a formal commission for the office , accompany by a royal warrant , and the speedy passage of the Bill be to allow the formality necessary to enable Lady Elish to act as Lord High Commissioner and address the General Assembly at its opening and closing session in May . be the appointment not able to proceed , that would be a setback to recent progress and an outcome that I do not believe anyone want . I therefore hope that the Bill can proceed today with the support of all party in the House . while the Bill relate to the reserved matter of the Crown , I have speak to the First Minister of Scotland and to representative of both the Church of Scotland and the Catholic Church in Scotland about the Bill and the desire to facilitate the appointment of Lady Elish . I thank they all for their constructive and collaborative approach . I have also have the pleasure of discuss the matter with Lady Elish directly , and I have no doubt that she will be an excellent Lord High Commissioner . move on to the Bill itself , there be two clause . clause 1 make provision to allow a person of the roman catholic faith to hold the office of the Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland , and clause 2 set out the territorial extent of the Bill and its commencement , include that the Bill will commence on Royal Assent . it be a small step to remove a religious barrier . without it , neither Lady Elish nor any other Catholic could take up the appointment by the sovereign . the Bill change that and ensure that the announce appointment can go ahead . it be short and simple , but still in its own way an important Bill . I hope it will receive a broad welcome , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to rise to speak in this debate . in fact , it be a genuine pleasure to be speak , as a member of the Church of Scotland , on an historically significant piece of legislation . it could be argue that this be the late piece of the work that be begin with the passing of the very legislation that it seek in part to repeal — the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 — to ensure full equality for Catholics in our public realm . I grow up not quite a son of the manse — it be three door down — but very much in and around the kirk , and in eight year as a Member of this place , this be the first debate on any issue regard the governance or affair of the Church of Scotland that I can remember . give that it relate to one of the two establish church of our United Kingdom , that be on the one hand surprising , especially when compare with the hour we spend debate governance and issue pertain to the Anglican Church . but then , its privileged status as the establish Church in Scotland — underpin by the act of Union and the Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Act 1707 — mean that since 1921 , when the Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland form part of the Church of Scotland Act 1921 , it have not require any UK or scottish parliamentary oversight regard church worship , governance , constitution , membership or office bearer . this make today an even more significant moment in the history of the Church and the nation , so infrequently be matter of the Kirk discuss on the Floor of either of Scotland ' s two Parliaments . our relationship between Church and state in the United Kingdom be a brilliantly fashioned piece of british pragmatism — or possibly a fudge , as some might describe it . only in Great Britain could we have a Head of state who , while be Supreme Governor of one establish Church , the Anglican Church of England , be also an ordinary member of a completely separate Presbyterian Church , the Church of Scotland . but we do , and no question be ask . it be a piece of ecclesiastical deftness that would be inconceivable in any other country . however , I think we would all agree that it be carry out with ease by the late Queen Elizabeth , who demonstrate her commitment to , interest in and knowledge of both church throughout her reign — an interest , passion and dedication now match by our King . today , we see another brilliant piece of british pragmatism in what we be about to legislate for . to many in the outside world , the appointment of the brilliant Dame Elish Angiolini to one of the most significant role in scottish public life will rightly be see as a well - deserve honour for one as successful as she have be in her field and in scottish and british public life . when we think about it , however , it remain quite incredible that a practise roman Catholic will represent our protestant monarch , whose very first act as King , in accordance with the Act of Succession , be to take an oath to " inviolably maintain and preserve the Settlement of the true Protestant Religion as establish by the Laws make in Scotland in prosecution of the claim of Right and particularly by an Act intitule ' an Act for secure the Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Government ' " . rightly , no question will be ask about her appointment . there may in fact be some who question the appointment , but I think it speak well to we as a nation — our two nation — that we be so relaxed about such an appointment today . it speak to just how much Scotland have change . I wonder if the Scotland of my grandfather ' time — both of whom be bear in Glasgow in the 1920 and both of whom go on to be Kirk elder — would have be as relaxed about such an appointment . Bear in mind that the Church of Scotland be form out of the blood and fire of the scottish reformation , with John Knox in his revolutionary zeal create the only truly national Calvinist church . it dominate public life for century : for well , especially in the realm of public education ; and for bad , give that for too long it exclude all other form of Christianity and adherence to anything but the Kirk ' s form of Christianity from most position of influence in public life in Scotland . the song still sing at certain football ground between fan of certain rival team speak to a more difficult time in the history of Scotland and indeed the church in Scotland — one that , sadly , have not totally be consign to the history book . scottish public life be until incredibly recently dominate by the Kirk . its General Assembly be cover in the same way as the sitting of a Scottish Parliament — at that point not in existence — would have be . its membership when I be bear in the mid - 1980s sit at around 1 million people , and its presence touch the life of a great many more . it have daily five - minute slot on scottish television , with " Late call " be parody so well by the late great Rikki Fulton , as well as the Boys ' Brigade and the Women ' s Guild . so many people have so much interaction with the Church , but Scotland have change , and in many way for the well . in many way , however , the change in Scotland have present challenge for the Church . church membership , which be just shy of 1 million when I be bear , sit now at just over 200 , 000 . the General Assembly , which for many year sit as the one national forum in Scotland at which issue of importance to people across Scotland could be air in public and debate , be cover as a sitting of a Parliament would be . since the creation of the Scottish Parliament , it have not engage the same media interest as it do in the year precede 1999 . the decline in number enter the ministry and the reduction in footfall in church building across the country have lead to difficult — at time , heartbreaking — decision be take to sell building and reduce the Church estate . yet there be huge positive as well . in recent decade , we have see the Kirk move with the people of Scotland and modernise . it allow woman to be ordain back in 1968 , some 24 year before the Church of England do likewise , and that lead to huge growth in the number of woman in leadership role in the Church . the Church have have multiple female Moderators of the General Assembly , the first be Alison Elliot in 2004 . in 2015 , the Church allow congregation to appoint minister who be in same - sex marriage or civil partnership . that be follow by it officially approve those marriage , and it allow minister to conduct they in 2022 . whether it be through traditional church service , outreach in community across Scotland and Europe , the Guild , CrossReach , or missionary work across the world , the Church of Scotland continue to touch and guide our national life in many way . religion in Britain be a funny thing . on the one hand , we famously " don ' t do God . " on the other , we have prayer before every meeting of our national Parliament . on the one hand , unlike other country , we treat our religion as private . on the other , bishop of one of our establish church sit in one of our legislature , and our Head of State be the supreme governor of one of our two establish church . what we be do today will baffle most of those watch our proceeding , not least those who do not know that there be two establish church in the United Kingdom , but it be important , and it have the official Opposition ' s full support . it be a significant gesture of good will and unity between two of Scotland ' s large church , and build on the St Margaret declaration of friendship between the Catholic Church in Scotland and the Church of Scotland in 2022 . it be yet another display of fantastic british pragmatism , and the sensibleness that have underpin how church and the state have interact over century . it only remain for I , on behalf of his Majesty ' s official Opposition , to wish the new Lord High Commissioner well in her role ; to thank the outgoing Moderator of the Church , Dr Shaw Paterson , for his service over this year ; to wish the Moderator Designate , Rev . Rosemary Frew , well as she take up the role ; and to wish all those attend the upcoming General Assembly wisdom and patience as they deliberate on matter that mean so much to the national life of Scotland . like so many in my constituency and across Scotland , I have a lifelong association with the Church of Scotland . for so many of we in Scotland , the story of our family be intertwine with local Church of Scotland parish , not just through attendance at church on a Sunday , but through our marking of important life event . that link be evidence in so many ordinary aspect of community life — at local badminton club meeting in the church hall , and at summer f ê tes , jumble sale and coffee morning . the Church belong to all our community . it assist the elderly and frail in the community , support young mother , run youth club , and make commitment to international aid . my great aunt be an organist in the church in Bishopton , and in Paisley in my constituency . my two child be baptise in the Church of Scotland in Paisley , and my husband and I be marry in Drumclog memorial kirk in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride and Strathaven ( Joani Reid ) . my sense of belong to the Church of Scotland be no barrier to my appreciation of other faith and other christian community . indeed , the Church of Scotland have demonstrate a sincere commitment to ecumenical dialogue . the Catholic Church have be a willing and active participant in that effort . for more than 40 year , that have lead to a share commitment to people from all faith and none work together , notably in food bank and many other community support service . I know that my life be enrich by friendship with people of other faith ; the Church of Scotland have be similarly enrich . today , for historical reason that may seem odd to those follow the debate , there be a legislative restriction on a person of the roman catholic faith be appoint Lord High Commissioner by the sovereign to act as an observer on the sovereign ' s behalf . such restriction do not apply to people of other faith , or indeed to those of no faith . a change in the legislation be long overdue . I be pleased to support the Government in remove this unnecessary and unwelcome impediment to a Roman Catholic serve as the representative of his Majesty the King at the upcoming General Assembly of the Church of Scotland . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a delight to follow the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) . in the almost eight year that I have be here , I do not think I have ever look forward to a debate this much , or take this much pleasure from one , not just because there be no real party divide to worry about , but because it feel as if the Church of Scotland — of which I be , but be no long , a member — be finally stand up for the sort of Scotland that we all want to see and work towards . I be no long a member of the Church , but I be for many year , and my late husband be an elder in the Kirk , not so very far from the constituency of the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) . the Church be still a huge part of community life in Scotland . the fact that it have take this long to overturn the injustice of the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 — a piece of discrimination against Roman Catholics — be something that we should bear in mind , and we should promise never to allow this to happen again . although it be important that we get this legislation through quickly , so that we can appoint Lady Elish Angiolini , I hope that we address the wide discrimination leave in scottish society . this be an important day . Lady Elish have be a role model for so many young woman in Scotland . she be the first female Solicitor General , Lord Advocate and Lord Clerk Register , and , as the Minister mention , she have be the principal of St Hugh ' s College , Oxford , since 2012 . the fact that she will be the first roman Catholic to hold the post of Lord High Commissioner be significant , and far enhance her position as a role model . everyone I have speak to from the Church be delighted that she will be in position . we Liberal Democrats completely support the Bill , and hope that it go through quickly . the fact that in 2025 we can say that no roman Catholic have ever hold the post of Lord High Commissioner seem slightly absurd . there be , of course , other position in this nation that a Catholic have never occupy and , as matter stand , can never occupy . it be good that we can break down one of those barrier today and reflect the extremely friendly relationship between the Catholic Church in Scotland and the Church of Scotland — and indeed , through the interfaith council , the Church ' s relationship with other faith , too . the change be also a mark of the high regard in which people of good will hold Lady Elish Angiolini , and of the many quality that make she a fitting representative of his Majesty . as we have hear , by convention , the sovereign be not normally present at the General Assembly , as he or she be technically an ordinary member of the Church , not its supreme governor , as he or she be in England . traditionally , the Lord High Commissioner represent the sovereign , and be an observer appoint under the royal prerogative , so , as we know , there be no need for parliamentary approval of the appointment , or for legislation . as the Lord High Commissioner be a representative to the General Assembly , rather than part of the assembly , it be not necessary for they to be a member of the Church of Scotland , or indeed of any other church . however , the legislation that we be consider be necessary because the holder of the office can not currently be a roman Catholic . the scottish Claim of Right Act 1689 set out restriction on Catholics be appoint to public office . paragraph 19 state : " that by the law of this Kingdome no papist can be King or queen of this realme nor bear any office whatsomever therin " . those be harsh word , if I may say so . the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 be the culmination of a long process , work towards give Catholics relief from the many restriction impose on they in Great Britain and Ireland prior to the Union of 1801 . however , although that Act retain some restriction on Catholics , most of which have since be repeal , some significant one remain . that be what we wish to amend today . as the Law Society of Scotland have suggest , it be unfortunate that the Bill can not also be amend to remove the reference to the Lord High Chancellor from the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 , so that the 1829 Act can be bring into conformity with the Lord Chancellor ( Tenure of Office and Discharge of Ecclesiastical Functions ) Act 1974 . there be clearly a long history surround the appointment , with the first Lord High Commissioner have be appoint in 1580 . in the intervene five century , significant people have hold the post , include a number of former colleague of mine , and of the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , and include Lord James Douglas Hamilton , Lord Wallace , Lord Steel and George Reid . colleague might have spot that they have something in common : they be all man . it be not until 1970 that the late Peggy Herbison , a former MP , be appoint the first female Lord High Commissioner . we then have to wait another 24 year , until the appointment of Lady Fraser , for the second . since then , the Princess Royal have hold the post twice , and it would be good to think that , follow Lady Elish ' s appointment , we might see woman appoint more regularly . the appointment be expect to be make , we be tell , on the basis of the merit and contribution to society of the appointee , and Lady Elish certainly qualify on both count . I should declare an interest : I have know Lady Elish since we be both teenager and member of our respective school ' debate society . she be very much well than I be , and even then , it be clear that she be destine for a very significant future . I also serve in Government with she when she be appoint by First Minister Jack McConnell as the first female Solicitor General . Elish go on to become the first female Lord Advocate . she hold both position with distinction and be highly regard during her time in office . since then , she have serve in a number of legal post , and be currently the principal of St Hugh ' s College , Oxford , and Pro - Vice - Chancellor of the University of Oxford . she be also the first woman to hold the position of Lord Clerk of Scotland , another first for a woman . significantly , she chair the public inquiry into the abduction , rape and murder of Sarah Everard . we can safely say that Lady Elish be an outstanding candidate for the post of Lord High Commissioner . as I mention in opening , it be regrettable that in 2025 we still have such law on the statute book , but ironically the relationship between the two church be in very good heart . the signing of the St Margaret ' s declaration in 2022 by the Moderator and Archbishop Cushley , the representative of the catholic bishop conference , seek to build on the common heritage of the two denomination in the christian tradition . it recognise that division be still present , but seek to mend those division and to focus on what the church have in common . with the passing of the Bill today and the appointment of Lady Elish to the post of Lord High Commissioner , we take another welcome step on the journey to ecumenicalism . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) . of course we welcome the Bill , and the Government can be assure that we will do whatever we can to assist its progress through the House , but as we have hear from many hon . member , the fact that in 2025 the United Kingdom be still have to introduce legislation to remove anti - catholic legislation from the statute book be pretty embarrassing . that people of the roman catholic faith be still explicitly legally bar from hold the position of Lord High Commissioner of the Church of Scotland — a post that can be hold by people of all other faith and those with no religious belief — be nonsense . I do not blame the Government or the Minister one iota . I be quite sure that they be as surprised as anybody when , after have appoint Lady Elish Angiolini to the office of Lord High Commissioner , one of their lawyer appear , blow the cobwebs off the 1829 Act , to reveal the flaw in their plan . that do not take away from the fact that it be ridiculous that two century after the Act be pass , the Government be still have to introduce these narrowly focus Bills to correct historical wrong as and when they appear . while I can understand that the Government be catch on the hop with regard to this particular appointment , I share the frustration of the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , who wonder whether it would not be well to bundle all this legislation together and remove all exist anti - catholic discrimination , rather than just do it piecemeal as and when circumstance arise . that may well not have be possible on this occasion , give the time constraint of Lady Elish ' s appointment , and so the Government be have to get around the problem in this fashion , but I hope that we never again find ourselves in this situation and that the Government will find time to bring forward legislation that , once and for all , remove all trace of anti - catholic discrimination from UK law . be the Minister to approach his boss with such a proposal , I suspect that he would receive a fair hearing . as far back as 2002 , an aspire young barrister — now the Prime Minister — write in the Guardian , describe the UK ' s remain anti - catholic law as " deeply offensive " and an offence to multicultural Britain . should such a Bill be introduce , I would like to think that it would pass through this House quickly and without too much opposition . it be important to point out that this situation have nothing whatsoever to do with the Church of Scotland , which , to its enormous credit , have view the appointment of Lady Elish to the post of Lord High Commissioner as completely uncontroversial . the Rev . Fiona Smith , principal clerk of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland , have say : " we be honour that his Majesty have appoint Lady Elish Angiolini as Lord High Commissioner … we very much look forward to welcome she to the General Assembly . " as other have mention , that be a remarkable transformation , because not so long ago the idea of a catholic female , particularly one of irish descent , be the sovereign ' s official representative in the Church of Scotland would have be unthinkable to many in this Kirk . although I do not think that the Minister be there personally , I be sure he will remember that it be only in 1923 that the infamous report entitle " the menace of the Irish Race to our Scottish Nationality " be present to the General Assembly , so the appointment of a catholic woman as Lord High Commissioner be welcome by the Church of Scotland be a wonderful example of how far Scotland as a nation have travel in recent decade . as the Minister have say , and as other have repeat , it should come as no surprise to any of we that if there be a trail to blaze , Elish Angiolini be the person who be go to blaze it . bear Elish Frances McPhilomy in Glasgow and educate at Notre Dame high school and the University of Strathclyde , she become one of Scotland ' s most prominent lawyer , serve as Solicitor General , as we have hear , before become Lord Advocate . she serve under both Labour and SNP Governments at Holyrood between 2006 and 2011 , before be appoint to St Hugh ' s College the follow year . Lady Elish remain prominent in public life ; as we have hear , she chair several Government inquiry into death in police custody and the investigation and prosecution of rape . in 2020 she publish a report on her review of the handling of complaint against Police Scotland , before become chair of the board of trustee at Reprieve , a charity make up of lawyer , investigator and campaigner fight for justice for people face human right abuse , often at the hand of powerful government . as if to cement her trailblaze reputation , in October 2023 Lady Elish become the first woman to be swear in as the new Lord Clerk Register of Scotland — one of the old remain great office of state , with origin go back to the 13th century . give the circumstance , I do not think that there could be a more appropriate appointment to the role of Lord High Commissioner of the Church of Scotland than that of Elish Angiolini , but , as I have say , it be deeply regrettable that because of her religious belief , we have have to pass a Bill in this House to allow it to happen . finally , give that this Bill be welcome but long overdue , I be delighted to inform the Government that should Lady Elish decide not to take up the role for any reason whatsoever , from this day on I , too , be available for selection . the hon . member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan o ' Hara ) have provide a most eloquent job application . I be very pleased to read of the upcoming appointment of Lady Elish Angiolini . not only would Lady Elish be the first roman Catholic to hold the office of Lord High Commissioner , but she be incredibly well qualified — speak as a recover scot lawyer , someone who have hold the post of Lord Advocate and Solicitor General with such accomplishment be clearly incredibly well qualified for the role . she be an example , as be some member of this House , of the excellent education you can get from state school in Glasgow . the current law mean that , at present , a roman Catholic can not be Lord High Commissioner . the Bill remove the legal impediment to that , and therefore I fully support it . Lady Elish Angiolini be a practise roman Catholic , and much work have be do to build close link between the Catholic Church in Scotland and the Church of Scotland , include the St Margaret declaration sign in 2022 . however , as importantly — if not more importantly — much work have take place between local Catholic and Church of Scotland congregation . I have see much of that work in Glasgow at first hand , pretty much every Sunday , and it be an absolute joy to behold . more widely , Lady Elish ' s appointment be another very good example of the progress make between the two church . she have say the following of her appointment , which be something quite profound that we in this House should pause and reflect on : " it be really important that people of all religion and faith come together . the world be a scary place these day and it be important that people of all faith meet , share , and promote peace and harmony . this be a good example of that . " I could not agree more . I say that this Bill be important , because it be a demonstration of people of different religion and faith come together in Scotland and put aside their difference . in Glasgow , in Scotland and across our family of nation , people of different faith , and of no faith , work very well together for the good of our community . in Glasgow , we see many example of that . we have one of the old muslim population in Scotland , which give greatly to people in Glasgow ; we have a vibrant Sikh population , which dedicate itself to the service of the poor in Glasgow ; and the annual Holocaust memorial lecture at the University of Glasgow bring large and diverse audience , include many of our jewish brother and sister , to reflect on the terror of the Holocaust . People in Glasgow and in Scotland work hard to understand each other , and religious diversity be a source of joy , energy , strength and beauty in Glasgow ' s 850th year . the appointment of Lady Elish be a profound moment in this year . all this speak to the word of the St Margaret declaration : " what we hold in common be often great than what divide we . " in these time , as Lady Elish suggest , it be important that we redouble our effort for dialogue and understanding between people of faith , as well as people of no faith . at this moment , we should also celebrate the real progress we have make in that regard across our family of nation . this Bill be one very good example , and I for one be proud to live in a family of nation that have have a Muslim First Minister and a Hindu Prime Minister . I be proud to see this Bill make progress through this House . it be a genuine pleasure to close this important debate . I should begin , as other have do , by declare an interest , in that I myself be a member of the Church of Scotland . I give my thank to hon . member on both side of the House for their thoughtful , measured and constructive contribution , in addition to their substantive support for this worthwhile piece of legislation . as we have hear from my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , this important Bill will facilitate the appointment of Lady Elish Angiolini as the first roman Catholic to hold the historic office of Lord High Commissioner . the Bill will put an end to the statutory constraint that prevent someone from be appoint to that position solely on the basis of their religion . in this debate , we have hear a number of view and contribution from hon . member , to which I will now turn . first , I thank the shadow Secretary of State for Scotland , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , for both his substantive support and the spirit of his speech to the House today . when it come to the ecclesiastical deftness of which he speak , the appropriate acknowledgment of the Kirk ' s place in our national life be surely more tablet than fudge — by which I mean tablet , rather than the Tablet , the esteemed catholic newspaper . in all seriousness , the powerful case he make for ecumenical understanding in modern Scotland be well judge and surely command support across the House . as he state , thankfully Scotland have change . as a fellow communicant member , he speak with knowledge , understanding and empathy of the Kirk ' s continue work and witness , guide our national life . my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) speak movingly of the huge contribution make by the Church of Scotland , not just in the now rename Clyde presbytery , but in local parish right across our nation . I can personally attest to that . my grandfather , the Rev . Douglas Alexander , be a parish minister in Eaglesham in East Renfrewshire , and my father — also the Rev . Douglas Alexander — be , as my hon . friend know , a parish minister in Bishopton . she speak of her family tie there , and I be proud to say that Bishopton be now in her constituency . my father serve in that parish for almost 30 year . it be right to recognise the huge contribution of the Kirk to the life and work of community right across our nation , and I be happy to do so from this Dispatch Box today . the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) bring a zest and enthusiasm to this debate that I have not fully anticipate , but it seem merit in the light of the contribution we have hear . as the Liberal Democrat spokesman for Scotland , she describe this Bill accurately as an action stand up for the Scotland that we all want to see . that be a sentiment with which we would all surely agree . she also speak generously and accurately about Lady Elish Angiolini ' s genuinely pioneer role in our national life . that be a sentiment with which we would concur on this side of the House . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) bring to this House her experience of serve in the Scottish Parliament and Scottish Cabinet . that experience be reflect in her remark in this Chamber this afternoon , where she speak with warmth and insight — in part bear from a similar schooling at Notre Dame — about the suitability of Lady Elish Angiolini for the high office of Lord High Commissioner . I thank my hon . friend for share those insight , and I concur with her view that Lady Elish be indeed very well qualified for the role . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West make an observation about why this Bill do not remove the reference to the Lord High Commissioner from the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 . I can offer she the assurance that that be make obsolete by the 1974 Act . while I can understand the desire for legislative tidying - up , the scope of this Bill be necessarily limit to the role of the Lord High Commissioner , and the position be clear : follow this Bill , there will be no restriction on a Catholic hold either role . the hon . member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan o ' Hara ) offer his support and that of this party for the Bill , and we be grateful for that . Cross - party support in this House be a powerful symbol of our share commitment to cross - denomination and cross - faith understanding in modern Scotland . he rightly recognise the time constraint under which we be necessarily operate today to ensure that Lady Elish Angiolini can take up this office in time for the gathering of the Kirk ' s General Assembly in the spring . despite smuggle into his speech a late and , I have to say , rather unexpected job application , he rightly recognise Lady Elish ' s cross - party credential as a genuine trailblazer in scottish national life . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) describe with characteristic eloquence how , to quote he , people in Glasgow " work hard to understand each other , and religious diversity be a source of joy , energy , strength and beauty in Glasgow ' s 850th year . " in that , he be correct . I should perhaps declare another interest , in that Glasgow be the city of my birth , but it be right to recognise that after an at time troubled history of sectarian and religious intolerance , today people make Glasgow , and those people be comprise of all faith and none . I thank my hon . friend for his powerful advocacy for dialogue and understanding , which bring to mind Jo Cox , lately of this House . I thank he for his understanding and contribution to the debate today . his speech be very much in keep with the spirit of the St Margaret declaration . the debate have indicate that there be support for this legislation across the House . I look forward to hear far from hon . member in the remain stage of the Bill , due to follow shortly . with the support of the House , I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Committee of the whole House ( Order , this day ) . church of Scotland ( Lord High Commissioner ) Bill consider in Committee ( Order , this day ) [ Ms Nusrat Ghani in the Chair ] clause 1 - holding of office of Lord High Commissioner by roman Catholic I remind member that in Committee they should not address the Chair as " Madam Deputy Speaker " . I ask they please to use our name ; alternatively , " Madam Chair " or " Madam Chairman " be acceptable . question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider clause 2 . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship , Ms Ghani . I hope that I will not detain the Committee for long in deal with the two clause . the purpose of clause 1 be to make provision to allow a person of the roman catholic faith to hold the office of Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland . the Lord Chancellor ( Tenure of Office and Discharge of Ecclesiastical Functions ) Act 1974 remove restriction on individual take up the office of Lord Chancellor , and , similarly , the Bill remove the restriction on the Lord High Commissioner from the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 . clause 2 set out the extent , commencement and short title of the Bill : it extend to England and Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . it will come into force on Royal Assent , which will ensure that the upcoming appointment of Lady Angiolini as the Lord High Commissioner go ahead in the run - up to the General Assembly in May . it be clear that the Bill command a broad consensus , and I be grateful to colleague for their approach to it . I look forward to the rest of the debate today , and to see the Bill on the statute book soon . I call the shadow Minister . I , too , will not detain the Committee for long , have already express the full support of his Majesty ' s official Opposition for the Bill , and it will come as no surprise that we be not propose any amendment in Committee . I do , however , have two question for the Minister . when do he expect the Bill to go to the House of Lords , and can he assure the Committee and , indeed , the Church of Scotland that everything possible will be do to secure its swift passage to Royal Assent so that it be pass in time for the upcoming General Assembly of the Church of Scotland ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we want progress to be expeditious . I shall be happy to write to he once we know the exact date on which it will be introduce in the House of Lords , contingent on support in this Chamber today , but I can assure he that , as the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster make clear , we have be engage in regular dialogue with the Church of Scotland and the other relevant office , and we have every confidence , on the basis of the support we have see today and will hopefully see in the other place , that we will be able to provide a timetable ensure that Lady Angiolini be able to take up her position by the time of the General Assembly in May . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . give the mood in the House , I do not intend to detain people for long . by now we know the purpose of the Bill : to allow Catholics to be appoint to the role of Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland . that be the Bill in a nutshell . today ' s debate have demonstrate that there be wide support for the Bill across the House . I thank the Church of Scotland , the Catholic Church and the Scottish Government for their engagement and collaboration in the development of the legislation . I also thank all those who speak in our debate , include the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) , the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , the hon . member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan o ' Hara ) , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) and my right hon . friend the Minister of State for the Cabinet Office . I be grateful to all of they . as we have say , at the signing of the St Margaret ' s declaration at Dunfermline abbey in 2022 , both the Catholic Church and the Church of Scotland declare that what they hold in common be far great than what divide they , and that they would commit to continue work towards great unity . I hope that this Bill , in its small way , will continue in that spirit . the hon . member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber refer to 1923 and ask if I be there . I be not there , but in the same year w . b . Yeats write that " peace come drop slow " . maybe equality sometimes come drop slow too , but today we have take a small and important step , and I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I would like to record the thank of the Opposition to those who have make possible this Bill , which will hopefully soon become an Act , and to member from across the House for their contribution . I be grateful for the engagement with the Church of Scotland , the Catholic Church and Lady Elish herself . I think we can all agree that the Bill be a positive step and speak well to the type of country that Scotland be today , which be certainly not the case 100 year ago . I express yet again my good wish to the new Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly , and to all those attend its deliberation in its upcoming meeting in May . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 5 to 7 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Rating and Valuation that the draft Non - Domestic Rating ( Levy and Safety Net ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 6 February , be approve . immigration that the draft Immigration ( Biometric Information etc . ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 21 January , be approve . immigration that the draft Immigration and Nationality ( Fees ) ( amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 21 January , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . Electoral Commission [ Relevant Document : First Report of the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , re - appointment of an Electoral Commissioner , HC 740 . ] order , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , pray that his Majesty will re - appoint Dame Elan Closs Stephens as an Electoral Commissioner with effect from 13 March 2025 for the period end on 12 March 2027 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) House of Commons Members ' Fund Ordered , that — ( 1 ) the sum to be deduct from the salary of member of the House of Commons in pursuance of section 4 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the House of Commons Members ' Fund Act 2016 shall be 0 . 03 % of the salary of each Member of the House of Commons ; and ( 2 ) that sum shall be deduct from the beginning of the financial year start on 1 April 2025 and for each subsequent financial year thereafter ( subject to any further resolution of the House of Commons under section 4 ( 2 ) of the House of Commons Members ' Fund Act 2016 ) . — ( Chris Elmore . ) Modernisation Committee Ordered , that Mike Amesbury be discharge from the Modernisation Committee and Chris Vince be add . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Trade Diversion and Windsor Framework Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) the issue of diversion of trade be become an increase problem of manifold proportion for Northern Ireland . before the protocol , good could be move from Birmingham to Belfast as easily as they could be move from Gloucester to Glasgow , but no more . the result Irish sea border , and all that come with it , have cause a huge and increase diversion of trade . we can get an insight into how thing naturally should be and how business wish they to be by look at the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency figure of recent year . if we look at the pre - protocol day , we see that in 2018 , for example , the volume of good purchase from the Irish Republic be £ 2 . 8 billion , but the amount purchase from GB be five time that — £ 13 . 4 billion . there we have a snapshot of the natural inclination of trade in Northern Ireland , particularly for our raw material . before Brexit , there be a similar situation . indeed , we could say — and some may say — that that be a well reflection of whether there have be trade diversion . before Brexit , we could as readily buy our good from the Republic as we could from GB , because we be all in the EU single market . even then , the predominant trading of choice be from GB . that be no surprise because for decade Northern Ireland have be a particularly integrate part of the UK economy . however , along come the protocol , which require Northern Ireland to be subject to a foreign custom code — that of the EU — which of course treat GB as if it be a foreign country . therefore , when good come from outside the EU into the EU , and we in Northern Ireland be regard as be in the EU for these purpose , those good have to be check , with custom declaration , documentary check and physical check on , for example , all our raw material . so it be no surprise that that be inevitably bind to cause diversion of trade . we be tell , as part of the spin of sell the protocol , " oh , there be protection against the diversion of trade , and it wouldn ' t be allow to happen " . article 16 of the protocol , we be tell , be our safety net : " if the application of this Protocol lead to … diversion of trade … the United Kingdom may unilaterally take appropriate safeguard measure . " it have lead to the diversion of trade , but the United Kingdom Government have not take unilateral action in that regard . the fact of the diversion of trade be a challenge to the protocol ' s proponent . it be a challenge to those who put this upon we , and it be one that they have to meet , but which I fear they will not meet . where be the proof , some may ask , of the diversion of trade ? again , it be in the NISRA statistic . Dr Esmond Birnie , a renowned economist in Northern Ireland , have do a succession of study of the NISRA statistic . he write back on 11 December 2024 that the datum " provide further evidence that the NI economy be become more trade integrate with the Republic " , and of " North - South trade grow at very rapid rate at the expense of what previously be an inflow of good from GB . " will the hon . member give way ? perhaps in a moment . we also see that in the purchase of good figure that NISRA report . it have give we figure from 2020 , contrast they in a table with those for 2023 . the year 2023 be only the beginning of thing get difficult , as the Irish sea border do not in effect come into place until October 2023 because of the grace period . however , those NISRA figure show that Northern Ireland ' s purchase of good increase from 2020 to 2023 — of course , it be a period of inflation — by 24 % from GB , but by 50 % from the Republic of Ireland , mean twice the growth rate in the buying of good into Northern Ireland that would previously have come from our integrate United Kingdom economy . the Office for National Statistics business insight and condition survey state that 13 . 1 % of currently trading manufacturer base in GB have send good to Northern Ireland in the past 12 month . that be at the end of 2024 . but in January 2021 , 20 % of manufacturer in GB be send good to Northern Ireland . so , in just those four year there have be a dramatic fall in the number of manufacturer supply good to Northern Ireland . it have nearly halve in four year . the ONS datum for 2024 tell we more : 11 . 7 % of company tell we they have stop trade with Northern Ireland . why ? because of the bureaucracy , because they have to make custom declaration , because they have to have they check , and because they have to employ extra staff to do all that . many company , particularly in small sector , have simply say that they be not go to do it . will the hon . and learn Gentleman give way ? in a moment , perhaps . I need to make sure I get through what I need to say . it be beyond doubt , I would respectfully say , that there have be trade diversion . back in September , the Road Haulage Association give evidence to a parliamentary Committee of this House . it tell the Committee that 30 % of haulage lorry that take good to GB be return empty . why ? because GB company have stop supply . now , that be an incredible thing to contemplate . trade work on the basis that you take good out , and then you fill your lorry and bring good back . that be how you make it viable and how the economy work . that 30 % of lorry now return to Northern Ireland be return empty be an incredible indictment of the operation of the protocol . and thing be get bad . the EU regulation on general product safety now put more burden on company sell into Northern Ireland , because they have to meet enhance EU product safety regulation . I have mention the craft sector in this House before . recently , 11 supplier in that niche market stop supply Northern Ireland . it will get bad , because the partial border be come and they will have to do more paperwork and make more declaration about send simple parcel from GB to Northern Ireland . Tesco have slide that it show to its own supplier state that they should now buy from the Republic of Ireland because it be easy to supply from there than from GB . the same be happen in veterinary medicine and in every sector . why do that matter ? it matter for a very pertinent political reason . the whole idea of trade diversion and the whole purpose of the protocol be and be to build an all - Ireland economy : to dismantle the economic link between Great Britain and Northern Ireland and enhance link with the Irish Republic , thereby create stepping stone out of the United Kingdom into an all - Ireland for Northern Ireland . that be the determination that lie behind the protocol . we do not need a protocol to govern trade . it be demonstrable that if we can organise trade through Northern Ireland to GB without border check in the Irish sea , and if , as the Government now say be possible , we can do it with check away from the border , then equally we could do it in the other direction , through mutual enforcement . that would mean recognise that if we be go to export from one territory to another , our manufacturer must produce good to the standard of the other , and we would enforce that by make it a criminal offence to do otherwise . that be the essence of mutual enforcement . it would work , but it be not allow to work , because the political agenda of the protocol be to ensure this reorientation and realignment . we be tell that we now have Intertrade UK , but it have no staff and no budget , in comparison with InterTradeIreland , which have more than 50 staff and a budget of £ 6 . 5 million a year and be active across the whole area . Intertrade UK have be set up as a shadow , but it be not able to compete in any sense . this Government have allow the economy of Northern Ireland to drift out of the United Kingdom . I believe those who be protocol enthusiast want that to happen . now it be happen , the onus be back on the Government to do something about it . rise — before the hon . and learn Gentleman take the intervention , I know that he be anxious about get through his speech , but , because the Adjournment debate start early , he do have until 7 . 30 pm . [ Laughter . ] I believe he be about to take an intervention — do he want to continue with that ? I will give way . you shouldn ' t encourage he , Madam Deputy Speaker — he will take to 7 . 30 pm and beyond , because this be such an important subject . do the hon . and learn Gentleman agree that the diversion of trade have not only political but economic implication for Northern Ireland ? there be increase transport cost , because lorry do not come both way with good in they ; there be the fact that many people choose supplier in England because they be cheap , well - quality and so on , and now manufacturer in Northern Ireland be have to go to the second - good supplier ; and there be also the additional paperwork that be involve . that all add to cost and make the Northern Ireland economy less competitive , which therefore make it more difficult for it to be viable . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . business be like water : it follow the easy course . when we be an integrated part of the UK economy , the easy and cheap course be to do the great bulk of our trade with GB . that , historically , have be our basic supply market for our raw material and everything else . however , when a fettering of trade be impose , naturally , business will follow the easy route . the easy route now , sadly , be to cease trading from GB and accentuate trading with the EU , and most particularly the Republic of Ireland . the United Kingdom be build on two pillar , accord to the act of Union . the first be a political union , with article 3 establish this House as one sovereign Parliament for the whole United Kingdom ; the second be an economic union , through article 6 , which establish unfettered trade between and within all part of the United Kingdom . that be what article 6 say — that there should be unfettered trade . but along come the protocol , which fetter trade , leave the Supreme Court with no choice but to accept that the protocol have therefore subjugate article 6 . the very foundation of our economic union , article 6 , which say that there shall be unfettered trade , be in suspension . it be no wonder that the consequence of that fettering of trade be a diversion of trade . I thank the hon . and learn Member for give way . it be on that diversion of trade that I wish to speak . he and most Northern Ireland mp will know of the fantastic Colemans Garden Centre in my constituency of South Antrim . it supply quite a number of people across Northern Ireland who have have difficulty in get plant and fruit bring across from their main supplier , McIntyre Fruit , in Scotland . just before this debate , the manager of Colemans Garden Centre tell I that he have be in contact with Stuart McIntyre who say that he have just pick up a contract to supply a firm in Japan . he say that , bureaucracy - wise and administration - wise , it be easy for a supplier in Scotland to supply into Japan than it be to supply across the 14 - mile stretch of water into Northern Ireland . that be the absurdity of where we have get to , and it have be accentuate by our subjection to the EU ' s general product safety regulation . those regulation provide that if a company be supply into Northern Ireland from outside the EU — in other word , from GB — it must have an agent resident within the EU . the company must complete the paperwork on the origin of its good and on the custom declaration , and it can not do so without employ an agent within the EU . anyone who know anything about business will know that that be add cost that will cause many business to say , " Northern Ireland be not a huge market to start with , so I shall just not bother with it . " that be what all our business in Northern Ireland be suffer from . I congratulate the hon . and learn Member on secure this debate . small business in my constituency have tell I that they be now have to pay his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs a duty for buy good from english supplier and then sell the same good in Northern Ireland to the Northern Ireland consumer , remain within the internal market . last Friday , one trader tell I that he be now have to pay more in duty to HMRC than the invoice be for the good . that be because HMRC do not trust that the good will remain , but assume that they will be sell into the EU . do the hon . and learn Member not agree that the same hmrc display great trust and acceptance of vat declaration , on the premise that they will be check at random , than it do for internal trade within the United Kingdom ? what a backward step that be . I agree . let we just think about the Irish sea border . give the infinitesimal amount of good and trade that cross that border — infinitesimal when compare with the proportion of EU trade — it be incredible that it have 20 % of all the check across the whole of the EU . that infinitesimal amount when set against the totality of EU trade warrant 20 % of all the check in the EU . it would be easy to bring in good from Belarus into the EU than it be to bring good from GB into Northern Ireland . the hon . and learn Member talk about that trade be infinitesimal — 0 . 4 % of EU trade crosse that border , yet it account for 20 % of check . do he agree that that will not be the story of the future ? in my constituency , we be already build a £ 140 million EU control post on a 10 - acre site . once that be open , there will be much more scope to check good to an even great degree . if that be not the point of have such a large EU border post in the middle of the United Kingdom , what be ? that be the point , because it be an EU border . EU trade law govern the irish sea border . EU official , under the protocol , have the right to supervise check . when we have the full panoply of facility that be be build at Larne and at other port , I fear that we will see the muscle of EU inspection . the protocol give the EU , which boast that the price of Brexit would be Northern Ireland , the upper hand in that regard . I return to the point that the protocol be imbue with a political motivation , and that motivation be not to get Northern Ireland the good of both world . my goodness , what a con that idea be . the protocol be suppose to make Northern Ireland a Mecca , a Singapore of the west , but we now know that there have be no uplift whatsoever in foreign direct investment . why ? because a manufacturer come to Northern Ireland be interested not just in sell good out of Northern Ireland , but in where it be get its raw material . when a manufacturer be tell that its basic supply line have to pass through an international custom border control by the EU , the shine soon go off the prospect of invest in Northern Ireland . we be in a pretty dire situation , which be get bad , and which have massive constitutional and economic implication , but I fear that the Government be deaf and blind to the issue , because they do not want to face the consequence . they be hand in glove with the EU , dismantle Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom , and set we on a course for the economic marry with the politic , and Northern Ireland cease to be . we be tell by the previous Administration that with the new green lane and the Windsor framework , all would be glorious — it could be the good of both world . do the previous Administration mislead the House ? not just the previous Administration ; I think there have be gross , calculated and deliberate misleading about the protocol from day one . we be tell that the green lane be go . it have not . we still have to do custom declaration . we still have document check , but all our raw material must , by dint of the protocol , come through the red lane , so they must be subject to all the rigour of the EU ' s international border . that be what will cripple our economy . we have see it in small craft sector . niche sector that depend on small supplier be give up . when that bite , as it will , we will see that right across our economy . the Government need to find some dignity and stand up for this United Kingdom , which be not just Great Britain but include Northern Ireland . it be time to put some mettle into defend that position , and to row back from the disastrous destructive element that the protocol have bring we . I congratulate the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) on secure the debate . the House , once again , have be leave in no doubt but that he speak about Northern Ireland ' s trading arrangement with fervour and sincerity , as he do in the Westminster Hall debate in November , to which I respond , and in the debate on his private Member ' s Bill in December , to which the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland reply on the Government ' s behalf . on the Windsor framework , his position be quite clear : he be oppose to it . the Secretary of State have outline that on a number of occasion , both he and the Under - Secretary have respond to issue that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) have raise . he will be aware that I write to he about a month ago about the problem with horticultural industry trade between Scotland and Northern Ireland , but I have yet to get a response . I can only apologise to the hon . Gentleman . I try hard to be punctilious about respond to correspondence . those watch will have note what he say , and he can , I hope , anticipate receive a reply from I very soon . for the Government ' s part , I want to be equally clear . we need to have a system in place for manage a unique set of circumstance . the system we have be the inevitable result of leave the European Union . that be where this all begin ; if that have not happen , we would not be have this discussion . what do that result in ? two trading entity — the United Kingdom and the European Union — with different rule , but an open border between they . that be to be find nowhere else in the world . in other word , all of we together — everyone have to take responsibility for what they argue for , and for the consequence of that — face the question : how do we deal with the unique situation of two trading entity with different rule have an open border between they ? the way not to deal with it be to say , " we , the United Kingdom , will hand over part of our territory to EU jurisdiction . we will put it under the EU ' s custom code , which will decree the rest of the United Kingdom a foreign territory . we will subject that part of our territory to have 300 area of its law not make in the United Kingdom ; law in those area can not even be amend in the United Kingdom . it will be foreign law impose . " this could have be deal with by mutual enforcement . we could have say , " we want to trade with each other , and we want to be neighbourly , so we will guarantee , on pain of criminal conviction , that anything we send into your territory meet your standard and vice versa . " why do thing have to be make complicated , at the expense of jettison Northern Ireland from the United Kingdom economically and constitutionally ? the hon . and learn Gentleman argue in favour of what he call mutual enforcement , but that be not a credible basis for resolve the dilemma create by our leave the European Union . indicate dissent . the hon . and learn Gentleman may disagree . I be express the Government ' s view , which be that it be not a credible basis . one thing be absolutely clear : the answer be never to try to wish the dilemma away and pretend that it do not exist . I be afraid that , at time , it have appear as though that argument have be advance . the first go at try to find an answer be the Chequers plan , which do not get support . the Northern Ireland protocol be the second go , but that be never go to work — I make that argument as an Opposition back Bencher — so the Windsor framework be negotiate . there be no deny that the Windsor framework represent a huge improvement on the prospect create by the Northern Ireland protocol . the Secretary of State say that the situation be unprecedented , and that unique arrangement have therefore be put in place . the Government recently recognise that the flow of trade from the Irish Republic through Northern Ireland into GB could cause a situation where good have to be check to safeguard the GB market , yet they have be able to put in place arrangement , without all this elaboration , that do not require law to apply to trader in the Irish Republic ; they be simply check away from the border . if the unique situation of trade from GB into Northern Ireland , which have a non - check border with the Republic , have to be deal with through a labyrinth of regulation , why be it possible to avoid that in the other direction ? if such arrangement can work from Northern Ireland to GB , why can they not work from GB to Northern Ireland ? the answer be this : as a sovereign country , it fall to we to decide how we check good that arrive in our territory . for quite a period after our leave the European Union , the last Government be not check stuff come across the channel , first , because there be nowhere to do the check , and secondly , because they be concern about delay , shortage and add cost for the consumer . they repeatedly put off implement check . at the same time , british exporter be experience the full impact of check on the good that they send the other way , across the channel to Calais and the rest of the European Union . it be for sovereign country to determine what check they apply . the same truth apply to the European Union ; it have a single market . we be a responsible country . some may argue that we should be irresponsible and say , " well , this be not our problem ; let we leave it to the EU to sort it out . " in the end , we have to have a negotiate answer to the question create by our departure from the European Union on the good that cross that non - existent border . the one thing that almost everybody agree on during the Brexit debate be that the border need to remain as it be . that open border be important for a whole host of reason , not least the extraordinary progress that Northern Ireland have make in the 26 year since the signing of the Good Friday agreement . the question , therefore , be : how do the EU ensure that good that cross that border and come into the Republic , and go on to France , Germany or Greece , meet the rule ? in exactly the same way , we would ask : how do we know that good come into the United Kingdom meet our law ? the only way to do that be with a negotiation . the right hon . Gentleman say that it be up to a sovereign nation to look after its own border and determine its own check . do he accept that there have be trade diversion within the United Kingdom ? if so , do he accept that it be within the Government ' s remit to use article 16 or drop the check to protect trade within our sovereign border ? I have only just begin my remark , but if the hon . Gentleman will bear with I , I shall shortly come to the point that he raise . the Windsor framework protect the UK internal market , while , as I argue a moment ago , enable the EU to be confident that its rule will be respect . the Government ' s view and my view be that that be the responsible thing to do in the circumstance , because this government support sustainable arrangement for Northern Ireland that respect its particular circumstance — indeed , they be unique — and its place in the Union , and that uphold the Good Friday agreement . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ' s central argument this evening be that we should trigger article 16 , the unilateral safeguard in the Windsor framework . to do that would be contrary to Northern Ireland have stable arrangement for trade , now and in future . it would disregard the benefit that the Windsor framework offer for business — indeed , the benefit that be actively rely upon by business , include those that be take advantage of Northern Ireland ' s unique access to the UK and EU market — [ interruption . ] the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim shake his head , but I have meet business that have tell I how they be take advantage of that dual market access . I meet business in my constituency that can see what Northern Ireland have get out of these unique arrangement . those benefit will be enhance by the UK internal market " facilitation " — that be the phrase — that will come into force in the near future , and that will , on a durable and legally binding basis , support the smooth flow of good across the whole of the UK when the next phase of the UK internal market system be implement this year , without , for example , unnecessary international custom paperwork . we have see the benefit of negotiate a way forward . there be unilateralism , as the hon . and learn Gentleman argue , and there be the benefit of negotiation . in respect of agrifood and sanitary and phytosanitary measure , we have be able to lift the old ban on the movement of seed potato . not all those problem have be solve — I be the first to acknowledge that — but it be an improvement compare with the situation before . we be now able to apply UK public health and safety standard to agrifood on the basis of primacy for good stay in the United Kingdom move under the Windsor framework scheme . we have reach agreement with the EU on tariff rate quota , enable business from Northern Ireland to import steel and agrifood product under UK tariff rate . we also have an active assembly that be scrutinise the regulation and raise its view — [ Laughter . ] well , I will come back to that point later on . medicine for the whole of the UK be now authorise by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency , and we have ensure that Northern Ireland benefit from the same vat , alcohol duty and other taxis as the rest of the UK . all of those be undoubted benefit for Northern Ireland . they be benefit of the framework that support Northern Ireland ' s access to the two market , and from which this integral part of the United Kingdom , which Northern Ireland be , uniquely benefit . this be possible because we have a lawful and sustainable agreement , in stark contrast to what the hon . and learn Gentleman have propose as a way forward . I would be the first to acknowledge from this Dispatch Box that the Windsor framework be not perfect . we all know that . where problem arise with the practical operation of the framework , this Government and the EU have try to show that we can work through they in a constructive and pragmatic way , because that be what we have to do . for example , have listen to business , we take a pragmatic decision to extend on the timetable for implement the new arrangement on parcel . one of the consequence of do that be that the introduction of the new , less onerous custom arrangement be put off , because the EU ' s view be that we need to do the parcel at the same time in order for the new custom arrangement to come in . another example be the horticultural sector , where , in the last month the restriction on the movement of two specie of plant be remove . if we be talk about tree , I think that take it up to 23 , include our beloved silver birch and , I be advise , a number of variety of cherry tree that be sort out at the end of last year . on the question of the Stormont brake , we act on the concern that the Northern Ireland Assembly raise about the potential implication of the new rule on chemical label , font size and so on by commit to consult on take forward measure across the UK that will protect the UK internal market . I would just point out — because the hon . Gentleman look slightly sceptical — that there be a high bar to be meet for the Stormont brake . when I receive the application as Secretary of State , I be under a legal obligation to consider the application under the rule of the Stormont brake , and I make the decision that I do . in the end , what the Government announce be move towards the same outcome that those who have raise the concern in the first place want , just by different mean than they have seek . in the end , the Stormont brake process actually work to achieve the outcome that the Assembly want . I think the Secretary of State should listen to himself . what he be say to the House be that we should be grateful for some sort of dud mechanism to deal with the situation whereby the right to make law in 300 area have be gift to a foreign power , and that people elect in Northern Ireland can have no say in those law and can not amend , move or bring they into effect . he say that we should be grateful that , in those 300 area of law , we might be able to go to the EU and say , " please , Sir , would you ever mind just make that a little well ? " really ? where be the sense of dignity from this United Kingdom , that we should so prostrate ourselves to a foreign unelected jurisdiction — elect by no one in the United Kingdom — allow they to make our law , and then claim as a victory the fact that we have a right to go and ask they to make some change ? but the Secretary of State have fail to answer the question . there be trade diversion — what be he go to do about it ? I be not ask anyone to be grateful for anything ; I be simply point out to the House the problem that be create in the first place when we leave the European Union . it be punishment . if I hear the hon . and learn Gentleman correctly , from a sedentary position he say , " punishment " . I could not disagree more . I would encourage he to reflect on what he have say , because I do not think that he acknowledge that there be an issue there that have to be address , and wish it away be never go to work . I be remind of the wee song we use to sing in Sunday school many year ago : " so high , you can ' t get over it , so low , you can ' t get under it " . the Stormont brake do not work because it be too high and too low ; it be just not functional . in my intervention on the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) , I refer to the HMRC cost . to give the Secretary of State an example , last week a business say that the HMRC charge have get to the stage where they be even more expensive than the good the business be bring in . there have to be something wrong when it get to the stage where it be not the issue of get the product across but the cost factor . could the Secretary of State look at that , because there be something wrong with a system that end up cost we more , when it do not cost that amount before the Brexit system come in ? if the hon . Gentleman wish to provide I with further information about the particular example he have raise , I will of course look at it . on trade , I have a slightly different set of figure from those that the hon . and learn Gentleman use . from 2020 to 2023 , purchase in Northern Ireland from GB go from £ 13 . 4 billion to £ 16 . 2 billion — an increase of 20 . 7 % . sale to the year end December 2023 from Northern Ireland to GB rise by 12 . 4 % , to £ 17 . 1 billion . he use a phrase at the beginning of his speech — I hope I write it down correctly — the " natural inclination of trade " . I would simply observe that the inclination of trade be a consequence of decision that individual and firm make , and those pattern change over time depend on what they want to buy or sell and what the market itself look like . the point I be make , without seek gratitude , be that in every one of the example I have just give , the Government work to resolve the challenge we face , work with stakeholder in Northern Ireland and with the EU , in what I think be a constructive and mutually beneficial way . that be what a responsible Government do , include abide by commitment in international law on the world stage . the hon . and learn Gentleman advocate trigger article 16 . that measure refer both to trade and to instance where serious economic , societal or environmental difficulty be liable to persist . give that most good be flow relatively smoothly between Great Britain and Northern Ireland , how can it be argue that we be face those difficulty ? I would just make the point that if one go to the port , the lorry come off and most of they go on their way — the good be move . that be in contrast to the argument that the hon . and learn Gentleman put towards the end of his speech , when he use the phrase " cripple " in relation to the Northern Ireland economy . I have see no evidence that the Northern Ireland economy , which , by the way , have the low unemployment in the whole of the United Kingdom , be be cripple by the matter that we be discuss . rise — I will give way , but then I will make progress . the Secretary of State be be very generous with his time . he just say most good be flow freely . do he not agree that he should amend that to say , " in certain sector , most good be flow freely , but in certain other sector , they most certainly be not " ? it depend on the hon . Gentleman ' s definition of " freely . " there be requirement that certain good must meet . there be the retail movement scheme and the horticultural scheme , and certain paperwork and document be require , look forward to the custom requirement be reduce later this year — hopefully when the new arrangement come in — but the good move , and I do not think that anyone in the debate can stand up and say that the good be not move in those circumstance . as I have indicate , the Windsor framework represent a step forward . although I respect the sincerity with which the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim make his argument , I do not believe that current circumstance meet the article 16 test . pull that lever in the current circumstance would actually throw away the progress secure by the framework and damage the good faith that have be build up in take the framework forward . we all need to remember that , not long ago , we have a Government who sign an international agreement and then set about show that they have no intention of honour it . that do extraordinary damage to the United Kingdom ' s international reputation . rise — the hon . and learn Gentleman have have quite a lot to say and I have give way to he three time , so I hope he will bear with I while I continue my remark . in the past , the idea that the UK would be a country that sign an international agreement and then renege upon it would have be extraordinary to we all in this House , but that be what happen in very recent living memory , and it be why I put this point to the hon . and learn Gentleman . the last Government negotiate the Windsor framework . I stand up in the House and support it . the opposition support it at that time , and I vote for it because I genuinely believe that it represent a significant step forward . but if we do not honour the most recent agreement that we have sign with the European Union , why would it wish to reach agreement on what this Government be currently seek , in particular on an SPS veterinary and agrifood agreement ? this Government have come in say that we want to do that , while the last Government appear to say , " well , the trade and co - operation agreement be all we want — we don ' t want anything else . " this Government have a very different view : we want to negotiate an SPS veterinary and agrifood agreement , and that would help considerably with some of the issue that have be raise during the debate . the Government will continue to listen to the concern of business and respond pragmatically . I have listen intently to the Secretary of State ' s contribution and I be somewhat bemused by some of what he say . he speak of business in his constituency that be jealous of what Northern Ireland business have . what we have in Northern Ireland be increase cost , increase paperwork and impediment to trade . it be increasingly difficult for engineering , agrifood and horticultural business in my constituency . I have invite the Secretary of State to visit those business , but I be still wait . I encourage he to come to Northern Ireland and listen to the business that be impact by the protocol and the Windsor framework on a daily basis . I also hear today about two plant that have be add to the ever - lengthen list of plant that be not available to Northern Ireland , well whoop - de - do - da - day — how brilliant and great for Northern Ireland . when be we go to get real and address the real problem that exist with the protocol and the Windsor framework ? kind though it be of the hon . member to encourage I to come to Northern Ireland , as she know I be in Northern Ireland on a very regular basis and a little while ago I have a meeting with she and two organisation , at her request . I meet business on a very regular basis . I meet the Northern Ireland Chamber of Commerce and Industry Brexit work group and I always do my level well to respond to request for visit from colleague in the House of Commons , include the hon . Lady , but there be only so many hour in the day . I want to point out that the independent monitoring panel , which I meet for the first time yesterday , have start its work . establish the panel be a commitment make in the safeguarding the Union Command Paper . its job will be on the basis of the evidence and it will be provide with datum on the flow of good between Great Britain and Northern Ireland to say whether the UK internal market guarantee be be meet . the first six - month reporting period commence on 1 January and will conclude on 30 June 2025 , follow which the IMP will publish its assessment and any recommendation . I commit to the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim , and all those who contribute to the debate , that I shall consider the report with the same attention to detail that he have show in forward his argument today . to conclude , this Government be commit to Northern Ireland . they be commit to the United Kingdom and to implement the Windsor framework in a manner that be consistent with protect Northern Ireland ' s place within our internal market . question put and agree to . House adjourn .