Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — mineworker ' Pension Scheme : live Standards what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to the mineworker ' pension scheme on the living standard of recipient . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to the mineworker ' pension scheme on the living standard of recipient . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to the mineworker ' pension scheme on the living standard of recipient . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to the mineworker ' pension scheme on the living standard of recipient . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to the mineworker ' pension scheme on the living standard of recipient . in the Budget , the Government decide to transfer the mineworker ' pension scheme investment reserve to member of the scheme . at the end of last month , the first increase in payment be make to over 100 , 000 ex - miner and their family . that have mean an extra 32 % rise in people ' s pension each month — an average of £ 29 per week . the overturning of that historic injustice demonstrate the difference make by a Labour Government . I thank the Secretary of State for that reply and for his attentive engagement on the issue . I understand that british coal staff superannuation scheme trustee write to the Department last month with reform proposal . I urge the Secretary of State to meet they as soon as possible to rectify the long - stand injustice , especially give the increase age and decline health of the beneficiary . I should say that the praise all go to the Minister for Industry , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) , for the progress that have be make . she be in sole charge of the issue . I know that she have be engage with the trustee of the BCSSS ; indeed , I believe she meet they yesterday . she know the point my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) be make about that scheme . in Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , 1 , 600 miner receive the big number of increase payment from the mineworker ' pension scheme in Wales . all of my uncle on my mum ' s side be miner . Dessie Winter , who be alive and well , will benefit from the MPS change , but my uncle Georgie and Jackie be pit supervisor who pay into the separate National Coal Board staff pension scheme . they have sadly pass , but their colleague deserve fairness . since 1994 , the Government have receive £ 3 . 1 billion from the BCSSS . will the Secretary of State say if he will look again at the staff side ' s surplus payment to benefit our pensioner ? my hon . friend make his point with customary eloquence . I know from personal experience that there be people who be wait for the injustice to be remedie but unfortunately die before that happen . he refer to part of the issue raise by the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee , as it then be , about 50 : 50 surplus sharing . I know my hon . friend the Minister for Industry be look at that . correct the injustice in the mineworker ' pension scheme have make an incredible difference to the former miner in my constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar after so many year . at the weekend , I meet representative from the BCSSS in Fife , include the man and woman who be particularly affect by that scheme and the woman who work in the canteen and other area , who feel that they have be leave behind by the change to the MPS . will the Secretary of State meet campaigner in Fife and across Scotland regard this issue , and will he ensure that he make progress as quickly as possible to correct the injustice that those people have suffer as well ? I know from my constituency that there be a strong feeling about the BCSSS . that be why my hon . friend the Minister for Industry have move at speed to meet the trustee . the scheme be not exactly the same in some of their arrangement , but my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and ( Graeme Downie ) be right to say that there be certainly a read - across from some of the injustice in the MPS , and I know that the Minister for Industry be look at that . as a Collier , I welcome the Government ' s announcement on the mineworker ' pension scheme . however , as the Secretary of State have hear , the BCSSS member , include my constituent Mitch Wainwright , have raise concern about unequal treatment , give the similarity between the scheme . what step be the Secretary of State and the Minister take to ensure that those former British Coal employee be treat as equitably as those in the MPS ? my hon . friend be right about the read - across and the sense that the injustice that have be remedie in the MPS need to be remedie in the BCSSS . there be also a real need for speed . that be why my hon . friend the Minister for Industry be on the case , as she be so brilliantly on the MPS , deliver in less than five month the justice that the Conservative Government never deliver in 14 year . in my constituency of Makerfield , more than 500 people stand to benefit from change introduce by this Government to the mineworker ' pension scheme . for year , those people and their family stand by and watch as the Conservative Government steal their pension and disrespect their work . I want we to celebrate our industrial past and those who make this nation wealthy and power our industrial revolution . do the Secretary of State agree that we need to do more to remember the legacy of mining as well as to drive up the living standard of those on the mineworker ' pension scheme ? my hon . friend be right . I think I be right in say — my hon Friend the Minister for Industry and I have have a discussion about this — that almost every constituency — it be every constituency . every constituency have member of the MPS who be benefit from this . I hope the conservative party welcome a Labour Government act on this injustice — there be not much sign of that , though . my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) make the point about commemorate the work of miner , which be something that I feel strongly about and that we will pursue . I be sure that any of my constituent who stand to benefit from this increase will welcome it , but how many member of the mineworker ' pension scheme will be lose out on winter fuel payment worth up to £ 300 due to the decision that this Government have take ? this be actually to do with the disastrous economic legacy that be leave by the conservative party . the truth be that , even in tough time , the Labour Government be show with their decision on the MPS how we can make our society more just . one of the question I be most frequently ask when I be the trustee of one of the large local authority pension scheme be what more the fund could do to tackle climate change , particularly in relation to investing in fossil fuel company . will the Secretary of State update the House on the conversation that he have be have with the Pensions Minister to ensure that pension fund do their bit to help get we to net zero ? that be an excellent question , Mr Speaker . I will write to the hon . Lady with a good answer . I be pleased to see the Secretary of State say last week that those who host clean energy infrastructure should benefit from it . when landowner and developer in my constituency be cash in on build new solar , my constituent in Bicester and Woodstock think that it be only fair that benefit be share . will the Secretary of State tell I whether he will follow the model of other government in set a mandatory — order . let we try somebody else . I should declare an interest in that many of my relative across south Wales be former miner . in the autumn Budget , the Government quite rightly make the decision to end the pension injustice for miner who be part of the mineworker ' pension scheme , but they do not do the same for the 40 , 000 miner who be part of the british coal staff superannuation scheme , include 151 former miner in my own constituency . will the Government guarantee that these man and woman get the pension they deserve and explain why they will have to wait long for justice than many of their former colleague ? the hon . Member and I both have constituency interest in this matter , and he be right to say that . none the less , I say gently to he that no action be take on this for a very , very long time — indeed , since privatisation . this Government take action in the Budget in less than five month . that be the difference . I have make it absolutely clear that my hon . friend the Minister for Industry be now turn her excellent attention to the BCSSS . rise — I be not sure whether there be many coalmine in Strangford , but come on then — I call Jim Shannon . may I welcome what the Government and the Minister be do on this matter ? this good scheme take care of an injustice from some 30 year ago . there be those in Northern Ireland who work in the mine , and their family be still concerned about this issue . can we have a timescale for the completion of the work on the british coal staff superannuation scheme , which some of they would have qualify for ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I be glad that he , too — like everyone else in this House , accord to my hon . friend the Minister for Industry — have constituent who will be benefit from this work . the good I can say to he on this issue , which have now be rightly raise a number of time , be that the Minister for Industry will have hear the call make with real urgency , which I think we all recognise , and will act accordingly . community Energy Projects what step he be take to support community energy project . community energy will play a pivotal role in our mission for clean power . last week , we publish the clean power action plan , which contain more information about how we will meet this world - lead mission , and the report confirm that community energy will play an important role , particularly through great British Energy . renewable energy scheme on community building in my Oxfordshire constituency of Didcot and Wantage , support by the Low Carbon Hub in Oxford , have mostly benefit building owner up to now . would the Minister support more flexibility in local energy system and allow local energy trading to get more support for renewable energy scheme in our community , so that more local people can directly benefit ? the hon . Gentleman make an incredibly important point about how local community group can benefit from not just host the community energy , but from be able to sell locally . we have have a number of conversation on this topic already . I most recently meet the community energy contact group , which do a lot of work to look at what regulation there might be , and we be happy to look at any proposal that come forward . we want to see a revolution in community energy right across the country so that more community can benefit . under the previous Government , we have an energy market that work for nobody . it be bad for consumer , and we also see many energy company go out of business as the Government lose any grip on the industry . do my hon . friend agree that with the great stability we have under this new Labour Government , there be opportunity for community energy come forward as part of the recovery of our whole energy infrastructure ? it will not surprise the House that I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend , who , as always , make an incredibly important point . he be right that stability be key , but so too be this Government ' s commitment to invest in community energy . we have commit to upwards of 8 GW of energy from community source over the course of this Parliament up to 2030 . that commitment ensure not just that we have an energy mix where community benefit , but that they benefit from the economic and social advantage of own the energy they produce . community energy scheme provide a great opportunity for local community to take ownership of clean energy production . in Glastonbury and Somerton , we have see the benefit as Avalon Community Energy project around Glastonbury be project to save 1 , 000 tonne of carbon per year . how will the Minister support community energy scheme and ensure that they play a fair and full role in create clean energy ? the hon . Member have raise community energy on a number of occasion in this place , and I know she be a champion of it . she be right to highlight the example of where community energy can make a huge difference . one of the key area we want to drive forward be the local power plan , which will be deliver by Great British Energy . unfortunately , her party do not in the end support the creation of great British Energy , but I hope they will change that position and see the huge advantage of invest through great British Energy in scheme like the one she mention , but also of help to build capacity in community group so that they be capable of drive those project forward . I declare the interest that I be a Unite the union member . community all across Scotland rely on the Grangemouth refinery for their energy . as closure loom , Unite have give the Government a plan that will save job , help hit sustainable aviation fuel target and build new green industry for the future . it be not too late to save those job and achieve the just transition that my community desperately need . will the Secretary of State agree that the plan have great potential and agree to meet Unite to see what the Government can do to achieve a truly just transition for the refinery worker and keep Scotland ' s only refinery work ? as my hon . friend know , we have meet Unite on a number of occasion over the past few month since Petroineos make the disappointing decision to follow through on its closure plan for the Grangemouth refinery . it be important that we look at every possible option , and we have do . it be also important that the Government be clear that we want to see a long - term sustainable future for the refinery site . that be why we invest in Project Willow , which at the moment be come up with credible investable proposition for the site . we want to protect the worker and do whatever we can to ensure a just transition at Grangemouth and for industry right across the country , but those option need to be long - term and sustainable so that we do not drive worker back into this process again a few year down the line . we be committed to ensure that we invest in long - term sustainable proposition for the site , and of course we will meet anyone and discuss any proposition to help make that happen . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be so good to hear the Minister affirm the need to bring the public onside , as well as private sector investment , to achieve the transformation towards green power and net zero . the Liberal Democrats support Great British Energy if community energy be at the centre of the great british Energy Bill . our colleague in the Lords be debate amendment relate to direct participation in and benefit from community energy . will the Minister agree to those proposal if they come to this House ? in the spirit of Christmas , I thank the hon . Lady for all the engagement and discussion we have have — [ interruption . ] the Conservative Front Benchers groan , but I have joy for their party at Christmas as well . we be absolutely committed to community energy , which be in our manifesto . at every stage of the Bill , we have commit to community energy be right at the heart of what Great British Energy will do . if their lordship make any amendment in their consideration of the Bill , we will of course consider those amendment when the Bill come back to this place . however , I say gently to the hon . Lady that her party do not support Great British Energy , so it can not now claim credit for the thing that great British Energy will deliver . New Energy Infrastructure : community Benefit Scheme if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of establish a community benefit scheme for household near new energy infrastructure . we have make clear , through the clean power action plan that we announce last week , that where community host clean energy infrastructure , we will ensure that they benefit from it . there be many option in that area , include community fund and direct support for household , and we be explore all those option to ensure that community can benefit from the clean power mission . there be a proposal to build 65 wind turbine on protect peatland in the neighbour Calderdale council area , which I be staunchly against . to make matter bad , if the development be approve , my constituent will not benefit from any community benefit scheme , despite be on the periphery of the propose location . how will the Secretary of State ensure that my constituent get their fair share of any community benefit scheme should the proposal be approve ? I can not comment on the specific detail of the case . however , I would like to know more about why the hon . Gentleman ' s community might not benefit , because the aim be for all community affect by host infrastructure to benefit in different way . we be look at the option — be they money off bill , or the community benefit fund that exist at the moment — as we work through the answer to the consultation launch by the previous Government . however , we be clear that if community host infrastructure that be nationally important and benefit the whole country , they should benefit from do so . community benefit come in many different form — in my constituency , Ø rste have contribute £ 1 million towards Horizon Youth Zone , and RWE be support Projekt Renewable , which be a box park learning zone — but the most wide - reach benefit be to people ' s pocket . scheme such as the Octopus fan club bring down people ' s bill when the use of renewable be at its high . how can other energy retailer deliver similar saving for consumer ? my hon . Friend ask an extremely important question . all community should benefit from the transformation that we want to make to the energy system . part of the answer be improve how we use smart system right across the energy system , so that people have much more consumer - lead flexibility in their option — we be move forward with that . in the clean power action plan that we publish last week , we commit to do much more to give people the power to take advantage of some of the opportunity she mention . I call the shadow Minister . community engagement and funding be important . with large - scale solar farm plan for agricultural land , do the Secretary of State think that there be any circumstance in which local community might know well than he ? community be , and will always be , able to speak about the plan for their local area , and to contribute to consultation and planning application — we will not change anything about that . however , it be important to say that nationally important infrastructure will need to be build somewhere if we be to have the clean power future and energy security that everybody in this country need . I gently say to the hon . Lady that , even in the most extreme statistic , less than 1 % of land in this country would be use to build for solar . either the Conservatives be in favour of keep we on the rollercoaster of volatile fossil fuel , or they be in favour of build clean power . her party use to be in favour of net zero , but now it seem to be run away from it at speed . warm Homes Plan what step he be take to introduce a warm home plan . what step he be take to introduce a warm home plan . we be get on with deliver our warm home plan . we be set to upgrade up to 300 , 000 home next year . we be introduce new standard in the private rent sector and the social rent sector that will lift 1 million people out of fuel poverty , and we be make it easy for people to install heat pump by remove planning restriction , expand our boiler upgrade scheme so that more people can get a discount and boost the heat pump industry . modelling suggest that one in four resident in North West Leicestershire be in fuel poverty . do the Minister understand the frustration many constituent will feel that , despite be in one of the wealthy country in the world , fuel poverty have become so commonplace ? will she write to I with an outline of the element in the warm home plan that will focus on delivery for those in fuel poverty ? I share the frustration of my hon . friend ' s constituent . the scale of fuel poverty in this country be a shameful legacy of the last Government ' s 14 year of failure . it be a legacy that we be determined to turn around through our warm home plan and our winter support package , and we will do everything we can to make sure that cold , draughty home be a thing of the past . the last Government leave we far too reliant on foreign dictator for our energy need . I congratulate this Government on their focus on end that dependence and make we energy independent . what step be my hon . friend take to reduce bill for resident in my constituency and to far ensure that Britain remain genuinely energy independent ? my hon . friend be completely right . too many people can not afford their energy bill — [ interruption . ] that be your legacy . that be why we be run to deliver clean energy by 2030 and roll out our warm home plan , so that we can upgrade million of home to make they warm and cheap to run . but it be not my legacy — do not worry . the Secretary of State , the Minister for Energy and the Minister for Consumers have all say in this House that the National Energy System Operator ' s report show that the Government ' s 2030 target will lower energy bill . however , the report itself explicitly say that it do not do so , and the chief executive officer of the NESO tell the Energy Security and Net Zero Select Committee last week that it " do not set out " to determine " what bill be for consumer . " will the Minister explain those inconsistency and take the opportunity to correct the record ? I suggest that the hon . Lady actually read the report . on page 77 , the NESO set out in black and white the system cost of a clean power system , and then what it call " bill component result from clean power pathway " and " other bill change " . the total impact in 2030 be to reduce electricity cost by £ 10 per megawatt - hour . of course , as the NESO say , it be for the Government to make the policy choice to reduce energy bill — which we will — but it be absolutely clear that our clean power plan will reduce system cost . Citizens Advice have find that more than a third of private tenant could not afford to heat their house to a comfortable temperature last winter , and in research publish a month ago , it find that 80 % of private landlord have no plan to invest in the energy efficiency of their property in the next five year . can the Minister explain what the Government will do to support and incentivise private landlord to drive up minimum energy efficiency standard in their property , and when they will do it , so that tenant can stay warm all year round ? we know that the quality of too many of our home in the private rent sector be not high enough . that be why we be move forward to introduce minimum energy efficiency standard , so that we can raise those standard , lift 1 million people out of fuel poverty . we be run in order to get that do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . after the Conservative Government ' s failure to tackle insulation , fuel poverty be on the rise . in my constituency , almost 20 % of household with young family member — those between five and 10 year — be fuel poor , live in cold , damp house and choose between eating and heating . while we await the warm home plan that will deal with upgrade current housing stock , will the Minister meet the Minister for Housing and Planning to ensure that all future home will come forward with an energy rating that be a minimum of C or high , but not beyond 2025 for the future home standard ? we be work very closely with Housing , Communities and Local Government Ministers to deal with the future home standard . we recognise that the fact we be build home that be not up to the standard be a problem , and we be get on with fix it . Energy Security what step he be take to improve energy security . what step he be take to improve energy security . last Friday , we publish our landmark clean power action plan , which set out the route towards our world - lead 2030 clean power mission , include wholesale reform of the grid and plan to make it happen . this be the route to get off the rollercoaster of fossil fuel market and deliver energy security , low bill and good job for the british people , as well as tackle the climate crisis . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . give Wales ' s tradition and history of fuel the UK ' s energy need , can the Secretary of State tell we what his plan be to put Wales at the heart of our energy security and net zero agenda ? my hon . Friend ask a really important question . the whole clean power plan be about benefit all four nation of the United Kingdom , include Wales , and we work closely with the Welsh Government on these issue . before this Labour Government come to office , they be actually trailblazer on how we could have publicly own generation , and that be one of the thing that we and GB Energy be work with they on . Meur ras , ha myttin da , Mr Speaker . we have see the terrible consequence for household of fossil fuel energy insecurity , and we can not allow this to happen with the transition to renewable . however , to achieve our net zero goal , we will have to see a massive increase in demand for critical mineral such as tin and lithium , much of the supply and processing of which will be dominate by economically bad actor . will the Minister meet I to discuss how the Government will be mitigate this clear and present danger ? I very much enjoy my trip to my hon . friend ' s constituency before the general election . he be an incredibly powerful advocate for the way his area can source some of the critical mineral we need , include lithium , and he be right about this . the concentration of supply chain , include critical mineral , have take a generation to arrive , but we must unwind it , and it be one of the many thing we be work on as a Government . small modular reactor be less land intensive , be very efficient and would get we to clean energy very quickly if the Government be to get on and actually support some order . as land be in scarce supply , when will the Government get on board with nuclear , instead of shackle themselves to the inefficient , land - destroy , countryside beauty - destroy and inefficient solar . I can tell the hon . Gentleman that we support the SMR programme , and we be drive it forward through great british Nuclear . I be afraid he be make a terrible mistake , which be that we need all of these clean technology at our disposal — we need nuclear , we need renewable , we need carbon capture and storage — and the difference be that this government be get on with it . we have deliver more in five month than the last Government do in 14 year . despite lift the onshore wind ban in England , the clean power action plan show that , by 2030 , 8 , 600 MW of onshore wind will be need in England and Wales , 5 , 000 MW of which will be mainly in Wales , with bit in England . can the Secretary of State outline exactly how Wales will be benefit from this huge ramp up in onshore wind , rather than the benefit be extract out of Wales ? I have to say to the hon . Lady that I do not see it that way . the reality be that the country be totally vulnerable to the rollercoaster of the fossil fuel market . we do not need to look into a crystal ball ; we just need to look at the record : we see the bad cost of live crisis in generation . so long as we be expose in this way , people in Wales and across the country be vulnerable . that be why clean power be so important , and the opposition should get on and support it . I call the shadow Minister . in the clean power 2030 document publish last week , the Government state that they be " progress the post - 2030 generation intervention , with final decision on Sizewell C and the great British Nuclear - lead Small Modular Reactor programme " , but no date be specify for the final investment decision on Sizewell , no date be specify for completion of the down - selection SMR process , there be no indication of a route to market for advanced modular or other technology , and there be no mention of Wylfa at all . so be it any wonder that the nuclear industry hold a suspicion that this Government be not serious about nuclear , that the damascene conversion to nuclear power profess by the Secretary of State be a false one and that , for the Government , it be renewable at any cost and the exclusion of everything else ? I find the hon . Gentleman quite extraordinary , and not in a good way . the last Government leave not only a generalised absolute mess in the public finance , but lot of the programme that he be talk about be not even fund . the difference with this Government and my right hon . friend the Chancellor be that she put the money for Sizewell in the Budget . that be something the Conservatives simply do not understand . [ interruption . ] you get the point . it be we in government who buy the Wylfa and Oldbury site from Hitachi last year , give much - need certainty to the workforce and local community on both site . it be on 22 May that we announce that Wylfa be our preferred location for a third gigawatt - scale reactor , again give a boost to that community and the wide industry . I have three question . be it still the Government ' s intention to reach 24 GW of nuclear power by 2050 ? do the Secretary of State acknowledge that that be impossible without another gigawatt - scale reactor ? if a third gigawatt - scale reaction be plan , will it be build at Wylfa and , if not , what be the future for the Wylfa site ? the hon . Gentleman ' s story about Wylfa say it all . he say his Government have this great plan for Wylfa , but they have no money behind it . we buy the site . yes , but the hon . Gentleman do not say how the power station will be fund . the truth be that this be elementary economic . if thing be announce , they need to be able to be fund , and the Conservatives need to learn that lesson . National Wealth Fund : opportunity for Industry what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on potential opportunity for industry under the national wealth fund . what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on potential opportunity for industry under the national wealth fund . what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on potential opportunity for industry under the national wealth fund . the national wealth fund be deliver a key manifesto commitment to set up a government - back investor — in some way like the sovereign wealth fund we see in other country — that will support the UK ' s industrial strategy and economic growth . it will play a central role in our clean power mission by create job in rapidly grow green industry . my role sit across the Department for Business and Trade , where I work on industrial strategy , and this Department , where I work on industrial decarbonisation , so I have a unique vantage point to see the benefit of the national wealth fund and all the opportunity it will bring . as the Minister know , I be concern about kick - start float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . the infrastructure and supply chain need build out quickly , but in a co - ordinate way , and the previous Government ' s float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme be not enough to do that . will the Minister please confirm that she be work with the wealth fund on a strategy and then speedy investment in port such as Falmouth and the local supply chain , so that they be ready to take on the challenge of float offshore wind ? my hon . friend be a great champion for her area , and we have talk about the opportunity of Falmouth and the surround area previously , and I be sure we will do so again . for too long , our coastal area have lack the job and opportunity they deserve , and we be determined to change that . through the national wealth fund we will invest in our port , and great British Energy will look to crowd in private sector funding to emerge technology such as float offshore wind . we be develop our strategy and work as fast as we can . I welcome the Government ' s publication of the " Clean Power 2030 Action Plan " last week . it will mark a transformative shift towards clean energy that will bring good job and industry to the whole country . the plan propose the use of the national wealth fund to explore nascent renewable generation project . the Minister will know of the potential for tidal range on the west coast . what step be the Department take to explore that potential ? will she meet I to discuss the potential for tidal range project in my constituency ? I would love to hear more , as I be sure would the Minister for Energy , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) . we be committed to all form of renewable energy if they be economical , which be why we ringfence tidal in the late contract for difference auction , which result in six tidal project be successful , secure up to 28 MW . we continue to look at what more we can do to support this more nascent technology , include the role that GB Energy can play in the future . the Government ' s quick action when they take office to commission Project Willow be welcome , but confirmation of the decision by petroineo to close the Grangemouth refinery next year have cause further concern and uncertainty throughout the workforce in the central belt . with the sustainable aviation fuel mandate start in 2025 require 10 % of jet fuel to be SAF by 2030 , what consideration have the Minister give to use the role of the national wealth fund to support the rapid conversion of Grangemouth into a sustainable aviation fuel facility ? I appreciate the uncertainty face by people in my hon . friend ' s constituency . we have Project Willow and the plan for the site ' s future . a joint committee , which I co - chair , have just be set up with the Department for Transport look at sustainable aviation fuel and other option to fund and support that , to ensure that we have that emerge industry . the fund ' s title be the national wealth fund . will the Minister outline what she intend to do to ensure that industry across the nation of the United Kingdom will benefit from it ? the national wealth fund make decision on what it fund and what it do not , but our plan be for the whole country . for too long , this country have be hold back in every corner , and the national wealth fund be a really important part of the future growth of this country in Northern Ireland and everywhere else . do the Minister agree that it be something of a tragedy that the UK , which be surround by the high tidal range on planet Earth after Canada , use so little of that for tidal and marine energy ? she may agree that the reason be that while the lifetime cost of such scheme be as cheap as chip , the up - front cost be expensive . could the national wealth fund ensure that we can build thing — for example , in Morecambe Bay — that will generate secure renewable energy for all our lifetime ? the hon . Gentleman put his finger on the problem . that be what vehicle such as the national wealth fund and GB Energy be look to resolve . we be of course open to it , and we will do what we can . Climate change : nature - base Solutions whether he have have discussion with the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs on nature - base solution to help tackle climate change . whether he be take step with Cabinet colleague to support nature - base solution to climate change . we know that nature - base solution have a key role to play in climate mitigation and keep to 1 . 5 ° C at home and abroad . I have meet the Minister for Nature , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) , and the Government have appoint two special representative for climate and for nature , who will be work closely together too . the climate and nature crisis be now recognise as inextricably interlinked — we can not resolve the climate crisis without address the nature crisis — but that be not recognise in current legislation . will the Minister meet I to discuss my Climate and Nature Bill and its potential to achieve the Government ' s state goal of integrate UK climate and biodiversity policy ? we be not convince that the Bill be necessary as a well - develop legislative framework with legally bind target be already in place , include , of course , the Climate Change Act 2008 and the carbon budget . however , I appreciate the action on both climate and nature and the hon . member ' s commitment to both . I believe that our office be already try to find a date for we to meet . my constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire South be home to the beautiful RSPB Lochwinnoch nature reserve . in addition to support our biodiversity , the reserve serve as a natural carbon sink . globally , wetland hold approximately 20 % to 30 % of the Earth ' s soil carbon despite cover only 5 % of the land surface . will the Minister outline how the Department be integrate wetland and peatland restoration into its strategy for meet the UK ' s carbon capture and storage target ? I be aware of the excellent work be carry out at Lochwinnoch . we know that protect and restore our peatland be essential for tackle the climate crisis . we be commit to restore approximately 280 , 000 hectare of peatland . we be also look at innovative way of get fund into those nature - base solution so that they can thrive . great British Energy : Job Creation what assessment he have make of the potential impact of great British Energy on job creation in industrial community . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of great British Energy on job creation in industrial community . great British Energy will deliver well - pay job in industrial community . it will own and invest in project across the country , it will crowd in private investment , and it will develop those crucial supply chain that will make we more resilient as a country and deliver more job . I be delighted to see the Government ' s commitment to reindustrialise our nation , create thousand of job in the process . this be the difference that a Labour Government can make , clean up the mess of the Tories and put this country back on track . my constituency of Airdrie and Shotts be at the heart of Scotland ' s central belt . once an industrial heartland , it be full of skill and potential wait to be unlocked . will the Minister work with I to ensure that the benefit of the significant job creation that the Government be undertake will be feel in my constituency ? I will work with my hon . friend on create the job that we all want . it have be announce that great British Energy will be locate in Aberdeen , and there be two additional site , one in Glasgow and one in Edinburgh . the national wealth fund have just announce a £ 20 million investment in XLCC , to support a world - lead factory in Hunterston produce cable . that will support 900 job . we have see a £ 1 . 6 million investment by Sarens PSG to provide specialist equipment and skilled worker , and to set up a centre for excellence in Aberdeen . those be the kind of project that we want across our community , in his constituency and beyond . an important aspect of great British Energy ' s work will be ensure industrial strength in all area of the UK . place such as Peterborough be well place to develop high - skilled job and great opportunity in green hydrogen to support that transition , through the work of National Gas in Werrington and our new university campus , Anglia Ruskin University Peterborough . do the Minister agree that the success of GB Energy will be the breadth of opportunity that it create in place such as mine ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . green hydrogen be vital , not just for the decarbonisation of heavy industry but for aviation and maritime . it have the potential to create thousand of very highly skilled job in every region of the country . we have already confirm support for 11 green hydrogen project from Cumbria to Cornwall , and from Scotland to Kent . I look forward to say more on our hydrogen journey soon . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Labour party promise 650 , 000 job through great British Energy , but the Secretary of State have endorse a carbon tax of £ 147 in 2030 — double the Department ' s current forecast . it would be the high carbon tax in the world , and devastating for british industry . can the hon . Lady confirm how many british job would be lose as a result ? I do not recognise those figure at all . I would be interested to see where she get they from — perhaps from her Twitter thread , which contain thing that we do not quite recognise . we inherit a mess in this country — no stability or economic growth , and stagnation . we be fix the foundation and put that right . we will create hundred of thousand of job in the grow green sector of the future . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . we be already see the benefit of our energy superpower mission and investment in job . since the start of November , we have see a £ 1 billion investment in Hull by Siemens Gamesa , support 1 , 300 job in blade manufacturing . Ø rste have announce £ 100 million of order for UK firm , and we have reach financial close on the UK ' s first carbon capture in Teesside . that be what it mean to have a Government deliver job and investment for the british people . there appear to be inconsistency between what Ministers be say about the report by the National Energy System Operator and what the CEO of NESO tell the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee last week . can the Secretary of State answer this clearly : do the NESO report forecast high or low energy bill under his policy ? I be very glad that the hon . Gentleman have ask that question , as the shadow Secretary of State have ask I about that . [ interruption . ] I will answer the question . page 77 of the NESO report say very clearly what happen to overall cost in the system : electricity cost be reduce by £ 10 per MWh . as NESO say , it be for Government to make policy choice that determine the precise impact on bill , but the report be clear that the system will be cheap . it be completely logical to say that that will lead to a reduction in bill . my constituency have the second high number of member on the British Coal staff superannuation scheme in the country ; we have more than 1 , 000 member . do the Minister agree that we need to end the injustice for all former employee on that scheme ? will she visit my beautiful constituency to meet I and member of the scheme ? I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend and member of the scheme . I meet the trustee of the scheme yesterday , and I have commit to talk to the Treasury about their proposal . I call the shadow Secretary of State . labour ' s policy on the North sea will cost the country £ 12 billion in tax receipt , which would be enough to cover the winter fuel payment for many , many year . pensioner will be in the cold this winter , and this be a policy that no other major economy be pursue . how can the Government possibly justify it ? these be more fantasy number from the right hon . Lady . the truth be that the North sea have lose a third of its employment in the past decade . the only future for the North sea be in what this government be do : invest in carbon capture and storage , in offshore wind and in hydrogen . that be the future . that be not my figure ; it be a figure from industry — £ 12 billion in lose North sea tax receipt , in addition to £ 8 billion for an energy company that will not generate energy , and at least £ 200 billion for a 2030 target that we now know will not cut bill . be it not true that pensioner will be sit in the cold this winter to pick up the bill for this Secretary of State ? no . the case be that the Conservatives leave we dependent on fossil fuel , which lead to the bad cost of live crisis in live memory . the tragedy be that they be double down on their fail policy . the only answer for low bill be clean , home - grow energy that we control . I welcome the clean power plan , which the Government publish last week , which lay out the route to energy security and low bill . will my right hon . friend provide more detail on how our new national champion , great British Energy , which be back by the overwhelming majority of the public in Stevenage and elsewhere , will form part of this new plan ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . great British Energy — headquarter in Aberdeen — be already up and run . our plan for Great British Energy will be roll out in the new year . those plan include work with local community for solar on school and hospital , so that we can start cut bill for public service and local community . my constituent be promise £ 300 off their energy bill by the Labour Government . instead , they be have to fork out additional money for great British Energy and to pursue net zero , while the Government take the winter fuel payment away from million of pensioner . how can the Secretary of State justify increase spending on net zero project while his government let pensioner go cold this winter ? the truth be that there be only one way to get bill down sustainably in this country , which be to drive towards clean energy . the Conservatives use to believe that , too ; then , in September 2023 , the former Prime Minister take they on an anti - net zero crusade , and it be only get bad . More than half the home in my constituency have an energy performance rating of d or bad , and a quarter be off - grid , rely on more expensive fuel , so I welcome this Government ' s commitment to a warm home plan . however , with a lot of rural home poorly insulate and not suit to heat pump , will the Secretary of State work with I on a tailor plan for cold , stone - build rural home ? we be roll out our warm home plan , which we want every household to benefit from , and we will ensure that we have the right solution for the right home . I will work with my hon . friend and with member from across the House on solution that every household can benefit from , to ensure that we have warm home that be cheap to run . the spill of fuel oil in the Black sea from russian tanker be yet another tragic reminder of the work that Russia be do to subvert our sanction . what be the Secretary of State ' s assessment of the amount of petrochemical product and their derivative enter our economy from Russia today ? I will not answer the hon . Gentleman directly , but I will say that I be work with my colleague across Government on this crucial issue . we will do everything we can to drive down Russia ' s benefit from its oil and gas industry , because that be a crucial part of the war effort to help Ukraine . sky - rocket energy bill under the previous Conservative Government contribute to the cost of living crisis , and be one of the reason that voter in my constituency choose change with Labour at the general election . will the Secretary of State further outline what change this Labour Government will make to deliver well value to my constituent ? my hon . friend be right about this . we must not have short memory here , because the truth be that the cost of living crisis that we see after Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine not only hit family and business across Britain , but continue to hit they today . that be why the drive for clean power be so important . every solar panel we put up , every wind turbine we erect , and every piece of grid we build make we more secure as a country . the Secretary of State will be well aware of the critical role that the carbon capture schemeat St Fergus will play in the economic growth and potential of north - east Scotland , so can he simply give we a timetable for when he will approve that scheme ? we will look at the scheme in the spending review . I believe that it be important not just to Scotland but to the whole UK , but I want to level with the hon . Gentleman and , indeed , the House : it require significant financial resource . we find the resource for track 1 of carbon capture , usage and storage and we want to find the resource for track 2 , but that , as I have say , will be part of the spending review . in the Government ' s policy paper " Clean Power 2030 Action Plan " , float offshore wind be label a key emerge technology , and development be promise for future round of contract for difference . will the Minister please consider go far , and geographically ringfence contract for difference funding , to ensure that the massive potential of project such as float offshore wind in the Celtic sea be unlocked ? my hon . friend be right to suggest that offshore wind , especially float offshore wind , will play a critical role in our pathway to clean power . we will consider any option to ensure that we get many " test and demonstrate " project through to delivery , and we will say more in come week about what the next round of contract for difference will look like . More than 24 , 000 home in my constituency have an energy performance certificate banding of d or bad , which mean 50 , 000 tonne of avoidable carbon dioxide emission and high energy bill for my constituent . however , the rate of insulation upgrade be too slow for we to meet the Government ' s goal of universal band c rating by 2035 . will the Minister commit herself with more urgency to an emergency home insulation programme with target support for those on low income ? we recognise that not enough be do to upgrade home over the last 15 year , which be why we be absolutely run at this . we will upgrade up to 300 , 000 home this year , and we be put in place our plan to drive up standard in the private rented sector , and to ensure that as many household as possible benefit from home that be warm and much , much cheap to run . in my constituency , there have be strong growth in the purchase of electric vehicle , but we have only half as many public charging point per person as the national average . how can we secure more charging point in public space in rural community ? my hon . friend make an important point about roll out charge infrastructure to all part of the country , and we be work on that with colleague in the Department for Transport . local distribution network in rural area be incredibly important , and introduce great access to the grid — include through Ofgem ' s approval of £ 22 billion to improve distribution network — will enable we to roll out ev infrastructure in rural area throughout the country . this weekend , 50 household in Cleat Hill be able to return home , nine week after the gas explosion there . that be thank to the effort of the local council and the local emergency service but not , I be afraid , to the action of the Government . there have be a deafen silence on whether they will help the council with funding , and whether they will fund a scaling and scoping of the gas reservoir . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for meet I , but will she chivvy her other Ministers along , so that we can get a reply ? I thank the hon . member for that meeting . we be work across Government to ensure that we can provide the support that the community require after that tragic incident . I recently visit the zero - emission boiler manufacturer Tepeo in Wokingham . its owner be thrill by the Government ' s decision that heat battery can qualify for the warm home social housing fund wave 3 , but express concern about whether they could scale up without the same subsidy support and vat relief as heat pump . will the Minister meet I , and representative of Thermal Storage UK , to discuss how we can support heat battery , so that household can become more resilient ? my hon . friend be a great champion of our clean power mission , and I would be very happy to meet he and representative of the sector . seventy - five per cent of voter think that all new home should come with solar panel on the roof as standard . do the Government agree ? I be very sympathetic towards this issue , and we be in discussion with our colleague across Government . watch this space . cheshire be lead the way in CCUS , whether it be in hydrogen production , where it be provide the mean of transition as a new industry be establish , or in hard - to - abate sector such as glass or cement production , where CCUS be a vital decarbonisation component . our strategy be create job , grow our skill base and unlock a low - carbon future . do the Minister agree that it will not be possible to get to net zero without CCUS ? that be absolutely right . the Grimsby to Walpole National Grid scheme will see pylon almost twice the height of the exist one be place across the flat landscape of the fen . why do the Secretary of State think that the cost of chase his unrealistic 2030 target should be disproportionately bear by rural community ? I have great respect for the right hon . Gentleman . the truth be that we need to build the grid , regardless of whether the target be 2030 or 2035 . this government be be honest and open with people in say that the grid need to be build . if we do not build the grid , we will remain massively vulnerable as a country . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . last year , the UK import 43 % of our energy . do the Secretary of State agree that , as well as protect bill payer from the volatility of international fossil fuel market and give we energy independence , we have the potential for economic benefit from export electricity and hydrogen through the clean power plan ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about that . it be about energy independence for Britain , and about become a clean energy superpower that can export energy and benefit as a country . the opportunity be huge , which be why we be get on with it . I think the Secretary of State be now argue that energy bill will fall by £ 300 by 2030 . a simple question : how much will they rise by before then ? I be disappoint in the right hon . Gentleman , but perhaps I should not be surprised . the truth be that there be only one future for Britain that reduce bill for good : a clean power mission . we can carry on be vulnerable , and we can carry on with fossil fuel , but we will be in the grip of petrostate and dictator . this Government be not willing to leave we expose . the Lynemouth biomass power station in my constituency have some very ambitious and exciting project involve carbon capture and storage , but it be wait for some major decision by the Department . will the Minister agree to meet I so that we can tackle these press outstanding issue ? I would be absolutely delighted to meet my hon . friend ; we can talk about data centre at the same time . carbon capture be an incredibly important part of our future . we know that we have to have it in order to decarbonise some of our very hard - to - decarbonise industry , and I would be delighted to talk about the possible job that it could bring as well . local further education college be actively pursue the formation of a skill partnership to meet the opportunity and challenge of potential small modular reactor development in Oldbury in my constituency . do the Minister welcome their proactive approach , and will she join I in meet they to well understand the support that the further education sector need to deliver this vital work ? I would be delighted to meet the hon . member and talk about her plan . what assurance can the Minister give I that energy - intensive industry in Stoke - on - Trent , such as ceramic , will benefit from the investment come from this government and will not get leave behind in our transition to net zero ? my hon . friend make a very good point . we be talk about this issue in the Tea Room only this morning , and I will meet the ceramics sector and he first thing in the new year to talk about some of the challenge it face . we be absolutely committed to support the sector . thirteen oil and gas field have be license for new drilling of dangerous fossil fuel but be still await final approval . the Government pause those decision while do a consultation , but the consultation will not change the science : if we be to meet our climate target , those fossil fuel must stay in the ground . will the Secretary of State do the right thing by the poor in our country , who be always at the sharp end of climate action , and ensure that those licence will not be grant ? this be a Government with a world - lead position when it come to oil and gas , and we will do the right thing for the environment and climate change and the right thing to ensure that there be a just transition in the North sea . on behalf of my constituent , I want to thank the Secretary of State , the Minister of State , the parliamentary private Secretaries and the whole team for the excellent work that have be carry out to deliver justice on the mineworker ' pension . can I urge they to act with alacrity in relation to the British Coal staff superannuation scheme , and may I invite the Minister to look at some of the energy pilot that be make use of mine water from abandon mine working ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who have be a brilliant campaigner on this issue for a very long time . my hon . friend the Minister of State will have hear what he say . this be the difference : this be a Labour Government deliver justice for mineworker across our country and their family , which be all part of deliver our mission for the country . woman ' s State Pension Age Communication : phso report with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the investigation by the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman into the way that change in the state pension age be communicate to woman bear in the 1950 . the state pension be the foundation for a secure retirement . that be why this Government be commit to the pension triple lock , which will increase the new state pension by more than £ 470 a year from this April and deliver an additional £ 31 billion of spending over the course of this Parliament , and it be why government of all colour have a responsibility to ensure that change to the state pension age be properly communicate so that people can plan for their retirement . before I turn to the Government ' s response to the ombudsman ' s report , I want to be clear about what this report investigate , and what it do not . the report be not an investigation into the actual decision to increase the state pension age for woman in 1995 or to accelerate that increase in 2011 — a decision that the then Conservative Chancellor George Osborne say " probably save more money than anything else we ' ve do " . that comment understandably anger many woman and spark the original woman against State Pension Inequality Campaign . the ombudsman be clear that policy decision to increase the state pension age in 1995 and since be take by Parliament and consider lawful by the court . this investigation be about how change in the state pension age be communicate by the Department for Work and Pensions , and the impact this may have have on the ability of woman bear in the 1950 to plan for their retirement . I know that this be an issue of huge concern to many woman that have span multiple Parliaments . like so many other problem that we have inherit from the Conservatives , this be something that the previous Government should have deal with . instead , they kick the can down the road and leave we to pick up the piece , but today we deal with it head - on . the Pensions Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) — and I have give the ombudsman ' s report serious consideration and look in detail at the finding , and at information and advice provide by the Department that be not available to we before come into Government . the then ombudsman look at six case . he find that the Department provide adequate and accurate information on change to the state pension age between 1995 and 2004 , include through leaflet and pension education campaign and on its website . however , decision make between 2005 and 2007 lead to a 28 - month delay in send out letter to woman bear in the 1950 . the ombudsman say that these delay do not result in the woman suffer direct financial loss but that they be maladministration . we accept that the 28 - month delay in send out letter be maladministration , and on behalf of the Government , I apologise . this Government be determined to learn all the lesson from what go wrong , and I will say more about that in a moment . we also agree that the woman suffer no direct financial loss because of the maladministration . however , we do not agree with the ombudsman ' s approach to injustice or remedy , and I want to spell out why . first , the report do not properly take into account research show that there be actually considerable awareness that the state pension age be increase . it reference research from 2004 show that 43 % of woman age over 16 be aware of their state pension age , but it do not sufficiently recognise evidence from the same research that 73 % of woman age 45 to 54 — the very group that cover woman bear in the 1950 — be aware that the state pension age be increase , or research from 2006 show that 90 % of woman age 45 to 54 be aware that the state pension age be increase . secondly , the report say that if letter have be send out early , it would have affect what woman know about the state pension age . however , we do not agree that send letter early would have have the impact that the ombudsman say . research give to the ombudsman show that only around a quarter of people who be send unsolicited letter actually remember receive they or read they , so we can not accept that , in the great majority of case , send a letter early would have affect whether woman know that their state pension age be rise or increase their opportunity to make informed decision . these two fact — that most woman know the state pension age be increase and that letter be not as significant as the ombudsman say — as well as other reason , have inform our conclusion that there should be no scheme of financial compensation to 1950 - bear woman in response to the ombudsman ' s report . the ombudsman say that , as a matter of principle , redress and compensation should normally reflect individual impact . however , the report itself acknowledge that assess the individual circumstance of 3 . 5 million woman bear in the 1950 would have a significant cost and administrative burden . it have take the ombudsman nearly six year to investigate the circumstance of six sample complaint . for the DWP to set up a scheme and invite 3 . 5 million woman to set out their detailed personal circumstance would take thousand of staff year to process . even if there be a scheme in which woman could self - certify that they be not aware of change to their state pension age and that they have suffer as a result , it would be impossible to verify the information provide . the alternative put forward in the report be a flat - rate compensation scheme at level 4 of the ombudsman ' s scale of injustice . this would provide £ 1 , 000 to £ 2 , 950 per person , at a total cost of between £ 3 . 5 billion and £ 10 . 5 billion . give that the vast majority of woman know the state pension age be increase , the Government do not believe that pay a flat rate to all woman , at a cost of up to £ 10 . 5 billion , would be a fair or proportionate use of taxpayer ' money , not least when the previous Government fail to set aside a single penny for any compensation scheme and leave we a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . this have be an extremely difficult decision to take , but we believe it be the right course of action , and we be determined to learn all the lesson to ensure that this type of maladministration never happen again . first , we want to work with the ombudsman to develop a detailed action plan out of the report , so that every and all lesson be learn . secondly , we be commit to set clear and sufficient notice of any change in the state pension age , so that people can properly plan for their retirement . thirdly , I have tasked official to develop a strategy for effective , timely and modern communication on the state pension that use the most up - to - date method , build on change that have already be make , such as the online " check your state pension " service that give a personal forecast of a person ' s state pension , include when they can take it , because one size rarely fit all . as I say , we have not take this decision lightly , but we believe it be the right decision because the great majority of woman know the state pension age be increase , because send letter early would not have make a difference for most , and because the propose compensation scheme be not fair or value for taxpayer ' money . I know there be woman bear in the 1950 who want and deserve a well life . they have work hard in pay job and in bring up their family . many be struggle financially with the cost of live and few saving to fall back on . they worry about their health and how their child and grandchild will get on . to those woman I say : this Government will protect the pension triple lock , so your state pension will increase by up to £ 1 , 900 a year by the end of this Parliament ; we will drive down waiting list , so you get the treatment you need , with an extra £ 22 billion of funding for the NHS this year and next ; and we will deliver the job , home and opportunity your family need to build a well life . I know that many 1950 - bear woman will be disappoint about this specific decision , but we believe it be the right decision and the fair decision . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for work and Pensions for advance sight of her statement , and I thank the ombudsman and his team for their work on this important matter . in March this year , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman publish its final report into the way that change to the state pension age be communicate to woman bear in the 1950 . the report take over five year to produce and reflect the complexity of the issue . it span a 30 - year period across different government , date back to Parliament ' s decision in 1995 for the state pension age for man and woman to be equalise , in a long - overdue move towards gender equality . as the chief executive of the ombudsman set out , the Department for Work and Pensions fully co - operate with the ombudsman through its investigation and provide thousand of page of detailed evidence to support it . it be because we take the work of the ombudsman so seriously that it be right for the Government to fully and properly consider the finding , and we be commit to work with Parliament to provide an appropriate and swift response . however , as the House will know , the general election be call less than two month later . give that it have take Labour five month since the general election to provide its finding , I be sure the Secretary of State would agree that there be insufficient time to take a considered and fair decision between the publication of the report and the election . I be glad that the Secretary of State have pick this issue up since come into office and have bring her statement to the House today . I will be consider it in more detail in the day and week to come , as well as the basis on which she have reach her conclusion . I be sure that the Government ' s statement today will be a huge disappointment to WASPI woman , and I recognise the strength of feeling about the issue . as a constituency MP , I have meet WASPI woman who live in Faversham and Mid Kent and hear their personal story . no doubt campaigner will note the Government ' s apology for the decision make between 2005 and 2007 that lead to a 28 - month delay in send out letter , which the ombudsman identify as " maladministration " . but let we be clear : the decision to provide no compensation be the Government ' s decision , and they need to own it . I be not go to let they get away with say that there be no compensation because of a fictional black hole in the public finance . the country ' s financial position now be a result of their political choice . they should not try to dodge responsibility by suggest to WASPI woman that , if time be different , they might have come to a different conclusion . government compensation should always be base on what be fair and just . that bring I to some question . give the announcement that they will not be provide financial compensation , will the Government put forward any other non - financial form of remedy for the woman affect ? will the Secretary of State be involve the WASPI campaigner in the action plan she have refer to and what be the timeline for that ? the Secretary of State claim that pensioner be well off under Labour , but let we not forget that it be the Conservatives who introduce and protect the triple lock , which have see the state pension increase by £ 3 , 700 since 2010 , and there be now 200 , 000 few pensioner live in absolute poverty . do the right hon . Lady know how many woman affect by her decision be on pension credit ? labour ' s own impact assessment show that its decision to scrap the winter fuel payment will see 5 . 2 million woman lose out . how many of those hit by those cut to the winter fuel payment be also affect by today ' s announcement ? finally , give that the Government have dismiss the recommendation of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , will the Secretary of State set out what implication she see for the future of the ombudsman ? I welcome the overall tone of the hon . Lady ' s comment . I be glad that she be finally consider her party ' s response to the ombudsman ' s report , and I be sure that the whole House look forward to its detailed response to the finding and recommendation , which be not provide when the Conservatives be in Government . I be sorry that the hon . Lady still fail to take responsibility for the state of the public finance . we have take full responsibility for that and have take difficult decision on the public finance . we have also take this very difficult decision in response to the ombudsman ' s report and have provide that to the House as quickly as we have be able , give the huge amount of information we have have to go through . the hon . Lady ask about next step . we have three clear thing that we intend to do . we will produce a detailed action plan . we want to work with the ombudsman on that so that we can ensure that the delay , the maladministration and the 28 - month delay in send out notification never happen again , and I be perfectly happy to consider work with the woman to make sure we get that right . it be extremely important that , wherever possible , we provide personalised , tailor information . pension be a hugely complicated area , and we want people to be empower with that information and knowledge . we have to do it in all sort of different format , because it be individual to the person , and we need to get that right in future . the hon . Lady also mention pension credit and the winter fuel payment . I will say to she , as I do yesterday , that we have see a 145 % increase in the number of claim for pension credit since we launch our campaign . More than 42 , 000 more people be claim pension credit now . we want to deal with yet another thing the Conservative Government leave we with , which be 880 , 000 pensioner not get the pension credit or the winter fuel payment they be entitle to . these be difficult decision . we be a responsible government and we face up to our responsibility . I look forward to member on the conservative Benches finally do the same . this be clearly not a decision that the Secretary of State have take lightly , and an apology on behalf of the Department for Work and Pensions be long overdue , but let we make no mistake : the responsibility for this lie squarely with the conservative party , which oversee the maladministration and kick the can down the road yet again , for we to clear up the mess . that must be put right . can my right hon . friend assure my constituent that a serious case like this will not occur again , and that this Government will continue to do everything we can to support pensioner go forward ? I can assure my hon . friend ' s constituent in Clwyd North that we want to learn all the lesson from the maladministration that we accept take place . we have to get people timely , effective and personal communication , and not just about their state pension age but about all aspect of pension , so that they can properly plan for their retirement . the Pensions Minister and I will go through that with a fine - toothed comb to do everything possible to make sure it do not happen again . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . first , and for the record , the Liberal Democrats play a significant part in government in introduce the triple lock for our pensioner — it be important that people acknowledge that . the Government ' s decision be nothing short of a betrayal of WASPI woman . I know that , as in my constituency of Torbay , across the United Kingdom there will be million of woman who be shock and horrify at that decision . that the Government have inherit an awful state for our economy be no excuse . that the woman be be hit by the mistake of the Tories and that the Labour Government be now use that as a shield be utterly wrong - headed . will the Secretary of State reflect on the decision ? the matter go to the ombudsman for its consider review , and the Liberal Democrats have long support the ombudsman ' s finding . I be shocked that the Government be take a pick - and - mix approach to those finding , and we therefore ask the Secretary of State to seriously reconsider the decision . I gently say to the hon . Gentleman , who I know be not in the House at the time , that the decision to accelerate the increase in the state pension age in 2011 be take by the Conservative and liberal Democrat coalition Government . it be that which anger and annoy many woman and lead to the WASPI campaign . we accept that there be a 28 - month delay in send out letter and we apologise for that , but we do not agree with the ombudsman ' s approach to injustice or remedy . we do not believe that the letter would have have an impact on most , as the ombudsman say , and when 90 % of woman know that the state pension age be increase , we can not accept that that flat rate of payment of up to £ 10 . 5 billion would be a fair or appropriate use of taxpayer ' money . I know that will disappoint some woman bear in the 1950 , but we believe it be the right and fair decision . I share the Secretary of State ' s concern about the black hole that be leave . this will have be a difficult decision for she to make and bring to the House today . however , I think about the many people across all our constituency who have contact we about the matter , include my constituent Valerie , who write to I and say : " we simply can not afford to wait any long for justice give that more than 20 , 000 waspi woman have tragically die since the ombudsman ' s finding be publish more than 6 month ago . " I know that Valerie and many other in my constituency will be very disappointed . the Secretary of State say that she accept the maladministration . do that not then mean accountability ? we do indeed take responsibility for the maladministration between 2004 and 2007 and a 28 - month delay in send the letter out . I want to reiterate to my hon . friend and to the House that this be not a decision about the increase in the state pension age , which so many woman be aggrieve about ; it be about how that be communicate . we accept that those letter should have go out early , but even if we have send those , it would not have make a difference for most . when 90 % of those 1950 - bear woman know that the state pension age be increase , we do not think that the propose compensation scheme be fair or proportionate . that be why we have take this extremely difficult decision . the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s report say what many WASPI woman across my constituency have be say for year , which be that between 2005 and 2007 the DWP and the last Labour Government let they down . I be therefore grateful to the Secretary of State for her apology , but that will come as cold comfort to those who be in this situation in the face of no financial compensation . if I be right in what I hear , she say mitigation be too complicated and that it be someone else ' s fault . that will be no comfort to those impact . what conversation do the Secretary of State plan to have with the WASPI woman to see what more support can be put in place for those most impact ? I meet the WASPI campaign in opposition when I be appoint shadow Work and Pensions Minister . the Minister for Pensions be the first of her kind to meet the WASPI campaign for eight year , and she be happy to meet they again . I say to the hon . Lady , who feel very deeply about the issue , that we will learn all the lesson from what go wrong with the delay in send the letter out , but we do not agree that even if we have do that , they would have make the difference that the ombudsman claim . this be not about the matter be too complicated ; we do not believe that , when 90 % of woman age 45 to 54 know the state pension age be increase , a flat - rate compensation scheme cost up to £ 10 . 5 billion would be a fair or proportionate use of taxpayer ' money . the all - party parliamentary group on state pension inequality have find that huge number of woman have suffer significant financial hardship ; many have even lose their home . the Secretary of State must realise that her apology be welcome , but that it be not enough for they . frankly , it be unprecedented for a Government to agree with the finding of an ombudsman on the one hand , but , on the other , to refuse to initiate redress when clear injustice have occur . what will the Secretary of State say to reassure those woman who have lose everything ? I understand the concern that my hon . friend raise , but I reiterate the finding from the ombudsman ' s report that there be no direct financial loss . we agree that those letter should have be send out early . we will learn all the lesson need to put that right . I be more than happy to discuss precisely how we will do that with the all - party parliamentary group , so that that kind of maladministration of send out letter never happen again . last month , the word " WASPI " make it into the Collins English Dictionary , which be a credit to the campaigner behind it . do the Secretary of State agree that she have go through the ombudsman ' s report with , to use her own word , a fine - toothed comb , in order to get the answer that she always want to find in the first place ? no , I do not agree with that . it be only when we get into government that we be able to see all the information and advice provide by the Department . I do not go into it in the way that the hon . Gentleman suggest ; that be not correct . this report be not about the policy decision and woman against state pension age increase . that decision be take in 1995 , agree to by subsequent Parliaments and deem lawful by the court in 2020 . the ombudsman ' s report be not about the state pension age increase ; it be about how they be communicate . I take responsibility for that and will make sure that we do everything possible to put it right . this be undoubtedly a tough choice . it be welcome that the Government will seek to learn the lesson and develop a new strategy for clear and timely comms . will the Secretary of State reassure the House not only that the strategy will be comprehensive , but that those with accessibility requirement be properly informed of any change ? my hon . friend raise an extremely important point , which be that a one - size - fit - all approach will not work — even if it ever do . we need to provide tailor information in an accessible way — in an easily understand and available format . we will work extremely closely with all the necessary group to develop that information , and , crucially , give sufficient notice . the ombudsman ' s report deal with the decision make between 2004 and 2007 , but what greatly concern many woman and lead to the original WASPI campaign be the decision in 2011 to accelerate and bring forward increase in the state pension age . therefore , that other commitment to give sufficient and timely notice so that people can properly plan for their retirement be extremely important . the Secretary of State say in her statement : " research give to the ombudsman show only around a quarter of people who be send unsolicited letter actually remember receive and read they . " I would like to know the term of that research . do it , for example , say on the envelope , " important financial information affect your pension " ? if something like that be on an envelope , I think that there would be a very different response rate . give that she be have trouble accept that people look at serious letter that really affect they , perhaps the Chancellor could use some of her ability to get these message across , as be so successful in the case of advise pensioner that they would be lose the winter fuel allowance . I be happy to write to the right hon . Gentleman about this research and its finding , which be robust . I reflect on the fact that three of the sample case that the ombudsman look into have receive a letter , but I be more than happy to provide he with the detail of that research . in the framing of my question to the Secretary of State , I first wish to say that I be appal by this announcement . I have campaign with WASPI woman , as have many parliamentary colleague , and this be an incredible let down for they . in my opinion , WASPI woman certainly do not need word of disappointment and hollow statement . what they need be justice . do the Secretary of State not agree with that ? I believe that this be a difficult decision , but the right and fair one . we accept that there have be maladministration . once the Department have reach its decision , those letter should have be send out . for the reason that I have explain , we do not accept the ombudsman ' s approach to injustice , remedy or compensation . we have to take difficult decision in government , but this be about what I think be right and fair . I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the matter in more detail if he so wish . it be a gross understatement for the Secretary of State to say that 1950 woman will be disappoint , especially give that this new Government be set a precedent by ignore an independent resolution process . I signpost constituent to the ombudsman on a regular basis ; we all do . it be one of the way that we hold the Government and Government body to account , and it be a core part of our democracy . can the Secretary of State explain how we can have faith in that process if the Government choose to ignore the ombudsman ' s finding ? give the fact that , as a constituent MP , the Secretary of State herself support the WASPI campaign , can she advise whether the £ 22 billion black hole have have any consequence on her decision making ? we do campaign against the acceleration of change to the state pension age bring forward by the Conservative - Liberal Democrat Government , but that be not what this decision be about . the decision on the state pension age have already be take . I do value the ombudsman ' s role ; I refer many case myself . we accept his finding on maladministration , but we do not accept his view on injustice . none the less , the ombudsman continue to have an important role to play for many constituency mp , and I for one will continue to refer case to the ombudsman , as I always have do . the Government be right to have apologise to WASPI woman today and my right hon . friend be also right to have acknowledge the significant disappointment that will be feel . what be important be that this Labour Government be act to boost pension pot across the country . do the Secretary of State agree that it be important that , through the measure the Government be take , we not only protect pension pot but actually enhance they , so that pensioner be well off ? the pension scheme Bill will do precisely that . one of the really important thing that we want to do be to consolidate small pension pot , so that they deliver well value and well result for those in retirement . that be exactly what that Bill will do . we want to see the very good for pensioner and also the very good for UK plc , which be why our pension reform be so important . my hon . friend the Minister responsible for pension will be deliver on that in the month and year ahead . Anas Sarwar say that , under his leadership , WASPI woman will finally receive the justice they deserve . be the justice they deserve be pay less than their male counterpart throughout their career ? be the justice they deserve be sack or force to resign from their job when they have child ? be the justice they deserve the removal of the winter fuel payment ? why be the Labour Government absolutely determine to take every opportunity to screw over 1950 - bear woman ? I be proud of the last Labour Government ' s record on help the lowest - pay woman pensioner and of the improvement that we deliver . this be not about that issue ; this be about the way that the state pension age be communicate . if the hon . Lady want a different approach , the SNP Government in Scotland can provide that by use the £ 4 . 9 billion settlement — the big ever in the history of devolution — that we have provide . this will be a sad moment for the 4 , 000 woman in Stoke - on - Trent Central who I have campaign alongside for justice and a fair transition . I understand the Secretary of State ' s need to balance the budget , give what be leave by the previous Government , but be this a case of no compensation now because of the economic circumstance that we find ourselves in , or be it no compensation ever ? if we find ourselves in the future in a much well economic state , will she consider re - address this issue and see what compensation might be available for the woman who be affect ? we do not agree with the ombudsman ' s approach to injustice or compensation . we do not believe that send those letter early , even though we should have do , would have make the difference that the ombudsman claim . we do not believe that , give that 90 % of 1950 - bear woman know that the state pension age be increase , a flat - rate compensation scheme cost up to £ 10 . 5 billion be a fair or appropriate use of taxpayer ' money . however , we will learn lesson from that maladministration to ensure that it never happen again . every single one of we in this House rely on the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman to ensure that our constituent get redress . when the PHSO make a similar judgment against Equitable Life , the Government come forward with a compensation programme . will the Secretary of State commit to have a bind vote in this House on the decision , so that the House can decide whether what the Government be propose be justice for WASPI woman ? I certainly do not believe that it be . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman could have encourage his party to do a compensation scheme when he be in government . the reason the ombudsman actually refer the report to Parliament be because he do not believe the last government when they be run the Department for Work and Pensions would deal with it properly . this government take our responsibility seriously , and that be why we have come to Parliament today to make this difficult decision . a Conservative Member say to I this morning that be the Secretary of State for the DWP be probably the hard job in Government , and I think today we can really see that . I pay tribute to the WASPI woman in my constituency , and in particular Gina , who email I regularly about this issue . what reassurance can the Secretary of State give WASPI woman such as Gina that we will do everything we can to support they and to ensure that issue like this do not happen again ? as I say in my statement , I understand that many woman bear in the 1950 face a real struggle and , on this specific decision , they may well be disappoint , but our commitment to pensioner and to the pension triple lock will deliver an extra £ 30 billion into the basic state pension over this Parliament . our investment in the NHS , about which many 1950 - bear woman be desperately worried , of £ 22 billion this year and next , show our commitment to the issue that matter to those woman . as I say , they may be disappoint and , indeed , angry about the decision , but we believe that it be the fair and right decision . however , I would be more than happy to talk to my hon . friend in further detail so that he can pass on comment from WASPI woman in his constituency . I speak on behalf of Helen from my home town of Bampton and the 5 , 500 WASPI woman in my constituency . they be not disappointed ; they be devastate , as be I because — mistakenly , as it turn out — I believe that this Labour Government , who be support by million of woman across this country who rightly turn their back on the Conservatives , have some probity and decency . do the Secretary of State agree that it turn out that they have neither ? no . many former Ministers and current shadow Ministers have make clear that they do not support a compensation scheme , so be this not just another example of this Labour Government have to take the difficult but necessary decision that those member run away from ? it be true this be a long - run issue , span multiple Parliaments , that be deliver to the last government , and we have deal with it . we have deal with it seriously , but also as quickly as we can . we take our responsibility seriously . it be a difficult decision , but I believe it be the right and fair one . how long will we have this government give the excuse that they can not do thing because the last lot do not do they ? will the Secretary of State remember that she be now in government ? when she be in opposition , she and other member of her party campaign for WASPI woman . the fact have not change : administratively , mistake be make and , financially , there be still an impact ; and now the ombudsman have find in favour . she can not hide behind say that " we have no money " . we just have the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero in question boast that he be bung billion of pound to power company , yet we can not honour the commitment make to people who be wrongly treat in the pension system . I hate to disagree with the right hon . Gentleman , but I do not say it be only about there be no money . I say it be because we do not agree that if we have send those letter early , it would have make the difference that he say , and because , when 90 % of woman age 45 to 54 know the state pension age be increase , we do not believe a flat rate be pertinent . I say this to he : we do take the public finance seriously . we have to make difficult decision , and we can not spend more than we have . we will continue with that approach , but base on our value . we do not believe that what have be set out be the right or fair way forward . I have come to the House honestly to make that decision plain , but I would be happy to talk to he in more detail if he would like . the Secretary of State say the report be about the way this be communicate to those 1950 - bear woman and that early letter would not have make a difference , but they would have make a difference to individual ' financial planning , their retirement date , the notice they give to their job , and the wide family arrangement and commitment they have make . there have undoubtedly be loss for those 1950 - bear woman . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) just give the government an opportunity to reconsider that at some point in the future . be she sure that she will not take that offer ? I know my hon . friend care passionately about this issue and many other issue relate to pensioner . I repeat what I say in my statement and , indeed , what the ombudsman say , which be there be no direct financial loss for the woman . this be not about the increase in the state pension age ; it be about how it be communicate . the research show that only one in four people who get an unsolicited letter remember receive or read it , so send those letter out early would not have make the difference . we can not justify a flat - rate compensation scheme or , indeed , an individualised compensation scheme on that basis . when the Secretary of State be in opposition , she say she be a " long - stand supporter " of WASPI woman . give that , what would she say to the WASPI woman in my constituency , the 3 , 300 in her constituency and those across the country who will be disappoint at her rejection of any compensation , even if not at the level the ombudsman recommend ? my party oppose the Conservatives ' decision to accelerate increase in the state pension age , but that be not what the report be about . it be about how those change be communicate and , at the risk of repeat myself , that be why we have take this decision . it be no small thing for a Secretary of State to stand up with the sincerity that my right hon . friend have and to offer an apology on behalf of the Government and accept maladministration , and I know she take that responsibility seriously . I understand her position regard the 90 % of woman who know the pension age be go to change , but among the 10 % who do not realise , people make individual decision about their financial circumstance . will she say more about why she do not feel that it be possible to put an individualised compensation scheme in place for that 10 % ? my hon . Friend ask a reasonable question . the difficulty be we estimate that go through 3 . 5 million woman to find out which one know about their state pension age increase and would have make different decision on that basis would take 10 time the number of staff who administer the state pension for 12 million people , and many year . we do not think that be an affordable or possible programme . the ombudsman himself go through that point , and that be why he propose a flat rate , but I have already say why we think that be not justify when 90 % of those woman know their state pension age be increase . one of the very first constituent who come to I after I be elect in 2017 be Helen , whose decision on her financial future be take just before she receive the letter , which come late — so it do have an impact on she . it also have an impact on the thousand of WASPI woman in my constituency who have contact I over the past seven and a half year . how do the Secretary of State think that any pensioner in this country , regardless of the triple lock , which be the creation of the Liberal Democrats with the Conservatives , can have faith in a Government who have take away their winter fuel allowance and now do not respect the injustice do to they in not compensate the WASPI woman ? our commitment to the pension triple lock , which will deliver an increase of £ 470 in the new state pension from this April and up to £ 1 , 900 extra over the course of this Parliament , back by over £ 30 billion of investment , be a serious investment in pensioner . we believe that the basic state pension be the foundation for security in retirement . if the Liberal Democrats want to come up with a cost proposal to do what the ombudsman say , they be perfectly at liberty to do so , although we think that that be the wrong approach . as my right hon . friend have note , many woman will be disappoint by this decision — include woman I have meet in Central Ayrshire when campaign , since I have be an MP , and at constituency surgery as recently as Friday — even though they know that we be clean up 14 year of Tory mess , dither and delay and failure . care responsibility often fall on woman , and an awful lot of 1950 woman have speak about the financial , emotional and physical pressure that they face in care for a love one . will my right hon . friend set out how the Government plan to support carer over the come month and year ? I have be a lifelong champion of family carer , which be why I have launch an independent review of the overpayment of carer allowance , lead by Liz Sayce , and why the Government have introduce the big ever increase in the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance . that will make a huge difference in enable those who look after the people they love to work at the same time . I understand that many woman bear in the 1950 will be disappoint , but , for all the reason I have set out , we think this be the fair and right approach . however , we will learn lesson from the maladministration — the delay and the failure to send out letter for 28 month — to ensure that it never happen again . this be a very harsh statement . it admit wrongdoing but offer a bitter dose of nothing to a generation of woman who already face prejudice and disadvantage in their career and be catch out by government decision . if the Secretary of State will not reconsider her decision despite be urge to do so by member on both side of the House , what else will she do to ensure that those woman can enjoy level of security in retirement close to equal those of their male counterpart ? the hon . Lady raise a valid point about the state pension itself and the difficulty for woman who have take time out to look after child . we take that seriously when we be last in government , and we still do now , because we want to ensure that there be proper equality for those woman . the report and this decision be not about the acceleration in the increase to the state pension age , which be at the heart of why so many woman feel angry about what happen . we will ensure that we give proper notice so that people can plan for their retirement , we will support woman through the pension triple lock and all the investment that we be put into the NHS , and we will ensure that equality for woman be at the heart of our proposal for pension . waspi woman in my constituency will have listen to the statement with some difficulty , as I know my right hon . friend have accept , but they will also have hear she offer a heartfelt from the Dispatch Box , which be quite right . will she assure they that the maladministration that underline this case will never happen again , and that this injustice will not be repeat by this or any other Government ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . it be most important , first , that in future people have proper notice of any change to the state pension age so that they can properly plan for their retirement , which be not what happen in 2011 under the previous government ; secondly , that we ensure that people get effective , timely and personalised information about their state pension and , I would argue , about their second pension ; and thirdly , that we reach people in many different way , not just by send letter , precisely because we know that the great majority of people who get unsolicited letter do not remember get they or read some or any of they . that be why we must ensure that our communication strategy be much more personalised , timely and effective . at a time when public confidence in politician be so low , have the Secretary of State make an assessment of whether overrule the ombudsman ' s decision at a stroke will undermine trust in that process ? I hope that I have be direct , straightforward and honest about why we agree with the finding of maladministration but not with the approach in other area . People will make their judgment , but I would just say that I believe in face up to responsibility , look at the fact , go through the detail and put forward a response that be fair and proportionate , and that be what I believe the Government have do today . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for the apology of behalf of the Government . as she have acknowledge , many of the brave and courageous WASPI woman in my constituency will feel bitterly disappointed by this decision . do she agree that the cornerstone of pensioner finance be this Government ' s commitment to the triple lock ? that stand in stark contrast to the Conservative Government ' s break of the triple lock in 2022 , which cost many pensioner in my constituency hundred of pound a year . my hon . friend state the fact that the Conservatives break the triple lock two year ago . indeed , their shadow Chancellor say that it be unsustainable . I be sure that his constituent will hear those comment loud and clear . today ' s announcement be a huge blow to 1950 - bear woman affect by state pension change , who have campaign tirelessly for justice and accountability , include on the maladministration that the Secretary of State have admit take place . she promise job , home and opportunity in her statement , but give that one affected woman die every 13 minute , can she explain exactly how that will benefit 1950 - bear retired woman ? I know that a number of woman expect to be able to retire early than they could , but the decision to increase the state pension age have be take . it be take by Parliament , agree by subsequent Parliaments , and deem legal by the court in 2020 — that issue be settle . this be about the communication of it . as I say , we have accept the finding of maladministration , but we do not accept the approach to injustice or compensation for all the reason that I have set out . the Government be take difficult decision so that we can invest in the pension triple lock and the NHS , build home , and get people the job that they need — many 1950 - bear woman be very concerned about those thing , not just for themselves but for their family . on this specific issue , I know that many people will be disappoint and angry , but we believe that it be the right and fair decision for all the reason that I have set out . waspi woman across the UK have be let down time and again , include by this statement . in the Budget , the Chancellor announce £ 20 billion of additional borrowing this year , and an average of £ 32 billion over the next five year . how do the Secretary of State expect WASPI woman to believe that the Government can not afford a single penny of compensation ? give that send out letter early , which we should have do , would not have make the difference that the ombudsman claim it would , and give that 90 % of 1950 - bear woman know that the state pension age be increase , we do not believe that a compensation scheme cost up to £ 10 . 5 billion be a fair or proportionate use of taxpayer ' money . when it be politically convenient to do so , the Secretary of State choose to back and support WASPI woman . today , she choose to betray they . the public vote for change , but instead they have be give more of the same — shame on you . if she be so confident in her position , why do she not let we all decide through a vote in this House ? I be sure that there could be a vote in the Scottish Parliament if the SNP Government decide to do that . I be shock and stagger that the Secretary of State have make this decision in the week before Christmas — " bah humbug , " spring to mind . she have talk several time about make sure people get due notice in the future . do the Secretary of State have plan to increase the pension age far ? no . what I be say be that we have to be able to give people sufficient notice in future . that be at the heart of the problem with the former Conservative - liberal Democrat coalition ' s decision to accelerate the increase in the state pension age , which cause so much anger among many people . we campaign against that , include in the 2019 election in which we propose compensation , but we lose that election , and the court have since rule that that decision be legal . that be why the ombudsman ' s report be not about that decision , but about how change be communicate . we will learn all the lesson from that maladministration to make sure it do not happen in future . I stand here today on behalf of my many constituent who will feel utterly betray by this decision . just month ago , people be promise a fresh start — a new change . do the Secretary of State agree that not only will my constituent feel short - changed , but this decision will far compound a lack of trust in politic ? we be deliver change , with £ 22 billion of extra investment in the NHS and a substantial rise in the minimum wage that will deliver a pay rise for 3 million of the lowest - pay worker , as well as the big ever increase in the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance to help family carer and a new flat repayment rate for universal credit to give an average of £ 420 per year to the poor 1 . 2 million household . however , we also promise that we would be responsible with taxpayer ' money and take fair and appropriate decision . I hear what the hon . Lady say about her constituent , but the ombudsman ' s report be not about the increase in the state pension age for 1950 - bear woman . we will learn the lesson from the maladministration , but we do not agree with the ombudsman ' s report to injustice or to remedy , which be why we have take this decision . on the Secretary of State ' s website be a picture of she hold a sign that read , " I will work with WASPI to identify and deliver a fair solution for all woman affect " . do she think that today ' s announcement be a fair solution ? may I say gently that I know what be on my website ? we do campaign with WASPI woman , include in 2017 and 2019 , but we lose those election . this decision be not about the increase in the state pension age , which be what that campaign be about — that decision have be take — but about how that increase be communicate . I know that it will cause disappointment and anger among many 1950 - bear woman , but we do not believe that the ombudsman ' s approach to injustice or remedy be right , which be why we have take this decision . in July , this country overwhelmingly vote for a change , but it be get more of the same — more failure and more austerity . nothing have change apart from the excuse . it be no wonder that the Prime Minister ' s approval rating have plummet to minus 66 % . give that Labour have recently remove even more money from our pensioner ' pocket by take away the winter fuel payment , will the Secretary of State please reconsider this betrayal and compensate the WASPI woman , such as my constituent Ruth Smith and Rev . Elizabeth Maitland ? I be sure the hon . Gentleman support an increase in the minimum wage that will deliver a £ 1 , 400 - a - year pay increase for someone who be work full time on the minimum wage in Leicester . I be sure he agree with the £ 22 billion additional investment in the NHS this year and next , and with a boost of £ 420 per year on average for people on universal credit in Leicester through the fair repayment rate . those be the change we be deliver , but on this issue , we do not believe the ombudsman ' s approach on injustice or remedy be right . when 90 % of 1950 - bear woman know that the state pension age be increase , we do not believe that give flat - rate compensation be a fair or appropriate use of taxpayer ' money . the constituent I represent include thousand of WASPI woman who will be disappoint by today ' s statement . a number of reference have be make to the campaigning that the Secretary of State have do with WASPI woman . do she feel regret that she have lead they up the garden path towards believe that they might get some compensation , and while she have apologise for the Government ' s part in the maladministration , will she apologise directly to the WASPI woman in her constituency ? we be campaign against the increase in the state pension age , and we have all sort of proposal in our 2019 manifesto . we lose that election , and the court have since decide that the increase in the state pension age be legal , so this decision be not about that . all I would say to WASPI woman in my constituency — I have no doubt that they will contact I — be that I believe this be the fair and right decision . we be commit to support the life of 1950 - bear woman , but we do not believe that the ombudsman ' s approach on injustice or remedy be the right way forward , which be why we have take this decision . many , many WASPI woman will be appal by the Secretary of State ' s statement . when they look at today ' s proceeding , would they be right in conclude that this Government be prepare to resolve the pension of mineworker , but not those of WASPI woman ? we be prepared to take difficult decision if we think that they be fair and right . that be why we have take this approach to the issue of how the state pension age increase be communicate between 2004 and 2007 . we agree with what the ombudsman say about maladministration , and I have set out our three action point : to make sure we have a clear and detailed action plan to learn all the lesson , to give people sufficient notice in future if their state pension age increase , and to have a detailed programme of communication about the state pension go forward . those be firm action to show that we have learn the lesson from this report . I be sure that the 69 - year - old who contact I explain how she have miss out on be able to care for her die mother due to need to work long would have welcome a letter give she enough notice to plan her finance to allow otherwise . what support can the Secretary of State offer WASPI woman , who be still disproportionately take on caring responsibility ? the hon . Lady raise a really important point . as we get old , many of we be work while care for our elderly love one or for child — sometimes both — and those family carer need support . I have already set out the action we have take , include the big ever boost to the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance and a serious , independent review of carer ' overpayment , but we can and should be do more to support family carer . I be very happy to meet the hon . Lady to talk through her idea that she think would benefit her constituent , if she would like . I do not think I have ever see quite so many glum face on the Labour Benches , not for the two - child benefit cap or the winter fuel payment — this be beyond the pale . a handful of Labour Members have stand up and speak their mind on this issue , and I commend they on that , but the Secretary of State have not answer the question of whether this House will be give a debate and a vote , which should happen in Government time . it be not just scottish mp who be ask for this ; other mp from other party have do so . I urge the Secretary of State to reconsider . back Benchers can put forward proposal for debate , as can opposition party . if the main Opposition party want to do so , it would be perfectly at liberty to do so . I and my colleague on the liberal Democrat Benches think that today ' s statement might be an early Christmas present for the WASPI woman in my constituency and across the country . all those woman will now be understandably devastate , and will be ask the same question : if the ombudsman have rule that they be to have financial redress because of the maladministration and the Government be willing to ignore that finding , what else be this Government willing to ignore ? we do not ignore the ombudsman ; we just do not agree with the approach he take to injustice or to remedy . we provide research that show that only one in four people who receive an unsolicited letter remember get it or read it , so even if we have send those letter out early — which , as we have say , we should have do — we do not believe it would have make the difference that the ombudsman claim . when 90 % of woman age between 45 and 54 know that the state pension age be increase , we can not justify a flat - rate compensation scheme of up to £ 10 . 5 billion . we do not believe that that be a fair or proportionate use of taxpayer ' money . the ombudsman play a really important role , and will continue to do so . I know that , as I have send countless constituent to the ombudsman to try to get redress in the 14 year that I have be an MP . we continue to back their work and effort . the Secretary of State have repeat time and again what this statement be not about , but what it be about be this Government not listen to the WASPI woman and this Government not listen to the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman . in the Secretary of State ' s statement , she say she will " develop a detailed action plan out of the report " . consider that the report miss two third of this , especially the financial redress scheme , what action plan be she develop ? this be about how we make sure in such a situation that , once a Department have decide it need to provide information and to send out letter , we actually do that , and do not have a 28 - month delay . it be about ask what , in the 21st century , be the modern way to get personalised information and tailor advice to individual about their state pension , their state pension age and , I would argue , all of their pension . it be precisely about those issue , which matter so much , and deal with the issue about the maladministration . if the hon . Member have any idea about what more he think we should do on that issue , I be sure either I or my hon . friend the Pensions Minister would be more than happy to meet he to hear his idea . maladministration be a serious charge . I know the Secretary of State have take a 360 ° pummel on this , but she have decline to say that she would have compensate woman if the economy be strong , and she say it would not have make any difference if the letter have be send . surely , however , the overall charge of maladministration apply to the broad fact that woman bear in the 1950 do not know about these change . do she therefore agree with I that the failure be about not the channel , but the message ? no , I do not , because the ombudsman use the research that be provide to he — he look at those aged 16 - plus and find that 43 % of they know what their state pension age be — but he do not adequately reflect the research on the specific group of woman affect . I think that be an important consideration , as part of our overall decision , which be not base on money alone . in Government , we have to look at what be a fair and proportionate use of taxpayer ' money , which be one of the element along with the other — the impact of letter , the fact that the great majority of woman know — that have inform our conclusion , which I have set out . be not the appalling message from the Government today that maladministration pay ? if , as here , we have nationwide maladministration and no consequence , what other conclusion could one reach ? what be the point of an ombudsman if the Government can be the judge in their own cause and dispense with the finding ? surely , the whole purpose of find maladministration be to ensure that the maladministrator pay . I think it be the precise opposite . we accept what the ombudsman find about the maladministration , and we apologise and we will learn the lesson to put it right . however , if Parliament itself decide it want to put the parliamentary ombudsman on a different footing , it can do so . I say to the Secretary of State that this be neither fair nor right ; this be a betrayal . today , my thought be with the brave , dog campaigner of WASPI Argyll and the Isles , particularly Ann Greer , who have work so hard for so many year seek justice . the Secretary of State say in her statement that the Government be choose to do what they be do because it would be a " significant cost " and an " administrative burden " to do the right thing . do she not see that that be an incredibly lame excuse for deny natural justice to woman who be ask for nothing more than to receive what be owe to they and to which they be entitle ? I would say that the ombudsman ' s report itself say there would be a huge cost and administrative burden of go through 3 . 5 million woman individually , but I be sure the hon . Member can read the ombudsman ' s report and see that quote for himself . this be not about increase in the state pension age , which be what many of the woman in the campaign have be very concerned about . it be about the communication , and for all the reason I have set out , we have decide on this approach . it be with great sadness that I rise to ask a question , and I be very disappointed by the statement . as the right hon . Lady will know , I stand shoulder to shoulder with many Labour Members , include the Secretary of State , in call on the Government to do the right thing by the WASPI woman . however , here we stand , six month into the new Government , and these woman be poor than ever , give the removal of the fuel allowance . pensioner be borrow more and pay off less , and the statement imply that the Government will do nothing . will the Secretary of State clarify exactly what have change for Labour Members ? six month ago , they stand up for the pensioner . I say that with great respect ; the right hon . Lady will know that I speak with respect in this House . after take advice not relevant to the report ' s finding , why will the government suppress the right of these woman once again ? more importantly , when can the 5 , 000 WASPI woman in my constituency of Strangford expect their relief — not an apology , which will not heat their room by 1 ° ? how sad it be that today , in this House , the ombudsman ' s recommendation be be ignore , and right and justice have be deny . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the tone of his question . as he know , I have huge respect for he . while many 1950 - bear woman will be deeply disappoint by this specific decision , our commitment to the pension triple lock , our investment in the NHS , our support for family carer through the carer ' s allowance , and all the other thing that we be do to help people deal with the cost of live crisis — include get family member into job , and then well job , and into well home — mean that , on the whole , we be deliver change . the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , who have responsibility for pension , or I would be more than happy to meet the hon . Gentleman — that go for many other member — to go through this in more detail . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . claimant of pension credit , which give entitlement to the winter fuel allowance , have to apply by this weekend to qualify for this year ' s winter fuel allowance . have the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions indicate that she will come to the House today or tomorrow to make a statement about the urgent need for those on pension credit to apply — ten of thousand have not yet do so — if they be to avail themselves of what they appear to be deny ? I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order , which reiterate a point that come up yesterday in Work and Pensions oral question — and , indeed , in the Chamber this afternoon . I be sure that all member will play their part in ensure that constituent be aware of the benefit , include pension tax credit , to which they be entitle . as far as the point of order go , I confirm that there have be no request today from Department for Work and Pensions Ministers to make a statement on this issue . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sorry for not give you advance notice of this . the ombudsman of this House have be completely ignore , as be demonstrate by the statement . how can this House hold the Government to account and make sure that we hear the voice of every single member on whether they be happy to see the ombudsman overrule in this callous manner ? I thank the right hon . member for that point of order . he have put his point on the record , and he will be aware that the Secretary of State specifically respond to that point throughout the statement . Bill present Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Bridget Phillipson , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , Pat McFadden , Secretary Wes Streeting , Secretary Jonathan Reynolds , Secretary Liz Kendall , Catherine McKinnell , Jess Phillips and Sir Nicholas Dakin , present a Bill to make provision about the safeguarding and welfare of child ; about support for child in care or leave care ; about regulation of care worker ; about regulation of establishment and agency under Part 2 of the Care Standards Act 2000 ; about employment of child ; about breakfast club provision and school uniform ; about attendance of child at school ; about regulation of independent educational institution ; about inspection of school and college ; about teacher misconduct ; about Academies and teacher at Academies ; repeal section 128 of the Education Act 2002 ; about school place and admission ; about establish new school ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow and to be print ( Bill 151 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 151 - EN ) . off - road Bikes ( Police Powers ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to give police power to enter a private dwelling for the purpose of seize an off - road bike that have be drive in an anti - social way or without insurance ; and for connected purpose . member across the House will be starkly aware of the menace of off - road bike be drive in a dangerous and antisocial way , whether through park , on pavement or in other public space , cause not just a nuisance , but in some case damage and injury . I be introduce the Bill follow conversation with local police in my constituency of North Durham . they have tell I that there be a loophole in legislation around their power to seize these off - road vehicle . off - road bike include a range of vehicle , such as quad bike and motorbike . electric motorbike in particular have become increasingly popular throughout County Durham , especially in rural area . I be sure , from talk to colleague , that that be replicate in other part of the country . last week , it be report that crime involve e - bike and e - scooter have soar by more than 730 % in the past five year . Durham constabulary use officer on similar bike to respond to report , and use drone to identify suspect . I pay tribute to they for take those step to track down the perpetrator of these crime . frustratingly , while the location of bike be drive illegally may be know to the police , the bike can not always be seize . that be why I be introduce this Bill . the Road Traffic Act 1988 allow the police to seize vehicle be drive without insurance . in many case , vehicle be drive antisocially be not insure . more prevalent form of road - relate antisocial behaviour can be deal with under the Police Reform Act 2002 , which create the offence of vehicle be use in a manner that cause alarm , distress or annoyance . the Act also give police the power to seize vehicle use in that way . under both act , the police can seize vehicle from any premise that they have reasonable ground for believe the vehicle to be on , but not from private dwelling , except for garage , other structure or land belong to a dwelling . the Bill I be introduce would amend the Road Traffic Act to remove the prohibition on the police seize from a private dwelling a vehicle that have be drive without insurance . the Bill would also amend the 2002 Act to remove the prohibition on the police seize from a private dwelling a vehicle that have be drive dangerously or in a way that " be cause , or be likely to cause , alarm , distress or annoyance to member of the public " . I recognise that the right to enter premise , particularly a private dwelling , be an intrusive power , and it must be subject to rigorous legal safeguard and use proportionately , but while find the right balance will be challenge , I do not believe that the problem be insurmountable . my predecessor and I have have many constituent raise this issue , and member from all part of the House have also have the issue repeatedly raise by constituent . it be repeatedly raise with I on doorstep across North Durham , and I know it will be familiar to colleague across the House . tackle antisocial behaviour be a key pledge in this Government ' s manifesto at the general election , and I know that the Government take it seriously . I welcome the fact that they intend to legislate , through the upcoming crime and police Bill , to give police the power that they need to quickly destroy off - road bike that be seize , but I hope that consideration will be give to make it easy for the police to seize those vehicle in the first place , which be what this private Member ' s Bill seek to do . the illegal , dangerous and antisocial use of off - road bike have be intimidate local people for far too long , and we must give the police the power that they need to properly tackle it . question put and agree to . order , that Luke Akehurst , Shaun Davies , Graeme Downie , Michelle Welsh , Yuan Yang , Adam Jogee , Dave Robertson , Jo Platt , Jodie Gosling , Will Stone , Dr Allison Gardner and Antonia Bance present the Bill . Luke Akehurst accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 151 ) . National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill consider in Committee [ Caroline Nokes in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee they should not address the Chair as Madam Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . " Madam Chair " , " Chair " and " Madam Chairman " be also acceptable . clause 1 - rate of secondary Class 1 contribution I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 2 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) in section 9 ( 1A ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) if the employer be a specified employer under subsection ( 1B ) , the specify employer secondary percentage ; " ( A2 ) after section 9 ( 1A ) of that Act insert — " ( 1b ) a " specify employer " mean — ( a ) a person provide a care home service or a domiciliary support service who be regulate under — ( i ) Part 1 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 , ( ii ) Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care ( Wales ) Act 2016 , or ( iii ) Part 5 of the Public Services Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 , ( b ) a person contract to provide primary care under the provision of — ( i ) part 4 of the National Health Service Act 2006 , ( ii ) part 4 of the National Health Service ( Wales ) Act 2006 , or ( iii ) section 17j to 17o of the National Health Service ( Scotland ) Act 1978 , ( c ) a person contract to provide general dental service under the provision of Part 2 of the National Health Service ( General Dental Services ) Regulations 1992 , ( d ) a person contract to provide pharmacy service under the provision of — ( i ) part 7 of the National Health Service Act 2006 , or ( ii ) Part 8 of the NHS ( Pharmaceutical and Local Pharmaceutical Services ) Regulations 2013 , or ( e ) a charitable provider of health and care , or ( f ) a person provide hospice care whether in a hospice or elsewhere . ( 1C ) for the purpose of this Act , the specify employer secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . " " this amendment , together with Amendment 2 provide that care provider , NHS GP practice , NHS commission dentist , NHS commission pharmacist , charitable provider of health and care , and those provide hospice care would continue to pay contribution at current rate . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 4 , page 1 , line 2 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( A2 ) in section 9 ( 1A ) after paragraph ( aa ) insert — " ( ab ) if section 9aa below apply to the earning , the reduce secondary percentage ; " ( a3 ) after section 9A insert — " 9aa Qualification for reduced secondary percentage ( 1 ) where a secondary Class 1 contribution be payable as mention in section 6 ( 1 ) ( b ) above , this section apply to the earning pay in the tax week , in respect of the employment in question , where the earner be employ — ( a ) by a charity register in the charity register or the scottish charity register , ( b ) by a voluntary organisation within the meaning of regulation 2 of the Housing Benefit Regulations 2006 , ( c ) to work in a GP practice , ( d ) by a university , or ( e ) by a college of further education . ( 2 ) for the purpose of section 9 ( 1A ) ( ab ) above , the reduce secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . " " Amendment 7 , page 1 , line 2 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( A2 ) in section 9 ( 1A ) before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) if subsection ( 1b ) below apply , the healthcare and small charity secondary percentage ; " ( a3 ) after section 9 ( 1A ) insert — " ( 1b ) this section apply where the earner be employ to work — ( a ) in any of the follow setting — ( i ) a gp surgery , ( ii ) an optometry or dispense optician practice , ( iii ) a dental surgery , ( iv ) a pharmacy , ( v ) a residential care setting , or ( b ) for a register charity employ 50 people or few . ( 1C ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1A ) ( za ) the healthcare and small charity secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . " " Amendment 13 , page 1 , line 2 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( A2 ) in section 9 ( 1A ) before paragraph ( a ) insert — ' ( za ) if sub section ( 1b ) below apply to the earning , the specify sector secondary percentage ; ' ( a3 ) after section 9 ( 1A ) insert — ' ( 1b ) where a secondary Class 1 contribution be payable as mention in section 6 ( 1 ) ( b ) above , this subsection apply to the earning pay in the tax week , in respect of the employment in question , where the earner be employ in any of the following specify sector — ( a ) adult social care , ( b ) hospice , ( c ) primary care , ( d ) nursery register in the early Years Register maintain by the Office of Standards in Education , Children ' s Services and Skills , or ( e ) a charity register in the charity register or the scottish charity register . ( 1C ) for the purpose of this Act above , the specify sector secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . ' " this amendment would provide that adult social care , hospice , primary care , nursery and charity would continue to pay contribution at current rate . amendment 19 , page 1 , line 2 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) in section 9 ( 1A ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) if the employer be a specified employer under subsection ( 1B ) , the specify employer secondary percentage ; " ( A2 ) after section 9 ( 1A ) of that Act insert — " ( 1b ) a " specify employer " mean — ( a ) a provider of education or childcare to child under five year of age — ( i ) register in England in the early year register maintain by the Office for Standards in Education , Children ' s Services and Skills , ( ii ) register in Wales with Care Inspectorate Wales , or ( iii ) register in Scotland with the Scottish Care Inspectorate ; or ( b ) a university . ( 1C ) for the purpose of this Act , the specify employer secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . " " this amendment provide that early year Settings and Universities would continue to pay contribution at current rate . amendment 20 , page 1 , line 2 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) in section 9 ( 1A ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , after paragraph ( aa ) insert — " ( ab ) if the employer be a specified employer under subsection ( 1B ) , the specify employer secondary percentage ; " ( A2 ) after section 9 ( 1A ) of that Act insert — " ( 1b ) a " specify employer " mean — ( a ) a register charity , or ( b ) a housing association . ( 1C ) for the purpose of this Act , the specify employer secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . " " this amendment provide that charity and housing association would continue to pay contribution at current rate . amendment 23 , page 1 , line 2 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( A2 ) in section 9 ( 1A ) after paragraph ( aa ) insert — " ( ab ) if section 9aa below apply to the earning , the veteran secondary percentage ; " ( a3 ) after section 9A insert — " 9aa Veterans secondary percentage ( 1 ) where a secondary Class 1 contribution be payable as mention in section 6 ( 1 ) ( b ) above , this section apply to the earning pay in the tax week , in respect of the employment in question , where the earner be a veteran . ( 2 ) for the purpose of section 9 ( 1A ) ( a ) above , the veteran secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , a " veteran " mean a former member of any of his Majesty ' s force . " " this amendment would exempt veteran ' salary from nic change . amendment 10 , page 1 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 1b ) in section 9 ( 1A ) after paragraph ( aa ) insert — " ( ab ) where the employer be a specified employer under subsection ( 1B ) , the specify employer secondary percentage ; " ( 1C ) after section 9 ( 1A ) insert — " ( 1b ) a " specify employer " mean — ( a ) a person provide a care home service or domiciliary support service regulate under the Health and Personal Social Services ( Quality , Improvement and Regulation ) ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2003 , or ( b ) a person provide primary medical service through contractual arrangement with a Health and Social Services Board , ( c ) a person provide general dental service under Part 2 of the General Dental Services ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 1993 , ( d ) a person provide pharmaceutical service under Part 2 of the Pharmaceutical Services Regulations ( Northern Ireland ) 1997 , ( e ) a provider of health and care register as a charity by the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland , ( f ) a person provide hospice care whether in a hospice or elsewhere , ( g ) a voluntary or community organisation , and ( h ) a provider of childcare register in the Family Support NI Register . ( 1C ) for the purpose of this Act , the specify employer secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . " ( 1D ) after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation define a voluntary or community organisation for the purpose of subsection ( 1b ) ( g ) . " " this amendment aim to provide that in Northern Ireland care home , domiciliary care provider , GP and dental surgery , pharmacist , health and care charity , hospice care provider , voluntary or community organisation and childcare provider would remain subject to the current secondary Class 1 contribution rate , not the increase rate propose in the Bill . amendment 16 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 1b ) in section 9 ( 1A ) before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) if sub section ( 1b ) below apply to the earning , the specify sector secondary percentage ; " ( 1C ) after section 9 ( 1A ) insert — " ( 1b ) where a secondary Class 1 contribution be payable as mention in section 6 ( 1 ) ( b ) above , this subsection apply to the earning pay in the tax week , in respect of the employment in question , where the earner be employ in any of the following specify sector — ( a ) adult social care , ( b ) hospice , ( c ) primary care , ( d ) nursery register with Family Support NI , or ( e ) a register charity in Northern Ireland . ( 1C ) for the purpose of this Act above , the specify sector secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . " " this amendment would provide that adult social care , hospice , primary care , nursery and charity in Northern Ireland would continue to pay contribution at current rate . clause stand part . amendment 2 , in clause 2 , page 1 , line 12 , leave out " £ 96 " and insert — " ( i ) for a specified employer under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 175 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 96 . " this amendment , and Amendment 3 , exempt care provider , NHS GP practice , NHS commission dentist , NHS commission pharmacist , charitable provider of health and care , and those provide hospice care from the change to the threshold . amendment 5 , page 1 , line 12 , leave out " £ 96 " and insert — " ( i ) in respect of an earner list in section 9aa ( 1 ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 175 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 96 . " Amendment 8 , page 1 , line 12 , leave out " £ 96 " and insert — " ( i ) in respect of an earner to whom the healthcare and small charity secondary percentage under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 apply , £ 175 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 96 . " amendment 11 , page 1 , line 12 , leave out " £ 96 " and insert — " ( i ) for a specified employer under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 , £ 175 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 96 . " this amendment provide that the employer list in Amendment 10 would be subject to the exist secondary threshold for secondary Class 1 contribution , not the low threshold propose in the Bill . Amendment 14 , page 1 , line 12 , leave out " £ 96 " and insert — " ( i ) in respect of an earner in a specified sector under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 175 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 96 . " this amendment would exempt adult social care , hospice , primary care provider , nursery and charity from change to the threshold . amendment 17 , page 1 , line 12 , leave out " £ 96 " and insert — " ( i ) in respect of an earner in a specified sector under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 , £ 175 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 96 . " this amendment would exempt adult social care , hospice , primary care provider , nursery and charity in Northern Ireland from change to the threshold . amendment 24 , page 1 , line 12 , leave out " £ 96 " and insert — " ( i ) where the earner be a veteran within the meaning of section 9aa ( 3 ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 175 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 96 . " see Amendment 23 . amendment 3 , page 1 , line 14 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) , for " £ 758 " substitute — " ( i ) for a specified employer under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 758 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 417 " , and ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( b ) , for " £ 9 , 100 " substitute — " ( i ) for a specified employer under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 or section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 , £ 9 , 100 , and ( ii ) in all other case £ 5 , 000 . " " this amendment be link to Amendments 1 and 2 . amendment 6 , page 1 , line 14 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) , for " £ 758 " substitute — " ( i ) in respect of an earner list in section 9aa ( 1 ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 758 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 417 " , and ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( b ) , for " £ 9 , 100 " substitute — " ( i ) in respect of an earner list in section 9aa ( 1 ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 9 , 100 , and ( ii ) in all other case £ 5 , 000 . " " Amendment 9 , page 1 , line 14 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) , for " £ 758 " substitute — " ( i ) in respect of an earner to whom the healthcare and small charity secondary percentage under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 apply , £ 758 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 417 " , and ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( b ) , for " £ 9 , 100 " substitute — " ( i ) in respect of an earner to whom the healthcare and small charity secondary percentage under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 apply , £ 9 , 100 , and ( ii ) in all other case £ 5 , 000 . " " Amendment 12 , page 1 , line 14 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) , for " £ 758 " substitute — " ( i ) for a specified employer under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 , £ 758 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 417 " , and ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( b ) , for " £ 9 , 100 " substitute — " ( i ) for a specified employer under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 , £ 9 , 100 , and ( ii ) in all other case £ 5 , 000 . " " this amendment make provision for the monthly and annual threshold in line with Amendment 11 . amendment 15 , page 1 , line 14 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) , for " £ 758 " substitute — " ( i ) in respect of an earner in a specified sector under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 758 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 417 " , and ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( b ) , for " £ 9 , 100 " substitute — " ( i ) in respect of an earner under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 9 , 100 , and ( ii ) in all other case £ 5 , 000 . " " this amendment would exempt adult social care , hospice , primary care provider , nursery and charity from change to the threshold . amendment 18 , page 1 , line 14 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) , for " £ 758 " substitute — " ( i ) in respect of an earner in a specified sector under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 , £ 758 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 417 " , and ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( b ) , for " £ 9 , 100 " substitute — " ( i ) in respect of an earner under section 9 ( 1b ) of the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 , £ 9 , 100 , and ( ii ) in all other case £ 5 , 000 . " " this amendment would exempt adult social care , hospice , primary care provider , nursery and charity in Northern Ireland from change to the threshold . Amendment 25 , page 1 , line 14 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) , for " £ 758 " substitute — " ( i ) where the earner be a veteran within the meaning of section 9aa ( 3 ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 758 , and ( ii ) in all other case , £ 417 " , and " ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( b ) , for " £ 9 , 100 " substitute — " ( i ) where the earner be a veteran within the meaning of section 9aa ( 3 ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , £ 9 , 100 , and ( ii ) in all other case £ 5 , 000 . " " see Amendment 23 . clause 2 stand part . clause 3 and 4 stand part . new clause 1 — Review of the impact of the Act — " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within a year of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the change introduce by this Act on — ( a ) rate of employment , ( b ) real wage , ( c ) inflation , and ( d ) real household disposable income . " new clause 2 — Review of effect on sme , hospitality , tourism and seasonal worker — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a review of the impact of the measure contain in this Act . ( 2 ) the review must consider in particular — ( a ) the impact of those measure on the finance and staffing of small and medium sized business ; ( b ) the impact of those measure on the finance and staffing of small and medium sized business in the hospitality and tourism sector ; ( c ) the impact of those measure on sector who rely on seasonal worker . ( 3 ) in this section , " small and medium sized business " mean any business which have an average headcount of staff of less than 250 in the tax year 2023 - 24 . " this new clause would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the effect of the Act on sme , Hospitality , Tourism and seasonal worker and on the sector rely on seasonal worker . new clause 3 — Review of effect of employer NIC threshold — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a review of the impact of the measure contain in this Act on part - time worker . ( 2 ) the review must consider in particular the effect of the threshold set by section 2 of this Act on part - time worker — ( a ) earn £ 5 , 000 - £ 9 , 000 , or ( b ) work under 16 hour per week . " this new clause would require the Government to produce a report into the impact of the employer NIC threshold on part - time staff , especially those who be lower pay or work less than 16 hour a week . new clause 4 — Employment allowance : review of exception on childcare service provider — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must conduct a review of how the exception from the employment allowance under section 2 of the National Insurance Contributions Act 2014 ( " the 2014 Act " ) affect provider of childcare service . ( 2 ) the review must consider the likely impact on provider of childcare service be section 2 of the 2014 Act to be amend to enable such provider to qualify for the allowance . ( 3 ) a report set out the finding of the review must be publish and lay before both Houses of Parliament within six month of this Act be pass . " these hike in employer national insurance contribution be not just number on a spreadsheet , but will have real and damaging consequence and will strike at the heart of small and medium - sized business , which be the backbone of our economy . in my constituency in South Cambridgeshire , we have one of the high density of small and medium - sized enterprise , principally in the biotech and life science sector , which be a growth area for our economy . it be critical that we get this right , and I have hear from the sector that it be trouble by this legislation . more worryingly , the consequence will extend to our social and healthcare sector , which be already under immense strain . gp surgery and care home across the UK be at risk of be severely impact . those be essential frontline service , which be essential to support the NHS and to fulfil this Government ' s mission of move from treatment to prevention , and from hospital to community . how can we expect to tackle the backlog in routine operation , and how can we deal with the winter waiting list at accident and emergency , and with so much pain and anguish , if the primary care provider that form the foundation of our healthcare system be be undermine by this tax increase ? I thank the hon . member for allow I to speak briefly . she reference primary care . I have hear from five different GP surgery in my constituency , who have write to I to warn that the national insurance increase will directly undermine patient care , when GP practice be already under severe financial strain due to year of neglect . do she agree that the Government ' s process of address national insurance cost via GP contract negotiation be just too slow ? it could go on until spring , but practice be make staffing decision right now . I agree . what the hon . Member say be critical , and I will come on to the situation with our GPs . the Lib Dems continue to highlight the point that to fix the NHS , we have to fix the social care crisis . free up hospital bed require we to fix the social care sector . accord to research , 60 % of the UK ' s care home bed be provide by private company , which be on the brink of bankruptcy and be be tip over the edge thank to these change and rise in employer ' national insurance contribution . we do not understand how that can align with the plan of the Chancellor and the Health Secretary to alleviate pressure on hospital and ensure effective healthcare delivery . the hon . Member have hit the nail on the head . the Labour Government say that they want to deal with this situation , and that they effectively protect secondary care , but the NI apply to gps at the front end and care home at the back end . that mean that it will be the hospital who hold the responsibility — the acute place that we need to keep clear if we be to help the backlog move through . without get an answer now , we risk recruitment decision be keep on hold over the next three or four month and cutback be make . do the hon . Member agree that , on top of the difficulty of an already hard winter , that will cripple the NHS ? I agree with the hon . member . I will give one example : the Arthur Rank hospice , which serve all of Cambridgeshire . I have a tour there and see the work be do by its dedicated professional . I be inform by its senior leadership that these hike in national insurance contribution for employer will be the equivalent of £ 230 , 000 in additional payroll cost on top of the fundraising that it already have to do . that be money that it do not have . we know from the debate on assist dying , assist suicide and the terminally ill how critical palliative care and end - of - life care be . that be one hospice that will struggle severely to deal with these charge . hon . member have speak about the GP crisis . accord to the British Medical Association , 1 , 387 GP practice have close since 2015 and the NHS have lose the equivalent of 1 , 333 full - time , fully qualified gps . each GP be responsible for an average of 2 , 294 patient , and about 3 million people have be directly affect in the last decade by shrink GP number . at a time when we desperately need more gps , we be introduce a tax that risk drive even more practice out of business . it be not just I say that ; I be sure that hon . member across the House will have hear from GPs in their constituency . in my constituency of South Cambridgeshire , I have hear from the Harston , Comberton , Queen Edith , Eversden and Melbourn practice . I have speak in particular to Dr Gee of Harston surgery , who have tell I that his practice with 7 , 600 patient face a £ 20 , 000 bill from April just to maintain its current service — just to stand still . the hon . Lady be make a tremendously inform speech and demonstrate a level of understanding of primary care and the care sector that we could only dream of from the Government . be it her concern that many charity , voluntary sector organisation and GP surgery be already operate on the thin margin of financial sustainability and that this measure will torpedo the very organisation that protect our community from absolute chaos ? secondary care can not do it alone ; it be uphold by primary care and the care sector . be she as concerned as many other hon . member that this will cause absolute chaos ? I agree with the hon . member . I know that the Government be in conversation with GPs , but GPs be write to we say that they be seriously concerned . the GP in Harston say : " GPs can not raise price or operate at a loss . " they have not have clarification or confirmation from the Government about how funding that be to be give to other in the public sector will be available to they . just at the critical time when GPs be come to their annual spending review and budgeting , the Government be bring they this uncertainty . GPs do not feel that they be get the right messaging or any kind of clarity that will save people ' s job . I thank the hon . member for give way ; she have be generous with her time . do she realise that this be not just a problem in England , Scotland and Wales ? it be a significant problem in Northern Ireland , where we have already see a high number of GP practice return their contract . at this time when the solution be mean to be to move to multidisciplinary team , the increase in national insurance contribution for GPs as employer be put additional stress on their contract , give the amount of money they be receive from central Government . in Northern Ireland , 75 % of our domiciliary care and home care be provide by private supplier , and this additional cost will be add to they as well . I agree with the hon . member . in my constituency of South Cambridgeshire , we have the tragic situation of four much - love , much - respect family doctor hand back their contract . it happen at East barnwell surgery , to the distress of those GPs and all their patient . that be because of the contract , and due to failure by the previous Conservative Government to understand in the GP funding formula what deprivation as well as age demographic mean in that contract . on top of that , the hike in employer national insurance contribution have drive they over the edge . we have this great debate on assist dying where every single person who speak say it be essential that we improve palliative care . I wonder whether we could form a consensus in this Committee . one compromise that the Government could make be to take hospice out of this tax . that would be so popular , achieve so much and ensure that our elderly and frail people be properly look after . I give that one compromise to the Government . I thank the right hon . member . as I mention , Arthur Rank hospice in my constituency be one such hospice that should definitely have that compromise . not only that ; we have to look at the whole primary care sector — both GPs and independent care home — because that be what will winter - proof our NHS . we can not fix the NHS without fix social care . the national insurance increase be not just unwise ; they be unthinkable . we be in a time of healthcare crisis when people be already struggle to secure appointment . despite the Government ' s assurance , these tax rise will inevitably affect ordinary people . they will particularly hurt those desperately try to access their local gp and crucial appointment . we can not and will not fix the NHS by drive its primary care provider into the ground . I urge the Government to engage with our GPs , reconsider and provide immediate reassurance to GP practice , hospice and care home that they will be protect they from these change . without those frontline service , the NHS stand no chance of come off life support . I rise to speak about the need for the Bill and the continued assault by the conservative party on public trust and the public finance . when I go out in my constituency , I speak to people who be appreciative of the " bin fire " — that be the term that one of my constituent use — face Treasury colleague when we assume office . money for project and half - bake plan be use more to launder the conservative party ' s reputation than to improve our public service . when someone come into office and find out that the job be not as have be advertise and that the previous person in post set fire to the office , they have to do thing differently . they have to begin to rebuild trust with the people they serve and to have honest conversation with the public . that be what the Government be determined to do . [ interruption . ] opposition member can chunter as much as they like , but they know that they gamble with public trust and undermine every aspect of themselves and the institution of the british state . that be not just a failure on their part but a failure on the part of everyone in their party and everyone who knock on door . ultimately , they be judge harshly by the british public for that . the Bill be necessary to repair the public finance and rebuild public trust . we do not want to do this . we have to maintain our manifesto promise not to see tax rise for work people , but we must ensure that the country that we hand on be in a significantly well state than the country we inherit . that be the Government ' s task . I be enjoy the hon . member ' s exposition of his thinking on this matter . will he set out how this work for national insurance contribution , which be what we be talk about ? those on the frontline — the like of GPs and care home — be private , but they be commission only by the NHS . be he aware of where the funding will come from ? will it come from the £ 22 . 6 billion ? that would make sense , but if so , the Government need to clarify where that money be go . part of the problem be that it do not add up for the Government to say that they want to support the NHS yet tax those very people — the doctor , the hospice and the care home — to fund it . will he elaborate on how that will work ? I be not sure if the hon . Member would take intervention during that . ultimately , we need to support the NHS , our care home and our GPs . it be very rich of the conservative party to lecture we on support GPs and care home . I have be out speak to gps in rural community , who have be consistently undermine by the Conservatives ' failure to appreciate the challenge face the modern countryside . I have be out speak to care home ; I speak to the Charlotte Straker care home , which look after my grandmother , to hear its concern . I have have those meeting , as be my duty as a constituency MP . ultimately , perhaps if more of the hon . Gentleman ' s conservative colleague have do the diligent thing as constituency mp , there would be more of they on the Opposition Benches . the hon . member be very kind to give way . twice in the past couple of minute , he have use the word " ultimately " — " ultimately we will have to do this , and ultimately we will have to do that . " it be " actually " that he should be say . you actually have to make sure that there be funding , not ultimately — that can wait for another day . actually be what will happen as soon as this legislation come to pass — you will be in an absolute quagmire . Mr Doogan , I will not be in a quagmire . I thank the hon . gentleman for his guidance on the correct form of word to use . the reason that I use the term " ultimately " be that it be the fundamental goal of Government to improve the life of our constituent . that be why I choose to use the form of word that I be use , and why I be focused on the eventual outcome for my constituent . as I say , we do not want to inherit the country in the circumstance that we do . that be fault of the Conservative party , its record and the inheritance it leave . we need to bear in mind the context , because that shape everything and how we go about this . far to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , we hear the hon . Gentleman ' s critique of the previous Government , but we be try to understand how impose these cost on GPs at one end of the service and hospice at the other will remotely help the NHS and , more importantly , the people who rely on it . we would like he to explain that , not just slag we off , however much he might enjoy do so . I have never turn down an opportunity to slag off the opposition . I be always happy to do so . the ultimate reason that the Budget be necessary be to raise the extra money to invest into the NHS . the extra infrastructure investment will support our rural community , our rural gps and our care home . that be the fundamental point of the Budget . it be a reset moment to properly support our public sector once more , which the conservative party fail to do , as the right hon . Gentleman well know . we need to restore faith in our NHS and our small business that be so badly let down . I have speak to many across my constituency who share my optimism about this Government and who be convince of the need for that investment . [ interruption . ] opposition member can chunter all they like , but it be true . ultimately , those business know that we need to invest in the state in order to drive up standard and confidence and provide the stability that the country so desperately need . the hon . Gentleman mention public trust ; we all understand how important it be to restore that , but how can that happen if the very thing need to support the public and restore trust — our hospice and the charitable sector — be be hit by this Government ' s measure ? as the hon . Lady well know , when one inherit a difficult context , one have to take decision that one do not want to take . the public understand that the nic rise be important and be need because of the circumstance that we inherit and to repair the black hole that we find in the public finance . spend the national overdraft three time and not tell anyone about it be what have fundamentally undermine public trust . listen to member speak to the amendment have cause I to reflect on the challenge at the heart of this debate . do my hon . friend agree that the amendment that be try to unpick a holistic approach to fix the foundation of our public finance entirely miss the point , first of the challenge that this Government face in re - establish confidence in public finance , and secondly of our approach to long - term investment in public service that be so desperately need ? I believe that all the amendment — order . the hon . Lady have every opportunity to contribute to this debate if she so wish . intervention be get long and long ; they must be short . my hon . friend eloquently make the point that I have be try to make when I have trip over my word . I be extremely proud that the Government be commit to achieve economic stability , be frank with the public about the choice that we face and not simply take the easy option . we need to implement these tough measure in order to resolve the previous Government ' s disastrous economic mismanagement and to restore our foundation . I will finish by say that traditionally , as far as I be aware , it be poor form for the arsonist to criticise the action of the fire brigade . I rise to speak , on behalf of the official Opposition , to amendment 13 to 18 and new clause 1 , which stand in my name . first , it be important to remember the context of the situation we find ourselves in today . throughout the election , the Chancellor and the Prime Minister promise the british people that they would not raise taxis on work people . they commit specifically to not raise national insurance , but here we be in Committee debate a national insurance tax on work people worth some £ 25 billion . each and every Government Member make specific promise to their constituent on national insurance , which they have now break . we have it here in black and white . clause 1 raise the rate of secondary class national insurance from 13 . 8 % to 15 % . to compound the impact , clause 2 drastically cut the secondary threshold from £ 9 , 100 to £ 5 , 000 . this two - pronged attack on business mean that while clause 1 squeeze more from business , clause 2 simultaneously push more business into the taxman ' s grasp . take together , base on datum from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , a staggering 940 , 000 employer be set to lose out in net term from the Bill . the Office for Budget Responsibility have make it clear that each one will be hit by an average of £ 26 , 000 in additional tax . on second reading we hear the same old script from the Government and their Back Benchers . time and again we hear that the Bill will hurt only the large business , but that be not correct . Most high street hair salon would not say that they be a big business with mound of profit to give away to the Exchequer , no matter how much hair mousse this Prime Minister buy from they . a village family butcher surely would not regard themselves as profiteer fat cat . community pharmacy provide vital service to resident young and old surely can not be put in the same category as a large multinational pharmaceutical company . yet they be . the hon . Gentleman be make an eloquent argument against increase the employer ' s part of national insurance contribution . yet he himself vote for the health and social care levy , which be an increase of great proportion on both employee and employer . I have just check Hansard — he make none of the argument that he progress today when his government be put that through . why have his mind be change now that he be in opposition ? I find it difficult that the Labour party say that we be irresponsible with public finance , yet when we face a once - in - a - century pandemic and spend £ 400 billion or £ 500 billion to support resident , business and family in Stoke and across the country , we decide that we need to pay that money back and do not want debt to keep on rise . yes , we make difficult decision in the face of a global pandemic . there be no global pandemic today . this be a political choice , and that be the difference . the hon . Gentleman be very kind in give way again so quickly . the point have be make about the billion of pound that be spend during the pandemic . can he outline how much of that money go to Tory party mate and donor through dodgy contract ? the hon . Gentleman be not here at that time , but those of we who be in Parliament then face an incredibly challenging time in very difficult circumstance . billion of pound go to support business in his constituency ; if he have a conversation with the average business that benefit from the furlough scheme , I be sure he will correct the record . the problem be that socialist fundamentally do not understand or care what it mean to have an idea , to take a risk or to work hard day in , day out to make a business a reality . that be the problem . they think it be all so easy — that profit just flow in . they think it will all be all right , because Government can step in and take we much tax as they want . that be not the case . if Government member talk to the average business in their constituency , they will find this out ; if they set up a business , they will see it for themselves . perhaps most worrying of all , not only do the Government not understand the private sector , but they have completely overlook the different way in which the public sector provide for our community , as my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) set out . whether healthcare , childcare or the charity sector , organisation after organisation have warn Ministers that this tax rise will impact the service they provide . that may not have be intend , but the Government have yet to act . that be why we have table amendment 13 to 15 and 16 to 18 , which seek to protect certain key sector from both part of this tax in Great Britain and Northern Ireland respectively . my hon . friend have hit the nail on the head , and the Treasury really need to answer this question . do it knowingly implement these tax rise on these industry , which would be a travesty in itself , or do it do so by mistake because it do not understand these issue ? if that be the case , will the Government look to rectify the matter so that hospice , GPs and childcare provider be protect ? I could not have put it well myself . these amendment highlight the fact that Labour ' s attempt to paint this tax rise as a necessity for public service be nothing but plain politic ; Labour have always intend to do this , and now it be hide behind public service to justify it . those work on the frontline of healthcare in and alongside the NHS will be deeply impact . the Institute of General Practice Management estimate that the tax bill of each GP surgery will increase by £ 20 , 000 a year , likely result in a reduce number of appointment . the Nuffield Trust have say that provider in the adult social care sector will face a £ 940 million increase , dwarf the social care support announce in the Budget . Community Pharmacy England say that community pharmacist will be hit by an additional £ 50 million each year , inevitably cause pharmacy to close and service to deteriorate . Hospice UK warn that £ 30 million will be add to the bill for 200 hospice across the country , which will lead to great pressure on NHS palliative service . my hon . friend be a fellow Lincolnshire MP . in Lincoln we have St Barnabas hospice , a greatly love local institution where most people would want to spend their final day . we also have the Lincolnshire air ambulance , and we have GPs all over our huge county who be struggle . can he explain how it be in the public interest to attack these people ? my right hon . friend — a Lincolnshire colleague and Father of the House — put it perfectly . Labour say that it support public service and that those service be apparently be trash , so why on earth would the Government then go and tax they ? why add to their cost base , which they have very clearly say will reduce service across every constituency ? Labour Members will all walk through the Lobby tonight and add to the cost burden of those service . it do not make sense . charity have also signal the alarm , with more than 7 , 000 write to the Chancellor to warn of the £ 1 . 4 billion hit that they will face next year . do my hon . friend agree that Labour Back Benchers need to speak to their Ministers ? as my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) suggest , the Government can not have mean to do this deliberately . they could accept our amendment today or move some of the fund for the NHS — the £ 22 billion or £ 25 billion , whatever it be — across to this , because the NHS depend on social care and other service . at the moment , the Government risk turn something that could be a triumph for they into a disaster , both for the NHS and , more importantly , for patient and those most in need . once again , my right hon . friend make a valid point . as I have say already , I be not sure that this be intend . I do not think the Government understand what these measure will do to our community , to the sector I have outline and to the business that I will speak about in a minute . the Minister will have to address my right hon . friend ' s point . what will the Government do to mitigate the damage of the Bill on the community and organisation that I have highlight ? a sector I have not yet highlight be childcare , without which million of parent across the country could not go to work — include , by the way , many in this House . the Bill will contribute an average of £ 47 , 000 in additional cost per nursery next year , accord to the National Day Nurseries Association . the previous Government do so much to extend childcare to more family , boost workforce participation and economic growth , but this tax hike will pull we back from that progress . that be not what people vote for . there be no mandate for this harm . I urge the Government to think again . ideally , all employer would be make exempt , which be why the Conservatives vote against the Bill . at this time of year , people should be reflect on another year go by all too soon and look to the new year with hope , ambition and optimism , but so many employer will now enter 2025 with fear . many will be think again about that plan expansion or the investment in new equipment or premise . worse , some will be think about who they need to let go — never mind award the pay rise in the spring they once hope to give . my hon . friend be an astute man , and he have pick up on something that I fear . accord to S & P Global ' s purchase manager ' index , this have be the third consecutive month of job loss ; December have see the high number since 2021 , in the pandemic . it have say : " bar the pandemic , the survey have not see job loss on this scale since the global financial crisis in 2009 . " that be a direct impact of the choice in the Budget and this NIC increase . do my hon . friend agree that this be something the Government really need to think about ? I agree completely with my hon . friend , who have once again make a very astute intervention . it marry very clearly with what we have see in business confidence . he mention the record since the pandemic . business confidence have tank to low level that we have not see since the economy have to be shut down during the pandemic . a survey by the CBI , which make for stark reading , say that 62 % of business have say that they will have to reduce recruitment , while 48 % have say that they will be reduce exist staff level . that be all because this Bill will impact they in way they never imagine and be never tell about . whether business freeze or cut job , or , as the Chartered Institute of Taxation have warn , shift employee to a self - employ basis , or , even bad , offshore worker to overseas destination , the potential impact on employment should absolutely worry we all . that be why we have table new clause 1 , which would require the Chancellor to publish an assessment of the impact of this tax rise on the employment rate within a year of the passage of the Act . it be not controversial ; it just seek clarification and an assessment . this impact assessment be extremely important , not least because at a macro level — give that the UK be essentially a service - base economy in which human capital be the most expensive fix cost , effectively — there be no way to escape this tax . unlike corporation tax , which be levy on profit , this tax be levy whether a business be make a profit or not ; business that have be marginal but struggle may well be force into a loss , and may therefore choose to close down . it therefore have to be essential that we look backwards , if this tax go ahead , and ask what the impact have be from a service point of view . that be a classic case of how to make an intervention , because it add to the debate . I have not mention that point , but my right hon . friend be absolutely right . the impact on employer , who will pay the tax whether they be profitable or not , be absolutely right . that is , again , not something I think the Government have fully appreciate . we also know that the hit to employment be not the only consequence of the Bill . that be why new clause 1 focus on other factor in the economy , such as real wage , inflation and household disposable income . the OBR have make clear that by 2027 , 76 % of the tax will be pass on to work people through low wage and high price . it also estimate that inflation , have go through all that pain to get it down to the 2 % target , will be high — it be already on the way up — and that because the policy be fundamentally regressive , it will hit the bad - off the most . that , surely , be not intend . let I conclude by repeat what I say early . this be not what people vote for . there be no mandate for this harm . I urge the Government to think again . they can start by back our amendment at least to mitigate some of the impact of this damage Bill . today I stand proud to welcome the Budget , which take long - term fiscal planning seriously . I welcome a Government who will take we away from the course the previous Government steer , away from austerity , and away from the chaos and confusion of the past few Budgets . first , I want to make a brief point about tax simplification and the confusion across the Chamber in this debate and in the many amendment . the way to reform a tax system be not to argue for various exemption , relief and get - out clause for different subsector , but to have a consistent approach to collect tax apply across the whole economy and then to fund those sector of the economy , such as healthcare , transport and so on , which we should be fund . that be the approach the Budget have take . many member of successive previous government have say that we need to simplify our tax system . I suggest that ask for dozen of small amendment to a Bill be not a way to achieve that aim . as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) point out , that be not the way to run any tax system , not even on local government level . will the hon . Lady give way ? will the hon . Lady give way ? will the hon . Lady give way ? I will take two intervention . I will take one from the . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) . I be very grateful . the hon . Lady make a fantastic point about want to set out the tax base . the difficulty be that the Government be also spend on the NHS . fundamentally , GPs be private contractor to the NHS . care provider be private contractor . therefore , the Government have to make a choice : be they go to exempt they or will those private contractor have to pay ? at the moment , the Government have do neither thing . that be the fundamental argument we be have on these amendment in try to protect those contractor , because the Government have not make a choice . they have say that at some point there may be some payment along the way . that be the concern on the Opposition Benches . what be her answer to that ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention and for highlight the perilous state of GPs in my constituency of Earley and Woodley after 14 year of the previous Government strip away the NHS . I be very confident in the announcement make by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health , which he have make several time in this Chamber , to take all funding decision in the round . I very much look forward to see the quality of GPs improve . I also highlight the funding already announce for increase the number of practitioner in GP surgery . I expect to welcome they in my constituency , as well as across the UK . I return to my point about long - term fiscal planning . the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) make the point that we need to make choice . over and over again on the doorstep I have be tell that public service be break , that crime too often go unpunished on our high street , and that mortgage rate , which have shoot up wildly over the past few year , be too much of a burden on everyday family . all that create uncertainty and it be that economic uncertainty that hurt business . that be why I welcome , for the first time in many year , a credible budget that address the fundamental problem face our society . yes , we have to understand the current fiscal situation in the context of the bad decision that be make before we . we all know about the tax giveaway mini - Budget under Liz Trust and the perilous effect it have on gilt , pension fund and , of course , mortgage , for which we be all now pay the price . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will give way in a moment . I add to that the bad decision make in the previous two Budgets under the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) . those decision be not credible . it be not credible , on the March 2024 OBR forecast , that the next Government would do anything about school , special educational need and disability or the NHS . those be not credible promise make in the last two Budgets . those giveaway be make by government without a plan ; government who literally cut and run by call an early summer election so they would not have to face the consequence of their bad fiscal choice . they leave we with a bill to pay and this Government be now make that possible in a consider way . I be extremely grateful to the hon . Lady . she rightly highlight interest rate and mortgage payment . be she disappoint when the OBR ' s assessment of the Budget suggest that interest rate be go to stay high for long as a result of these measure ? I invite she to discuss the topic under discussion today , rather than the past Conservative Government . we can have debate on that , but what we be try to drill into today be the action of this Government and their real - world impact on those who can least afford it . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point . I always welcome conversation with the OBR , whose representative come before the Treasury Committee only a few week ago . in that Committee discussion , we have a full debate on its forecast . it find that the long - term infrastructure and capital spending in the Budget , which be make possible by the different tax announcement the Government have set out , mean that the economy will , in the long run , be 1 . 5 % large . I would add that the forecast in the OBR ' s assessment of the Budget have not yet take into account all the various detail of the measure that will be announce in the forthcoming month . I expect those forecast to improve . to return to the bill that the Government be now pay , we need to build back our economy and public service . that task require at least a decade of national renewal . that be why in the Budget we set out credible long - term funding commitment and plan for where the money come from . on small business , I recently spend Small Business Saturday out and about visit local employer across my constituency of Earley and Woodley . I agree very much that those small business be the backbone of our local economy ; they bring character and job to our high street . one such shop I visit be call undertwok , a shopfront on Wokingham Road . I ask the owner , Mark , what the Government could do to help small business like his . he say : " keep go with the focus on economic stability and clean energy . that ' ll bring more people our way . " small business know that the Government be on their side . they know that , because the Chancellor increase the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 , ensure that the rise in employer ' national insurance contribution will not hit the small business . those employ four member of staff on the minimum wage will not be hit by the measure . that mean that 865 , 000 employer will not pay any nic at all next year and over 1 million will pay the same or less than they do previously . the change have be very much welcome by the Federation of Small Businesses . the top concern I hear about from those retail business be not about nic , but about shoplifting and crime on our high street , which all too often go unpunished . the fund raise in the Budget allow we to employ over 13 , 000 additional neighbourhood police officer , police community support officer and special constable by 2029 . they will also fund 1 , 200 new police officer . introduce the specific offence of assault a shop worker and attach prison time to that offence be back up by the commitment to put £ 2 . 3 billion towards prison build over the next two year . that be an example of how we be help small business : not just by talk the talk , but by walk the walk fiscally . will the hon . Lady give way ? I have take two intervention , which be the number I set for myself , and we do like stick to number on the Government Benches . I be proud that the Labour Government be ask the wealthy individual and large business to pay a little more , so we can rebuild the foundation of our broken economy . that mean : more money into the NHS , with £ 25 billion in NHS funding over the next two year , which be sorely need in my constituency and across the country ; and £ 7 billion for education in the next financial year , include £ 1 billion for SEND . those be the kind of decision that would not be possible under the March 2024 forecast . opposition Members may look at the OBR assessment of that forecast if they be in any doubt about that . those decision would not be possible if the Government be not take important and serious decision . that be why I stand , very happily , to support the Budget that we set out . let I begin by draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) . increase employer ' national insurance contribution will be hugely detrimental not only to business , but to employee in my constituency . I have be contact by many local business which have express disappointment about the Chancellor ' s break of her manifesto promise not to raise national insurance contribution , anger that it have be do without a full realisation of the consequence for the wide economy , and fear that they may not be able to weather the impact of this decision . I want to take a few moment to share with the Committee some example of organisation in my constituency that have reach out to I to explain why these amendment be so necessary . Bradley Barns be a family - run nursery school in Malpas which provide full day care and early year education for nearly 80 family from the local community and surround area . access to quality childcare provision be vital for the many parent and carer who need to balance job with family life . of course , Bradley Barns hugely value all its employee , and be keen to be the good employer it can be . it currently employ 24 staff whose skill , time and care be vital to child during their formative year . however , while the impact of the Bill might force some business to lose staff , in the nursery sector , where the child - to - staff ratio be so critical — indeed , it be a legal requirement — Bradley Barns can not do that , and nor would it want to . Matt and Vicky , who run Bradley Barns , tell I that as a direct result of this policy , they will now need to find an additional £ 2 , 600 every year for each person whom they employ . the Government make clear in their manifesto that they would not tax work people , so who exactly do the Chancellor think will be pay for her decision ? it will be work people in Chester South and Eddisbury and across the country , and at many nursery school like Bradley Barns they will be leave with no option but to increase fee . for some family , the increase will not be affordable : that be the harsh reality of the Government ' s choice . I also want to highlight , as other have , the impact on the many hospice that provide vital support and care for people at the most vulnerable time in their life . I recently visit St Luke ' s Hospice and the Hospice of the good Shepherd , two of the wonderful hospice care for individual and family throughout my constituency , and meet their leader and staff . we know about the funding challenge that such hospice already face . they rely on the good will and generosity of so many people who donate . this ill thought - through Bill will add substantially to their cost , and none of we want to see they force to cut service or reduce the level of care that they provide . I sincerely hope that hospice , and the people for whom they care so brilliantly , do not pay the price of this policy , and that the compromise suggest by my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) be consider . so many business have contact I to share their concern about the detrimental impact of this decision . it will be feel by community pharmacy , by GPs who may be force to compromise on the care they provide for their patient because they be not eligible for employment allowance , by care provider and by nursery . the hon . Member have mention GPs . blackburn have one of the high number of patient per gp in the UK . not enough appointment be available , which place a huge strain on the Royal Blackburn Teaching Hospital , and only last week the hospital be put on red alert . do the hon . Member agree that increase national insurance contribution will mean few gp appointment in Blackburn , that the hospital — which be already in a dire state — will be in an even bad position , and that the situation will get out of control ? that be an important point . these be the unintended consequence that must be consider , and this be why we really must consider the amendment . the impact of the Bill will be feel throughout the economy : it pose the risk of high inflation , and it will mean few employment opportunity . this decision affect business both small and large , it affect our local and national economy , and it affect employee who will not enjoy a pay rise or , bad still , will potentially lose their job . part - time worker , especially in the hospitality sector , will be very badly affect . before these change a person could work 14 hour a week without incur employer ' national insurance contribution , but that have now be reduce to eight hour , which will be very disruptive to weekend shift in particular . do the hon . Lady agree that that be an especially negative consequence of the change ? that be another important point , about yet another group who will be badly impact by these ill thought - through change . I urge the Government to think again , and to back these very necessary amendment . I support the measure in the Budget . give the speech that we hear from the shadow Minister , before we get into the policy I want to pause and acknowledge the extraordinary contribution of small business in my constituency and throughout the country . every single day , countless individual take on the challenge of build and run these vital organisation . the task be not always easy , but it be a labour of love , involve long hour , personal sacrifice and financial risk . these business be the heartbeat of our community and the backbone of the british economy , and we all owe they our deep gratitude . I have have the privilege of work for small business and witness at first hand the dedication that it take . member of my family have run small business , so I know how personal it be . it be not just a job ; it be a way of life , and a commitment to local community . we must celebrate and support the work of those business at every turn . since become an MP , I have make it a priority to listen to small business owner . their story , their challenge and their hope drive , and will continue to drive , my work in this Chamber , and let make it clear that this Government stand firmly behind they and will continue to do so . that be why I be proud that the Chancellor have agree to raise the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , a move that ensure that the small half of business will see either no increase or a reduction in their national insurance bill . it be a lifeline for the business that need it the most — and let we dispel the myth we have hear from Opposition member : 75 % of the fund raise from this policy will come from the large 2 % of business . but my plea to every single member of the Government be this : please keep engage and listen to small business , because they continue to need our support . I be sorry , but I will not take any lesson from the Conservatives on support small business when they have spend 14 year make their life miserable . when their government come to power I be work in the kitchen of a small business , the dolphin pub in Newport Pagnell High Street ; admittedly there be a bit of nepotism there , as my uncle Trev be the landlord . back then the high street be alive , but today it tell a very different story . many building be shutter , pub have close , and a number of our small business have be lose . under the last Tory Government , 10 pub close every single week — include , I have just read , many in the shadow Minister ' s constituency . in 2022 alone , 345 , 000 small business shut their door . member can walk up and down any high street in the country today and observe the toll . this Government be determined to turn the tide . too many shelf be empty after be raid by out - of - control shoplifter . the revenue raise through the national insurance change mean that the country can afford our manifesto commitment to 13 , 000 more police officer and staff who can crack down on the shoplifter who be affect many small business — and , as an aside , we will reverse the outrageous conservative decision not to pursue shoplifter for theft of good worth less than £ 200 . too many business , include some that survive world war and a global pandemic , be put at risk by the spiral cost and interest rate cause by the Liz Truss mini - Budget . the revenue raise from this Budget will close down the £ 22 billion pound black hole that the Conservatives leave to we , so we will not see a repeat of those disastrous event . too many small company see their energy bill skyrocket because of the disastrous energy policy of the last Government . we be set up great British Energy , a publicly own energy company that will invest in clean energy here in the UK and end our reliance on foreign oil and gas . too many small business be be cripple by staff shortage , often because worker be stick on NHS waiting list for month . because of the nic change , we can afford to put a record amount of investment into our NHS to get those waiting list down . do the hon . Member agree that because the previous Government gutte public health and primary care , there be now a crisis in the NHS ? although it be right that the Government want to move care away from hospital and back into the community , do he understand the concern of some of we on this side of the House that the move to increase national insurance contribution on GPs , dentist and pharmacist will actually undermine that drive ? I thank the hon . Lady for her contribution . I refer she back to the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) . our tax system have get even more complicated , particularly after the last 14 year , and we do not want to see the level of complexity , which cost business and organisation , continue to spiral out of control . it be important that we make these change in a simple way , but extra money be go into our NHS and will be flow through the system . at the moment , the Department of Health and Social Care be look at how to make sure that the extra funding be spend as effectively and efficiently as possible . I look forward to hear soon from the Health Secretary about how that money will benefit all element of our national health service , but I do not think that that be a reason to add extra complexity to an already complex tax system . we do not want to raise taxis , and I appreciate that decision like this be never easy — [ interruption . ] the Conservatives laugh , but they raise taxis to record level , break our public service and leave we with a £ 22 . 6 billion black hole . the reality be that they leave we with no choice . our goal be to lay the foundation for a thriving , resilient economy , where business can grow , community can prosper and future generation can thrive . what we have hear from the opposition today be a repeat of what get we into this mess time and again . Liz Truss promise unfunded tax cut and crash the economy . the last Tory leader promise unfunded tax cut and leave a £ 22 billion black hole . the Tory party be promise unfunded tax cut again , and will not say where the money be go to come from . that be what get we into this mess , and it be ludicrous to think that it will get we out of it . however , the mess that the Conservatives get this country into be about more than basic arithmetic ; it be a complete failure to achieve any economic growth . if growth in the UK have simply match the OECD average , worker would have £ 5 , 000 more in their pay packet and the Treasury would have £ 50 billion more in tax revenue , without have to raise a single penny in tax . just imagine how much well family would feel with that money in their pocket . we would not need to raise any taxis today if we have the extra tax revenue that be steal from we by the Conservatives ' failure . instead , they trap we in a cycle of low growth , low productivity and low investment . that be the grim legacy of a Government who fail to create condition for business to thrive . from a chaotic planning system to a revolving door of four Chancellors in five year , they have sow uncertainty at every single turn . let we not forget the economic self - harm of Brexit , which be execute without a clear plan . the Budget , include the nic change — on a point of order , Ms Nokes . we be debate the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill , in which I be not sure that Brexit be mention . I look to your leadership to decide whether the hon . Gentleman be in order . I thank the hon . member for his point of order . he will be aware that it be important that member stay in order . the hon . member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) have give some context in his speech , but he might be remind of the need to stick to national insurance contribution . thank you , Ms Nokes . I be happy to count the number of time I have mention national insurance in my speech , but I can guarantee Conservative member that it have be quite frequent . I will mention it again in the follow sentence . the Budget , include the nic change , make hard decision to fix the foundation of our economy . we will work tirelessly to bring about the economic growth that the previous Government fail to achieve , so that we do not have to make such hard decision in the future . it be only by do so and not engage in the fantasy economic of the conservative party that we can break free from the cycle of failure , support business of all size and create a bright future for our country . I be proud to have table several amendment to the Bill to support people in Northern Ireland and , indeed , the organisation that lobby I to do so . amendment 10 , 11 and 12 seek to protect Northern Ireland ' s healthcare , social care , childcare , hospice , and community and voluntary sector from the impact of the propose rise in employer ' s national insurance contribution . those sector provide vital service in Lagan Valley and right across Northern Ireland , yet they be be ask to bear a disproportionate burden without the ability to mitigate the cost . let I begin by recognise the importance of sustainable funding for public service . my party welcome many aspect of the Chancellor ' s inaugural Budget , include change to fiscal rule , NHS investment , and the unpausing of city and growth deal . however , we be deeply concerned about the consequence of the national insurance increase for critical sector in Northern Ireland that be already operate under immense financial strain . during the last five year , community and voluntary group have play a critical role , from support our community during the covid - 19 pandemic to respond to the ongoing cost of living crisis . however , despite their vital contribution , they be once again treat as peripheral when it come to matter of funding and taxation . in Northern Ireland , our high public sector dependency and chronic underfunding mean that such group in our region be uniquely vulnerable to the rise in NI . indeed , the recent Executive monitoring round in October make it clear that the Barnett consequential remain inadequate to cover departmental overcommitment . community and voluntary organisation be not an optional extra . they be currently a cornerstone of public service delivery , often co - design and implement essential programme in partnership with Government . however , when financial pressure mount , they be frequently leave to shoulder an unfair burden . the national insurance hike risk far entrench that inequity . such organisation should not be regard as expendable . they must be exempt from the increase , which be precisely what my amendment seek to achieve . Northern Ireland ' s hospice be overwhelmingly reliant on private donation , and member from across the House have refer to the Westminster Hall debate that we have only a few week ago . regardless of their opinion on the subject , everyone recognise the importance of hospice , yet the propose NI rise will see some of their door close . that be the reality of what we be face today . as for try to get a GP appointment , good luck — not just in Lagan Valley and Northern Ireland , but right across the UK — as general practice be struggle to meet the many demand that be put on it . today I want to highlight the unique circumstance that we in Northern Ireland face . the challenge be not abstract ; they be real , tangible and deeply feel by my constituent . it should come as no surprise to member present that Northern Ireland ' s health waiting list be some of the long in Europe , and far exceed those in the rest of the UK . despite be the bedrock of our healthcare system and be under immense financial strain in Northern Ireland , provider such as GPs , dentist and pharmacist be currently not exempt from the rise in NI , even though they be already struggle under immense cost pressure . capacity reduction in primary care be simply not an option for Northern Ireland . dental practice , particularly those provide NHS service , which be in high demand , have see operating cost surge by 30 % to 40 % since 2019 . with Department of Health funding fail to keep pace , many practice be unable to provide affordable care to patient . indeed , anecdotal and evidential data show that , in some area of deprivation , young child be present with extreme tooth issue and have nowhere to go . in a joint statement early this month , Community Pharmacy NI , the British Medical Association NI , the British Dental Association NI and Optometry NI say : " medical , pharmacy , dental and optometry provider be the front door to the health service for family across Northern Ireland and vital for the transformation of care here . yet these service be under extreme financial pressure , result in the closure of general practice . " indeed , the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) mention that many gps be be force to hand back contract . the statement continue : " without adequate protection from these UK Government policy change , the precarious position of Family Practitioner Services in Northern Ireland will deteriorate far . it be now an urgent imperative for the UK Government to protect primary care or risk the collapse of these vital service in community across Northern Ireland . " I turn to the voluntary and community sector . the voluntary sector employ over 55 , 000 staff in Northern Ireland and deliver essential service , often on behalf of Government . new research from the Northern Ireland Council for Voluntary Action have reveal the devastating impact this NIC increase will have on the sector . a recent NICVA survey of 68 organisation find that 76 % expect major financial impact , with additional cost of between £ 5 , 000 and £ 200 , 000 annually . one social care provider anticipate annual increase of up to £ 500 , 000 . many organisation predict inevitable redundancy , particularly in core administrative role . service reduction will hit childcare , disability support , mental health service and community programme the hard . NICVA ' s chief executive , Celine McStravick , have say : " unlike public sector organisation , we have no protection against these rise cost . without immediate government intervention , we ' ll see widespread service reduction , job loss , and diminish support for our most vulnerable community . " as NICVA have point out , the voluntary sector play a unique and irreplaceable role in deliver service across Northern Ireland . without support , the financial sustainability of this sector will be significantly compromise , leave thousand of vulnerable individual without the help that they need . social care and hospice be also feel the strain of the policy . both sector be crucial in alleviate pressure on public service and support the NHS , yet they operate on razor - thin margin . social care provider , who deliver 98 % of home care service in Northern Ireland , face similar challenge . rise cost will force many to freeze wage and reduce hiring . at the start of this year in Northern Ireland , some of our hospice be under real pressure . everyone across the political spectrum rally to try to prevent the problem , but this be beyond our control . it be not something that work together , cross - party , at the Executive table in Northern Ireland can fix . we need a response today from central Government . Childcare be also under immense strain . government funding for childcare be different in Northern Ireland from in the rest of the UK , and scheme such as the 30 hour of free childcare do not exist for we . while the Northern Ireland childcare subsidy scheme have provide temporary relief to some family , it offer no direct support to childcare provider face mount overhead . furthermore , the scheme be available only to family who use tax - free childcare and have child below school age , and it be set to end in March 2025 . without long - term investment and structural reform , the childcare sector can not achieve the stability and sustainability require to meet the commitment in the programme for government to deliver " more affordable childcare " . research from the early Years , Care , Education and play Employers ' Forum reveal a deeply troubling picture of workforce and operational challenge in Northern Ireland ' s childcare sector . nearly 50 % of setting report vacancy , with many struggle to attract qualified candidate . salary for childcare role often fail to reflect the responsibility involve , particularly in management role , and the quality of applicant be often poor , with over half of job applicant deem unsuitable . retain experienced staff remain difficult , with many employer resort to strategy such as offer reduce hour or non - financial benefit to maintain their workforce . rise cost mean that less than 1 % of setting can offer pay increase as an incentive , leave staff retention effort constrain . these challenge be compound by the grow demand for specialised care in Northern Ireland , where an estimate one in five child present with special educational need . without sufficient staff or resource , many setting be struggle to meet these need effectively . Childcare provider in my constituency have be clear : the plan national insurance increase will force they to make impossible choice : reduce the quality of care , raise fee for family already struggle with the cost of live or close entirely . that could have enormous , far - reach consequence beyond the immediate loss of job in the sector . without access to affordable and reliable childcare , parent do not have the support that they need to remain in the workforce . rise childcare cost risk force even more parent , predominantly woman , out of work or to reduce their hour , which would far exacerbate gender inequality in employment . that surely go against everything that this Government want to do on growth . the impact be particularly concern in Northern Ireland , where economic inactivity remain a significant challenge . the loss of workforce participation not only affect household income but hinder economic growth , reduce tax revenue and place additional strain on social welfare system . it be therefore essential that the UK Government mitigate the impact of the propose national insurance hike , include through direct support for childcare provider and an extension of scheme such as the childcare subsidy to ensure the sector ' s long - term stability and sustainability . I table my amendment because I understand what really matter to my constituent : care for their love one , support in time of need , and the organisation that make a difference in our community . in Lagan Valley , local hospice and voluntary organisation be at the heart of our society , deliver essential , life - change work . there be no question but that systemic reform be essential for fiscal sustainability in Northern Ireland , but punitive measure that undermine critical sector be not the answer . increase national insurance contribution at the expense of those who provide and rely on vital service be simply unacceptable . the amendment be about fairness . they recognise the unique challenge face Northern Ireland , and aim to protect sector that be under immense pressure . Healthcare provider , voluntary organisation and childcare service be the lifeblood of our community and can not be leave to shoulder additional financial strain . I urge the Government to support the amendment in order to safeguard the service that underpin our society . Northern Ireland ' s people already face significant economic and social inequality . we need investment and support to build a fair , more sustainable future , not far strain on our vital sector and community . this Labour Government will invest to rebuild our broken nation . investment in our future will be pay for by tax revenue , and today we be debate the large revenue - raise policy in our Budget . I be proud that revenue will be raise from the large business to fund the home , job and skill that we need to create a good , affordable life for we all . for those of we in our nation who can not afford a decent life , the picture have become increasingly bleak : non - graduates and the young be lock out of the opportunity that previous generation have , and there be not enough home , good job or skill . we be raise the money for investment in home , job and skill from those who be most able to afford it . we be raise £ 23 billion — investment that every business , family and young person will benefit from — and 75 % of the revenue be from the large 2 % of business . we be raise that money while protect the small business by increase the employment allowance ; the Federation of Small Businesses have say that that be a huge help as we bring in this revenue raiser . half of all business will pay the same or less , and a quarter of a million will see their tax bill fall . the hon . Gentleman be most gracious for give way . he be also a highly distinguished economist . he have talk about this record tax - raise element . what will the net value of the £ 23 billion or £ 26 billion be , after we have look at behaviour change , reduction in corporation tax receipt and compensation of the public sector ? how much of that will come into the Government coffer ? I thank the right hon . member for his incredibly kind word . for I , this be actually rather simple . I follow the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast , which go through the Treasury policy cost and get sign off . those be the number I look at , and that be the money that will come in . we be raise the money , as set out in those forecast , in a fair way to invest in our future prosperity . we be use that money to build the home that we need . in the mid - 1990 , it take a young person around three year to save for a deposit . now it be over 14 year , and in London it be nearly 30 . that be why nearly half of young people be live at home with their parent , and why we be invest the tax revenue from the measure that we be discuss in the affordable home programme . that mean more home for young people . we be also use this money to create good job . the idea that someone could leave school and get a decent wage leave our nation long ago . there be low - pay and insecure service job for some , but many be unable to get a job at all . today , around 15 % of young people be not in education , employment or training . our warm home plan , which will upgrade 300 , 000 home , will also create ten of thousand of good job . analysis show that this measure will hit the low pay and the young hard . it will not help young people to get all the thing that the hon . Gentleman describe , because they be the group who will find thing most difficult as a result of it . the young and the low pay work in the small business . some analysis , include that from the Institute for Fiscal Studies , do not include these measure , and do not have match employer - employee dataset . indeed , Paul Johnson admit as much when he come before the Treasury Committee . I be grateful to my fellow Leicestershire MP for give way . one of the way that we can judge the market be by look at vacancy . James Reed , who run the Reed recruitment agency , have see a 13 % drop in advertisement on the company ' s website . he have sound the alarm that that could be a sign of recession , and that be the implication of what we be vote on today . how will the measure support young people if there be no job out there for they ? I direct the hon . gentleman to today ' s labour market statistic . employment be still high ; unemployment be about the same as it be ; and I think inactivity be fall . in the official statistic , the picture look good . more broadly , vacancy be not the measure that we want to look at . instead , we want to look at the number of people in job . the revenue that we be raise today will be invest in action that directly create those good job . the warm home plan will upgrade 300 , 000 home , which be ten of thousand of good job . the expansion of early year childcare be ten of thousand of good job . business need to know that they have the healthy workforce that they need , and more people who be available to work . this be a Budget for growth and for job . the hon . Gentleman talk about the expansion of early year childcare , but that will not be of much use if nursery shut down because they can not pay their national insurance . do he understand that dynamic ? I absolutely understand the benefit of early year childcare , which be why we be so proud that it be a key part of this Government ' s opportunity mission and be one of our milestone . we know that money invest today will pay dividend in the future . Labour member we be absolutely committed to expand and invest in early year childcare . more broadly , this measure be also about invest in our young people . one in three young people be experience mental health problem , and one in 20 be too sick to work . that number be only rise . there have be a threefold increase in health problem that make it too difficult to do day - to - day activity . this generation of mine be without hope and without health . for those who have be strike down by hopelessness , and who be now too sick to work , our " get Britain work " programme , combine health , skill and employment support , be rebuild confidence . it be help people into good job , and be restore dignity , purpose and sense of community to every person and place in our nation . this Bill speak to our govern philosophy , which be that those with the broad shoulder should carry the heavy load . as we have see , we be change our nation and rebuild hope in our community , our country , and indeed our democracy . we be build a country that get well , rather than bad ; where every person can get a good job ; where every person can afford a decent home ; and where every person can get the skill that they need , so that we can all live once again in a country where work hard mean a decent life . that be what we be invest in , and that be why we be proud to raise revenue through the measure that we be debate today . I rise to support the amendment and new clause 1 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) . if this Government ' s goal be to fix the foundation , I be afraid the result have be subsidence . business confidence have plummet , and two third of firm think that Labour ' s Budget , include the NI increase , will damage investment . an economy grow on the back of hard - work people invest , take risk and employ local people in constituency like mine of Mid Bedfordshire . how do the Labour party reward those people for their hard work ? it raise their taxis , it make it hard for they to employ people , and it reduce the amount they take home at the end of the month . it justify that by tell they that they be not really work people . conservative understand that growth be create from the hard work of entrepreneur up and down our country , drive our economy forward . across the country , million of people want strong economic growth . that be what they vote for , but they now have a low - growth , high - tax , job - cut Labour Government . they be promise change , but they do not expect that change to be to labour ' s manifesto commitment not to increase national insurance . that change hike the cost of employ someone by £ 800 , reduce the number of job in the economy , reduce the wage of work people and increase price in shop . if member be not convince by all those thing , I recommend that they join we in vote for the perfectly practical , perfectly reasonable , very pragmatic new clause 1 so that the impact can be assess within a year . conveniently , the Government now talk of prevent tax increase on the payslip of work people , but under this job - cut Government , some constituent will now be lucky if they have a payslip at all . far from a government for growth , this Government believe that the reward for work hard and create job should be even high taxis . in a nutshell , Labour ' s policy cut job , cut wage , hike taxis and hike price — all while tell people that Labour be on their side . our constituent be not fool , so I sincerely ask Labour Members to consider whether they come into Parliament to increase taxis on their GPs , on their care worker , on their charity and on their nursery , or to add to the burden on hospice , like Keech hospice in Mid Bedfordshire , on local air ambulance and on charity such as the Greensand Trust , which do amazing work on environmental conservation in my constituency . they do not , so Labour Members should stand up to their leadership today , for the sake of hard - work people throughout our country , and stop this job tax . it be extraordinary to follow Opposition Members , with their short - sightedness and , frankly , short memory of the damage they have do to this country . indeed , it be the very definition of chutzpah . I have be in this place for 14 year , and I watch what happen unfold in my constituency and across the country . that be how we get to this Bill today . new mp may wish to rewrite history , but many of we can give testimony to the damage the Conservatives do . this country should be grateful that we now have a Chancellor who be face up to the fantasy public finance that we inherit from the previous Government , and who be try to rebuild this nation . we finally have a framework for improve our rail service . anybody think about get on a train this Christmas know how far we have to go . the damage lie at the door of the previous Conservative Government . this government be devolve meaningful power to local government and generate clean electricity , which be just two thing that the previous Government could not even understand , let alone get a grip of . we be certainly develop a well approach to our infrastructure . in their final year in office , the Conservatives pass tax cut that the country could not afford . there may have be genuine shock around the world , but we can see the damage the Conservatives do , and we can see that they choose to compound it with bad choice . they do not just break Britain ; they slash it and burn it to the ground . that mean this Government ' s first year in office be a salvage operation . the previous Government ' s decision to prioritise fake tax cut over sustained investment in our public infrastructure have cost we all dearly . those who be sceptical of what I be say should stand in an A & E and see the trolley in the corridor , as 7 . 9 million people still wait for operation . they should talk to the school with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , to the council barely cling on to provide social care , and to the police who just do not exist on our street . will the hon . Lady give way ? for donkey ' s year , I listen to the right hon . Gentleman try to claim that this country be on the up . I have see the alternative . please let he justify that . as the hon . Lady know , 4 million job be create under the last Conservative Government . she have just talk movingly about patient stick on trolley in corridor . could she explain to the Committee how the Labour Government ' s policy in England will differ from the policy of the Labour Government in Wales , which have far bad outcome and bad waiting list than anywhere in England . I will tell the right hon . Gentleman what this Government be go to do differently : they will make a difference to all our constituent by get waiting list down with the money provide to invest in our NHS . the previous Government be all vandal , and we have see the damage they have do . the challenge before we in the Bill be to ensure this government do not make the same mistake , but instead address head - on the need to build the necessary foundation . to deal with the expectation of the public — our constituent — we need to talk more openly about the fact that have well service require well funding through taxation . the break Britain we now see will not fix itself with a bit of time . bad , the public can not be distract from the problem they see by be give someone else to blame — tran people , refugee , immigrant , woman or foreigner generally . that be a fantasy the british public do not buy at the last election , and they should not be promise it again . they know we have a difficult road ahead and difficult choice to make , but they will back those choice if they can see there be a reason to do so . above all , the british public understand that this country need investment and growth . I be chair of the Labour Movement for Europe and I think there need to be discussion about our future relationship with Europe , but that be for another time . we also need infrastructure , which be why I have propose new clause 4 . infrastructure be not just about road and rail , but about the service people need every day to be able to get to work and to manage their commitment , include childcare . as somebody who spend 14 year urge the previous Government to invest in childcare , I will brook no lecture from the opposition now they have have a damascene conversion to the idea that it matter . Childcare be economic infrastructure . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) be chuntere from a sedentary position , but time and again he vote against proposal to make childcare a matter of economic infrastructure . new clause 4 be about how good we invest in our people to be able to grow our economy . as we make tough choice , it be important we do so in a way that mean our productivity improve , which mean look out for parent as well as pothole . we be in the middle of the big expansion of childcare this country have ever see , to try to get to a point where every parent can access 30 hour of free childcare for all under - five . under the last government , some parent be pay more for childcare than for their rent or their mortgage . the previous Government repeatedly fail to invest , and then they make promise that they know they could never keep , push up demand without increase supply . we must not make the same mistake . it be vital for our economy to make childcare more accessible and affordable , and we know we have a way to go . in rural area , there be 31 % few childcare place compare with inner city and town centre . the most deprived community have 32 % few place per child , compare with affluent area . of the poor fifth of parent with young child , only a third use formal childcare , compare with 73 % of the high earning household . the previous Government reinforce that inequality , rather than address it in their childcare policy . that be why in my constituency there be still three child chase every single childcare place . the hon . Lady have always be an advocate for childcare . one way the previous Government try to address the issue be to try to stop the cliff edge for childcare by look at household rather than individual parent . in the last Budget , the Government be look at the proposal to consider household as one unit . do that mean the hon . Lady have change her mind and would support that mechanism be look at again ? it would solve a lot of the problem cause by , for example , a single parent have to pay for childcare because they be exempt , whereas a household contain a couple who earn under £ 45 , 000 be not eligible . let I reach the hand of co - operation across the House to the hon . Gentleman , if he want to finally work on what would be a genuinely affordable and accessible childcare system in this country . however , I will temper his enthusiasm , because his party make thing bad . under the previous Government , there be a 50 % reduction in childcare place . we see nursery closing time and again because of the change his Government make . we be start from a foundation where the place simply do not exist . for the place that be there , too often it be those who can well afford childcare who be take they . if we be to get to a position where we have the childcare place we need , so that every child can get the good start in life in this country , we need to invest . we need to ensure that we save what be there and encourage those nursery that can expand to do so . if we do that , we will reap the reward , both in the Exchequer and in society . that be why early year provision matter to the future of this country . research by the Education Policy Institute show that 40 % of the disadvantage gap at the age of 16 have already emerge by the age of five . equally , investment in early year mean we could save £ 16 billion a year later , accord to the London School of Economics . it also mean we will get more money , because more people — mother , father and carer — can make the choice to work and pay tax . the hon . Lady be make a compelling case about the need to invest to save . when we invest upstream in our public service , that often save money for the taxpayer far down the line . do she agree with the Liberal Democrats that that could be equally apply to invest in GPs , dentist and pharmacist to relieve pressure on the NHS ? I have work with the hon . Lady on various issue , and I hope she will give I the latitude to expand my argument and set out my proposal , which we could move forward on together as a House . I do not doubt her sincerity , but I also recognise the fiscal destruction of the previous Government that we need to deal with , which mean we need to tell the british public the truth about what need to happen . make unfunded promise be as bad as not promise to act . parent survey show that a real difference be make when 30 hour of childcare be offer . that amount of childcare enable family to make choice about get back into work . if we want to get to 30 hour by September next year , we need 60 , 000 additional childcare place and 29 , 000 extra member of staff . if we do not have fundamental root and branch reform of how we fund the provision of childcare , that will cost about £ 72 million extra a year on hire staff alone . that be the challenge we face if we want to get this right . I know how hard the Minister be work to get the economy grow again . I know he be go to hear plea from every single sector about the impact of the national insurance change ; nobody should be under any illusion that they be not difficult change . I make a plea for the childcare sector because I believe that in the end , it will pay for itself . if we be able to get more people back to work , especially mum , who all too often end up bear the burden of childcare , we will be able to raise more taxis and there will be more investment as a result . that be particularly true of the childcare sector because it be a people - intensive industry . staffing cost make up 75 % of a nursery ' s run cost , compare with 30 % for the average restaurant . because the previous Government systemically fail to invest in childcare , the majority of childcare have be provide by the private sector . some 85 % of place be deliver outside the state sector . there be little flexibility on number in the sector , because ratio — the number of people look after little people — matter . these be not business with small number of staff ; an average nursery have 14 member of staff , which mean the additional cost will be about £ 36 , 000 to £ 39 , 000 a year . around £ 14 , 000 of that will be national insurance . many member agree that we need to invest in that childcare and will be pleased to see this Government try to address the balance . the damage do under the previous Government mean that 83 % of nursery provider say the funding they receive do not cover their cost . that be why closure increase by 50 % in the last couple of year . this Government have already increase the funding for our nursery , but while that take account of increase in wage cost , it do not take account of the increase in national insurance . I table new clause 4 , which be about have a review of one element of all that , to ensure that we do not cut off our nose to spite our face when try to get more people into work . we recognise that extra national insurance cost may have consequence , be they recruitment freeze , reduce staff training or even closure , at a time when we want the sector to expand . indeed , the majority of nursery have staff vacancy , so they need extra people already . the hon . Lady be make a compelling case of logic as it apply to early year provision , and I do not think anybody in this place could argue with the logic she advance . be it not so robust , however , that it also apply to primary care , hospice and charity , if it apply to nursery ? I hope the hon . Gentleman recognise that I be talk about a specific function of the way in which the childcare sector operate and the fact that it generate public Exchequer funding when we get people back into work . my argument here be that we invest to save . this be specifically about childcare . I be sure the hon . Member have read new clause 4 in depth , by the look on his face . indicate assent . he will therefore understand why I suggest that we as a Parliament could look at how we address those issue . right now , the sector be concern . I do not think that be a surprise to anyone . it may be a damascene conversion for the conservative party to suddenly care about it , but there be a concern across the sector about not go backwards . clause 3 will increase the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 and will reduce the current £ 100 , 000 threshold . it might be perceive that for some small business , particularly in the childcare sector , that would be a potential way forward in reduce some of the impact of the change so those business can continue to expand . however , the challenge be right now , with the majority of childcare provider not qualify for the employment allowance because of the way in which the sector operate and because it have be ignore , dismiss and deride by previous government . the majority of position be produce in the private sector . that mean they do not qualify . there be perhaps an unintended irony in all that , however , which be that invest in more childcare , as we be do , mean that many of those small business will not be eligible for the employment allowance . as it be about company that receive less than 50 % of their income from public funding , while many childcare provider be originally in that position before money start go into they , the irony be that many few will be in that position in the come year as a result , mean that they will be deny the opportunity . Childcare provision in educational setting will be able to benefit , so it be not a total denial . that mean that if we be look to expand childcare , in the current environment and without look at how we can make that an equal opportunity for all childcare provider , that will have to be do through the state sector , which mean have to find nursery that can be provide in spare classroom or childcare setting within an educational setting . that account for a small amount of the structure in place at the moment , and there be a risk that we will not see the investment in expansion because expansion in previous time have come through the private sector . my concern , if I be frank , be that this be a perfect storm of our own making . with the good intention of invest money from the Budget in childcare , we may inadvertently make it hard to expand childcare . that be why we need a review , because it be not clearcut that that will be the outcome , which be why I have table new clause 4 . I also urge Ministers to look at business rate , which currently add around £ 21 , 000 to the average nursery . we find support in the Budget for those in retail and hospitality . we could look again at the childcare sector on the same basis . above all , we need to raise those question and ask how we can ensure that we do not see a curtailment of childcare in this country , because the reality be that fee will then go up , make it even hard for parent to use it . that be what the Pregnant then screw survey be show we : 90 % of parent who have a place be terrified that cost will go up in the come year , and 60 % say that if that happen they would reduce their hour or leave work altogether . this be a tough time , this be a tough budget , and there be tough decision to be make . we be not shy away from that and I be proud to be a member of a political party in government that be get a grip of this country ' s need . however , I be also determined , as I be sure be everybody on the Back Benches , to make sure that we do that in the good way possible . if the Minister will not accept new clause 4 , I hope he can tell we what work the Treasury be do to ensure that childcare as a form of economic infrastructure can grow and support this country as it recover from the last 14 year of Conservative Government . we know that all those who will be affect — in the choice to work , to stay in work and to stay open and run a nursery — be literally the one who have be pay the price of have a Conservative Government . we do not wish to make they pay all over again . the Conservatives break Britain . we now need to be honest about the work and the investment that it will take to repair it . I be greatly concerned about the consequence of this Bill . there be consequence for business , for employee and for essential primary care provider in my constituency and across the country . the Bill represent an unfair job tax that risk harm the livelihood of countless individual and the viability of small business at a time when they be already grapple with a multitude of challenge . I wish to begin by highlight the impact that this legislation will have on community pharmacy , which be at the frontline of healthcare in our local area . the owner of Horton Pharmacy and Travel Clinic in Epsom have express grave concern about the financial burden that this increase in employer national insurance contribution will impose . he tell I : " we be estimate that it ' s go to cost an extra £ 12 , 000 a year . it ' s very distressing and make it hard to keep our door open and help reduce the burden on other part of the NHS . " community pharmacy such as Horton Pharmacy play a critical role in alleviate pressure on our overstretched NHS by provide accessible healthcare and advice , yet the Bill threaten their financial viability , which in turn risk leave constituent without the local care they rely on , thus increase the burden on the NHS . be the hon . Lady aware that the National Pharmacy Association have agree to collective action for the first time in its history , directly as a result of this Government ' s Budget ? do she have any comment on that ? yes , I be aware of that and I agree that it be a good way forward . another business in my constituency , the Family Building Society , be also face substantial repercussion . last Friday I meet its chief executive officer , Mark Bogard , who share that this national insurance increase will cost he approximately £ 300 , 000 every year . he say : " even as a mutual building society , with no shareholder to generate return for , we can not simply swallow that cost . so , go forward , we will inevitably now employ five or six few people . " Madam Chair , these be real - world example of the damaging ripple effect of the Bill . it will hit not just business , but employee , with few job , low wage and miss opportunity . this Government claim that they want to kickstart economic growth , but how can firm grow when they be force to cut job instead of invest in their business . how can the economy thrive when ambition be replace with survival ? this Bill do not kickstart economic growth ; it slam on the brake . across the board , this Bill threaten sector vital to our economy and to society . social care provider , GPs and hospice , already at break point , will now face further financial strain . Most of these organisation do not qualify for the employment allowance , mean that they be expose to these increase . the Liberal Democrats have call on the Government to exempt these essential provider from the tax rise , but those call have be ignore . this decision will worsen the crisis in our NHS and social care system , push more provider to the brink of bankruptcy . six in 10 care home in the UK be operate by company vulnerable to even mild economic shock . how then can the Government justify impose additional financial burden on a sector already struggle to stay afloat ? let we be clear : the Government ' s own analysis admit that nearly four time as many employer will lose out under this Bill as will benefit . for many employer , this will translate into an average annual tax increase of over £ 26 , 000 . this be not just a job tax , but a growth tax , a productivity tax and , ultimately , an attack on people ' s living standard . this be a deeply inefficient way to raise fund , especially when fairer alternative exist . the Liberal Democrats have propose several measure that would raise revenue without harm job and growth . these include reverse conservative tax cut for big bank , increase the digital service tax and introduce a fairer form of capital gain tax to ensure that ultra - wealthy people pay their fair share . these measure would protect small business , support family and safeguard essential service , while still address the country ' s fiscal challenge . the people of Epsom and Ewell deserve well . they deserve a Government who support , not stifle , innovation , enterprise and community spirit . they deserve a Government who listen to small business , healthcare provider and family who be already struggle under the weight of rise cost and stagnant wage . this Bill be not the solution to our economic challenge ; it be a blunt instrument that will do more harm than good , jeopardise job , living standard and essential service . I urge the Government to reconsider this unfair and counterproductive measure and to work with we to develop a fair , more sustainable approach to taxation that prioritise people and community . I wish to start by reflect on something that the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) say in his opening speech . he talk about socialist think that taxis just flow in . give that he be a member of a Government that raise taxis to their high level in history , perhaps this season it be less secret Santa for he , and more secret socialist . perhaps , if he be lucky , under his Christmas tree on 25 December he will find a red flag that he can fly . I jest , Madam Chair , but the point be that that Government agree with tax and spend — they tax ; the trouble be what they choose to spend the money on . that be the difference between this Government and the Government that come before : we have make clear commitment about what we will spend the money raise by this national insurance Bill on . we will make investment into the NHS and our public service , such as our school and hospital , and we will fix the railway . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) chunter , but I can not actually hear what he be say . if he wish to intervene , I will happily give way — no , I think not . the fact of the matter be that although this be not a decision that I would particularly have like the new Government to make , have look at the lever available to we and have make a political choice to protect the pay packet of individual in work , this be a way of raise revenue . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I often think that we do not hear enough from the right hon . Gentleman , so on this one occasion I will give way . give the competition on the Labour Benches , the hon . Gentleman be one of the more honest and up - front member in address some of the issue . do he regret the exclusion of the various group we have hear of today , from hospice to social care and childcare ? will he urge Ministers to look at whether they can create a more coherent and join - up approach , so that the £ 22 billion — or whatever it be — go into the NHS actually work to improve the healthcare of the nation ? if the right hon . Gentleman hang fire , he may be surprise by some of the thing I will say as I try to progress my speech . although , in that context , be it not laughable and ludicrous that some of the most important part of our social care sector — our air ambulance and our hospice — be dependent upon charity ; that they have to rattle tin in supermarket , dependent on handout and philanthropic grant on a non - reoccurring basis , just to continue the service they deliver ? there be a much broad conversation that we have to have as a nation about how far general taxation should fund some of those programme . the right hon . Gentleman roll his eye , but I would rather make a small contribution to ensure that hospice and air ambulance can run than to have to watch people sit in bath of bean to try to ensure that vulnerable people get the help and support they need when they need it . he may disagree with that , but we should discuss that broad point of how we fund some of those thing and whether we consider they to be vital infrastructure to our health and care system . do my hon . friend accept that any fair taxation system should place the big burden on those with the broad shoulder ? that mean tax the wealthy in this country , rather than hospice and the charitable sector . again , if my hon . friend bear with I , I will get to that point , but I absolutely agree in principle that taxation in this country should fall on those most able to make that contribution . there be also a question about how we spend that money and use it in preventative service . again , there be an argument to be have about how much of the money give to , for instance , the Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent integrate care board be spend on reactive service that treat people , as oppose to preventative service that keep people well in the first place . there be definitely a discussion to be have in our community about whether the commission body that have the money be commission the preventative service necessary to reduce acute demand . last Friday I listen to the charity convene by Voluntary Action Stoke on Trent , and they themselves say that their big challenge before the national insurance increase be even moot be the fact that they can not get recur funding year on year from health body , council and the public sector . when they manage to get to the end of a project , they be tell , " you ' ve do that project . come up with something new . " they be ask to redesign their service to chase a pot of money in order to deliver what essentially be the preventative service that stop the more acute service from face great demand . again , we as a nation need to have a conversation — in part it be bring to a head by this Bill — about what role we see for charity in this and how we fund those service . for a long time we in this place have have debate about ensure that the shift happen upstream in the sector , to support public health and primary care . do the hon . member accept that this measure will undermine the effort to put more investment upstream , and that it will force many charity to do even more fundraising to backfill the gap create by the national insurance contribution hike ? I absolutely agree . if the hon . Lady will bear with I , I will come to exactly that point later on . my constituency be often in the top 50 for social and economic deprivation , and we be often wholly dependent on the charitable sector pick up people when they be at their low and most in need . charity often do the really hard work in get those individual back to a place where they can even begin to access statutory support service , such be the demand place on they by the service with which they be seek to engage . let I take the example of support housing . we talk quite rightly about give people home , but many of the people in Stoke - on - trent who access the service that will be impact by the national insurance contribution increase would not be able to live independently on their own in the month to come if it be not for supported housing . as the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) point out , that have a huge bearing on the acute cost at the presentation of final service . last Friday , Voluntary Action Stoke on Trent , an excellent organisation run by Lisa Healings and her team , convene a meeting of local charity and the three Members of Parliament for Stoke - on - Trent . Lisa help I by compile some of the specific impact that the national insurance increase will have on charity and organisation in my community , and with the indulgence of the Committee , I will refer to some of they so that member can hear the scale of the challenge that we face . the first relate to the citizen advice bureau in Stoke - on - Trent , which do a phenomenal amount of work . it will see an increase of £ 150 , 000 to its national insurance contribution . although it will be able to mitigate some of that impact , the change will just mean that people wait long for help , or , perversely , that more people will enter mps ' caseload and visit our surgery because the CAB often signpost to other agency when it can not meet demand . the second large impact I be tell about be to the YMCA North Staffordshire , which will see its NI contribution rise by £ 101 , 000 . that organisation routinely provide home for young people who would ordinarily find themselves on the street , work with family to ensure that family unit can stay together , support community meal initiative to bring together different Stoke - on - trent community , and do a lot of work on community cohesion , which be a particularly contentious issue in my city . a small organisation , Savana , which I must declare be run by my ex - wife , although we be still on favourable term — rise — no — I will give way in a second . Savana be the provider of the rape and sexual advice service in Stoke - on - Trent . it get all its money from the Ministry of Justice ; it be essentially run a Government service by virtue of contract , yet it will now see an increase in its national insurance contribution of something between £ 16 , 500 and £ 17 , 000 , which will reduce the number of people it can support with independent domestic violence adviser and independent sexual violence advocate . the other half of its money come from the Home Office via the police and crime commissioner . again , that be essentially public money provide a public service that just happen to be provide by a charity that be not cover by the rebate provide to other organisation . Disability Solutions help those who be entitle to additional support to access it . that charity bring million of pound a year into the city , which have a cumulative economic benefit , because the money bring in be spend on our high street and in our local economy . the people it help be not the wealthy in my city ; they quite often have very little in their pocket , and every penny that be give to they be spend in the local economy . they do not hoard it in a savings account , put it into the Cayman Islands or use it as a downpayment on a new car or furniture ; they go out and buy food , shoe and school uniform for their child , or they use it in one of the local entertainment venue . North Staffs Mind face an impact of £ 55 , 000 . that organisation be specifically design to help people with their mental health , which the Government have rightly identify as a huge inhibitor to economic growth , because if people can not get their mental health sort , they can not get back into work . another mental health organisation , Changes , write to I to say that these change to national insurance would be unsustainable for they . finally , the Dove Service be a bereavement counselling service that face a cost of £ 2 , 000 . all those organisation be fill a void in state provision in my city . in essence , the hon . Gentleman have describe what we on the conservative Benches would have call the big society some year ago . do he share my concern , however , that that huge bank of volunteer who often prop up and form the support for the organisation he have describe be likely to drift away as their organisation come under pressure ? not only will there be a financial pressure , there will be a pressure on the resource of people who be volunteer , because they will just say , " if the Government be not prepared to help we this one little bit , why should we help ? " I actually do not agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s assessment , because in my city of Stoke - on - Trent , when there be need , people arrive to offer help . it be one of the thing that people often say ; we be a friendly , welcome people , and if someone be in need , we roll up our sleeve and get stick in . however , I agree that although dedicated volunteer be excellent , they be not a replacement for staff . in particular , they be not a replacement for the highly train staff who provide very bespoke service , such as some of the one I have mention . there be thousand of volunteer across Stoke - on - Trent , and I thank every single one of they for every moment of their time that they donate , but as the hon . Gentleman will know from his constituency , we sometimes talk about voluntary organisation as if they have no cost associate with staff , because they be entirely volunteer - run . I think everyone across this House would recognise that that be simply not the case ; if it be not for the cadre of professional who help co - ordinate those volunteer , thing would fall apart . although I have set out the challenge face in my city , I be not necessarily draw to some of the propose amendment that would set differential rate for charity or other organisation . that be not because I do not believe those organisation should not be protect from the national insurance increase that be come , but if we be say that they should have a differential rate , why should that rate not be zero ? why should we not just exempt they entirely ? I be also not convince that we would not see people seek to reorganise their own business to try to claim charitable status and reduce their own liability . fundamentally , I believe that pay tax be a patriotic duty — if someone should , then someone must . there have be record level of settlement for the NHS , and I accept the point that have be make about hospice and GPs . I sincerely hope that Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent ICB will make use of the well care fund , put some additional money into that fund to pay for the social care that could help offset some of the national insurance increase that will make those job much more difficult . however , many of the organisation I have mention receive their operate budget from Government , albeit passporte through fund , a local council or another public body . they be essentially run Government service — they be run a public service on behalf of the Government . be it not incumbent on we to make sure the service we ask they to provide be provide at the level we expect , and that we resource they efficiently ? I would like to think that the difference between this Government and the previous one be that we value the work sufficiently that we will pay those organisation correctly and accordingly . if the Minister could address those point when he sum up , I would be most grateful . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , who I be pleased to say honour his word at the beginning of his speech , quite rightly . I think that be because he have be in this House for some time and know the difference between legislative intent and legislative outcome . no one believe that the Minister on the Front Bench or other Ministers wilfully want to damage GPs and hospice — how could anyone reasonably want to do that ? however , that be the effect of this Budget of broken promise overall , and of the particular measure on national insurance contribution that we be debate today . no one have really explore where this measure come from , but the genesis of it be actually a desire , in the pre - election period , to reassure those with long memory who think that Labour be not a party of growth . in try to reassure the nation that Labour be on the side of business , it be say , " economic growth be mission no . 1 , so if you be an entrepreneur , you can relax , because we be on your side . " the other big fear about labour government over time be that they will come along and raise people ' s taxis . Labour therefore come out with very specific pledge and oft - repeat promise again and again , say that it would not raise an array of taxis , include of course national insurance contribution . that be why Paul Johnson , who be an independent commentator , say that he think this measure be an absolutely clear breach of that pledge . on come into power , the Government say there be this £ 22 billion black hole , and Labour Members have mention it again today . I think the hon . Gentleman be notable in not do so , because he know there be no substance to it . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? the hon . Gentleman can intervene to rectify that in a moment if he feel the need to do so for reason of tribal loyalty . again , the OBR say there be nothing in its calculation that support or validate — I think the word use be that it do not " validate " — the so - call £ 22 billion black hole , but let I give way to he so that he can rectify that omission . the phrase damn by faint praise spring to mind . to be clear , I think the analysis of the Treasury and the Chancellor of the state in which we find the public finance be absolutely accurate . I think the remedy we be take , while unpalatable to some , be necessary . I just wish we be able to mitigate some of the bad aspect of they . I thank the hon . Gentleman , and it be good of he to show that tribal loyalty . he do not criticise the OBR , but it say that it could not validate the so - call analysis . the £ 22 billion black hole do not exist , and it be quite clear from the OBR that that be true . let we , however , assume that the black hole be true : I think the Government be spend £ 1 , 270 billion this year , so let we assume that , in that £ 1 , 270 billion , this gargantuan black hole of £ 22 billion actually have veracity , while it do not . have go to the length of force even someone as up front and candid as the hon . gentleman to feel oblige under tribal Labour rule to keep back this measure , and have establish the figure , one would think that the Government would want to come forward with a tax rise , if that be what they want to do all along . alternatively , to give the Government credit , perhaps they come into office and find that thing be much bad than be think to be the case beforehand , in which case they would want to come up with a rational way of raise the fund with minimum possible damage . I suggest it could be say to be a fib , but let we say there be a £ 22 billion black hole and they need to fill it . the Government should come forward with sensible tax plan . the Government have renege on their pre - election promise , so why not renege on this one , and come forward with a sensible tax that do not particularly disincentivise those who be furth from the job market ? that be what the reduction in the NIC allowance to £ 5 , 000 do , and we know that it be particularly go to hurt people be struggle to get back into work , perhaps after a mental health episode , or perhaps because they be young and be struggle to get into the job market . there may be bad taxis than the way this one will work out . I think £ 26 billion be the headline amount that will be raise and take out the economy , but 76 % of that in year 2 or 3 — whichever it be — will come out of wage . by my rough arithmetic that mean about £ 19 billion be go to come out of pay cheque , which be the very thing the Government be try desperately to avoid do . this measure will take £ 19 billion out of pay cheque , and because of the reduction in investment , the reduction in employment and the result reduction in profit , it will net only £ 16 billion . then the Government , have get that £ 16 billion , have decide to compensate the public sector , and we know about this because of the change the OBR put out at the time of the election . it have to make a correction , because it have clearly be ask and tell to allow another £ 800 million or £ 900 million for social care , recognise the issue that have be raise so powerfully by colleague today . however , that be change and remove , and it have to make an amendment to its response . by the time we have take off the compensation as currently restrict to the public sector , which I think rise to about £ 5 billion , that take the net receipt to £ 10 billion or £ 11 billion . that be a £ 26 billion hit to the economy , a reduction in investment , high interest rate , low growth , and £ 19 billion remove from work people ' s pay packet — the people who Government member believe they be on the side of — yet the measure net only £ 10 billion or £ 11 billion to spend on public service . it be truly a ruinous approach to raise the money . the Government put so much political capital into make everyone on the Government Benches , however naturally honest they be , say fib about the £ 22 billion . they could at least have use that fig leaf to come up with a more sensible tax strategy . instead , have pursue that untruth , they none the less come up with an idiotic and backward stance . it be deeply damaging and regrettable . the right hon . Gentleman talk about a more sensible tax strategy , and we all agree that the change to NICs be an extraordinarily bad idea , particularly give the hit to growth . where would he raise that amount of tax from ? there be so many place where the Government have spend it . have claim this £ 22 billion black hole , they promptly agree a £ 10 billion pay rise for their trade union backer . train driver on more than £ 60 , 000 a year be get £ 10 , 000 pay rise while in talk about a four - day week . those train driver be not available for the holiday season , because they be so awash with that backdate pay increase that nobody want to do any overtime . there be so many other area . we have GB Energy to invest in renewable energy . I be the Energy Minister until April , and there be no shortage of investment available for renewable in this country . before anyone point to last year ' s failure to get offshore wind , that be because of the price window that we impose . we do not want to overpay for it . there be no shortage of appetite , as be show this year . one reason why we move to an annual programme be precisely to ensure that we do not overpay , but could bring on all the renewable we want . there be so many area where the Government could instead not spend the money that they have choose to spend . fundamentally — we need this conversation , include in my party — one of the thing that make the Conservatives the most successful democratic political party in the history of the entire western world , I be proud to say , be that we believe in proper analysis and defer gratification . we have to make sure that we have a grow private economy , because that be where wealth come from . if we allow money to fructify in the hand of those who create wealth , it will duly come back to the Treasury with interest , as the Financial Secretary of Hong Kong say many year ago , in rather more pithy term . the most important thing be to live within our mean , and to recognise the importance of feed the private sector economy , because it be only wealth from that sector that allow we to deliver the public service that we all want . I support new clause 1 . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central make it clear that he have concern about the Bill ' s impact , and I hope that the Minister can acknowledge that impact . at the very least , we should look back and check that the impact be , as I hope it will be , more akin to the growth - produce , foundation - fixing , black hole - remove vision of the Government . however , if by any mischance the combine opposition party be right about the Bill ' s disastrous impact on the most vulnerable , the people furth from the labour market and the rest , we should find out the truth , and whether the Minister or his colleague the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central be correct . I also support amendment 13 to 18 . the NHS be the centrepiece of the tax - raise and spend element of this Budget , and this rise in national insurance contribution will contribute £ 22 billion — or £ 20 billion ; I hear different number at different time , but I will stick to £ 22 billion — to the NHS . there be a couple of way to sort out the problem , because the system be entirely dependent on social care provision , the hospice system and ancillary service , include primary care — the thing that make up the NHS . in my area , when an ambulance go to Hull royal infirmary , it may take an hour to get the patient in . that be because patient in the hospital can not be get out of their bed — even though they be ready to leave — and into social care provision . the Bill will make that bad . perhaps funding can be vire over to social care . through the amendment suggest by my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , we be probe the Government and the Minister , who be a decent , honourable man . we be ask they to look at the issue creatively and ensure that the misgiving of those such as the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central be listen to . it be music to my ear to hear a Conservative Member of Parliament finally recognise the connection between the NHS and social care . the right hon . Member will remember that former Prime Minister Boris Johnson stand on the step of 10 Downing Street and promise to fix social care for good . could he let we know why he do not ? the hon . Lady have not be in the House quite as long as I have . I be first elect in 2005 , and in that Parliament I spend a lot of time — mostly in Westminster Hall , as I recall — in debate with then Labour Ministers talk about the importance of have a join - up , coherent approach to the national health service and social care . it be clearly fiendishly difficult . the coalition Government , of which the hon . Lady ' s party be a part , and the Conservatives keep work at it . we change the name of the Department of Health to the Department of Health and Social Care precisely because of that . it be challenging , because social care be deliver through local authority , but the opportunity be there . before the Government get all that wiring and complexity fix — we be work devotedly at that — they could vire funding over to the sector , or exempt from the Bill the sector on which the NHS depend . pour money into the Hull royal infirmary while it be unable to unload the ambulance come in , or get the healthy patient out , be a crazy approach . I be sure that the Minister recognise that . I want to mention the impact on social care . last Friday , I go to Merrywick Hall , a great example of a small , family - run , residential care home . its 31 resident be not all elderly , but they all have learn disability . some of they be elderly , make they doubly disadvantaged . the home charge a basic rate of just £ 699 a week to care for those people , and its staff be stretch . I meet Katie , who run the home , and her husband Carl , who oversee the finance , although the home be own by another . it be quite clear that that they be not run a business in the way that I would recognise as a former businessman ; they be run an institution that be absolutely committed to the welfare of the people in it . between this job tax , which the Minister be foist on we , and the national minimum wage increase , they have to find an extra £ 56 , 000 a year , which be equivalent to the care cost of 1 . 5 resident . that be the reality . that system and those place be vulnerable . if those place go , there will be a massive knock - on effect on the rest of the system . I hope that hon . member from across the House be less interested in the system — although it be our job to worry about it — and much more interested in the people . People can not get much more vulnerable than the elderly who have learn difficulty . when it come to social care and GPs , there be a situation that have be describe to I as Schr ö dinger ' s care . provider be see by the state as be private , yet their service be commission solely by the NHS , which mean that they be catch both dead and alive when it come to NICs . this have happen either by design in the Treasury , or by accident . the answer from the Chancellor , the Prime Minister and the Health Secretary — I expect the Minister to say this — be that funding will be allocate in the usual way . the problem be that that will happen in April , four month away , while decision be be make now . there be potential closure , and certainly redundancie , or decision not to employ . how will that be address ? do my right hon . friend agree that the Minister need to address that , because these institution be listen now , and need to know that answer ? I thank my hon . friend , who be of course a doctor . in this and previous debate , such as Second Reading , it be good to encourage a discursive approach in the Chamber , if we be to be valuable . I hope that we will continue to gather in this Chamber , talk to each other and listen . no one would think less of the Government for make change . I can not speak for those on the Opposition Front Bench , but I would seek to give the Government some political cover if they find a way to ameliorate the impact of this measure on the system — and , more importantly , on the human being on which the NHS rely . in 2021 , the then Leader of the Opposition , now Prime Minister , promise a plan " to ensure that those with the broad shoulder pay their fair share . " — [ Official Report , 8 September 2021 ; Vol . 700 , c . 295 . ] yet all the analysis available to Government Members show that those with the least will pay the high price for this measure . in my constituency , HICA , a large not - for - profit provider of social care home and in - home care — a brilliant organisation that have have the same chief executive for the past five year — be finally get a surplus to invest in its stock , some of which be almost as old as I , and to give its staff something above the national minimum wage . but follow the change in the Budget , it face a bill of £ 3 . 5 million , more than offset any hope of a surplus , which it desperately need in order to invest in its people and stock . the money will be take away from that good social purpose in my local area , and instead will go into the Chancellor ' s mythical black hole — for payment of additional sum almost great than the total income of many pensioner , and for pay rise , for train driver , so that they can pay their union fee ; and so that Labour member can carry on all too rarely mention in the Chamber their sponsorship by people who dictate so much of what they share with we — the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central aside . finally , it be interesting in these debate just how few of the more than 400 Labour Members — they can all cheer on the Government Benches at how many labour mp there be — want to come and defend these measure . the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) speak bravely , but he look a little world - weary . I think he have be go out and about in his constituency , so I be sure that he be hear the same thing as I , but say a little more angrily , because he be responsible for it . I appeal to those member who be not here to seek change . the 2012 Budget by George Osborne , crudely and rudely call the omnishamble Budget , include a measure to bring in 20 % vat on static caravan . the Treasury civil servant love dust these thing off — they hate an anomaly more than anything . those be the very caravan that ordinary work people use to holiday on the coast . I do not , alongside colleague , run my campaign in the press ; instead , I build up support from Conservative Members and coalition colleague , who realise how damaging that measure would be for job in their area , the holiday opportunity of ordinary work people , and an industry that be 95 % manufacture in the UK . People tell I , " Change be impossible — this have be announce in a Budget . you can not overturn a Budget measure . " you and I , Madam Chair , have be here some time , know that that be not true . politic be a matter of arithmetic . if Labour member can build enough support among colleague on the Government Benches — they do not need to do it publicly , and they do not need to tell we about it — they have every chance of change this . the Whips and Ministers start get spook when 15 member turn up . if Labour member can get 30 or 40 , they can make a change . they should not feel powerless . the Government could make change . they could move £ 3 billion or £ 4 billion over to social care , hospice , GPs and the like . they could agree to our amendment . they could come up with some other solution . they have the power to do it . stubbornness and perhaps a certain arrogance have creep in because of the size of their majority . Government Members , who go out to talk to their constituent more frequently than Ministers , will be in a great position to tell Ministers that up with this they will not put . the right hon . Gentleman be encourage the Government to ameliorate their position . do he agree that there be one very clear way of do that today ? member on all Benches could vote for Liberal Democrat amendment 1 , which exclude all gps , dentist , hospice and charitable health and social care provider from this NICs increase . liberal Democrats do remarkably well at the election , pretty much on the back of sewage . between water stunt and sewage , a record number of liberal Democrats have be return . I be pleased to say that the conservative party remain his Majesty ' s opposition . therefore , I urge the hon . Lady and her colleague to support amendment 13 to 18 , and new clause 1 . she will find that exactly the same be achieve , but with the backing of his Majesty ' s Opposition . I start by thank the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury for all his work on the Bill . the burden of tax have fall disproportionately on the shoulder of work people for too long . family across the country and in my constituency , who be already battle the cost of living crisis , have be leave to carry the weight , while large business and the wealthy have be let off far too lightly . that can not continue . this Labour Government believe in a fairer tax system , where large business and the rich pay a little more in tax to help fund our NHS and our public service , which work people rely on . that be the right and fair choice . the Tory record on investment in our NHS be terrible . I can see that in my constituency . although Princess Alexandra hospital be on the list of 40 new hospital propose by the previous Government , when we come to power it turn out that the money for it be not there . I thank the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care for allow I to constantly follow he around the Palace and lobby he on that point . the decision on employer national insurance be difficult , but it be the right choice . wake up on 5 July , we know that we would have to take these difficult decision , but in the long run we really will see the difference . be tough now can bring about real change in the future . it have not go unnoticed that the small business and charity that form the backbone of our local economy need to be protect and value . here be a few thing the Labour Government be do to achieve just that . we have increase the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 and expand it to all eligible employer . as a result , we will see two remarkable thing : the OBR expect 250 , 000 employer to benefit from these change and an additional 820 , 000 employer to see no change at all . we be seek to strike a balance . my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) mention Small Business Saturday . I recently visit a wonderful local charity call Stort Valley Gifting , a brilliant local business that source local produce and make up hamper . I have to declare an interest at this point , because that be where I be do my Christmas shopping this year , but I would add that my predecessor , Robert Halfon , do the same thing . Labour also recognise the vital role play by public sector employee in our school , hospital and council . that be why we have commit to provide support for additional employer NIC cost , ensure that our public service remain resilient and well - resource not just for today , but for future generation . we can protect work people while make the wealthy contribute their fair share , so that we all contribute our fair share . everyone from every walk of life be include as these decision be be debate and make . we can choose to invest in our NHS and our public service ; we can choose growth and fairness ; we can choose to rebuild the future for generation to come , instead of the instability that have hold our country back for too long . if we want the benefit of this Budget , we must make the hard decision to get there . I rise to speak to defend Scotland ' s NHS , include our GPs , hospice , care home and nursery , from this Labour Government ' s national insurance tax hike , as well as to protect the charity and high education sector . I be proud of the amendment the SNP have table to the Bill to protect these vital service from the increase in national insurance contribution put forward by the Government . the fear be genuine and escalate over the job cut and service reduction that will be the inevitable and plain and simple consequence of this fiscal madness . we in the SNP have consistently highlight the brutal impact that Labour ' s tax rise will have on GPs , charity , care home and other sector , with organisation warn that deep cut will be make to the service they provide — vital service that be no less essential to community and individual than secondary care service just because they be receive in the community or from a charity . that be why we have table amendment 4 , 5 , 6 and 26 in my name and the name of SNP colleague . on high education , the University of Edinburgh be last month report to have open a redundancy process for staff as a result of Labour ' s tax hike , and Universities Scotland be warn of a potential £ 45 million tax burden for scottish university . yet again , we see key sector of the scottish economy hammer by a London Treasury out of touch , out of idea and , if this go through , demonstrably out of control . high education , agriculture , and oil and gas be all demonstrably large element of the scottish economy than they be of the English or UK economy . this Government , with nic and other specific tax increase or allowance removal , be hammer particularly important element of the scottish economy . as usual , what England want Scotland get . the Labour Government ' s national insurance increase will be a disaster for Scotland ' s healthcare provider , voluntary organisation , nursery , university and college , but who on the Labour Benches have come along to speak up for those organisation in Scotland ? nobody . not one Labour Scottish MP make a speech to protect Scotland ' s interest . but labour mps from Scotland be there to nod through and vote through the cut to the winter fuel payment , freeze Scotland ' s pensioner ; labour ' s bedroom tax , entrench poverty in Scotland ; labour ' s two - child limit , punish the poor in Scotland ; tax Scotland ' s oil and gas sector to the brink of extinction ; attack scottish agriculture ; and gouge Scotch whisky . they be all here to make sure that that happen and to speak to that , so I will leave the people of Scotland to draw their own conclusion about this particular lack of activity from Scottish Labour MPs . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . when do the SNP do an about - turn on scottish oil and gas ? as far as I can tell , it seem as oppose to its continuation as the Labour party be now in government . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . I refer he to Hansard from the previous Parliament . the comment I have just make be entirely consistent with the comment I make in the last parliamentary term . with each day that pass , we learn more about the damage labour ' s Budget will inflict on household bill , business and charity , yet despite those warning the Labour Government be determined not to listen and be plough ahead with this devastating proposal . the SNP will always stand up and protect scottish job , scottish service and Scotland ' s people . that be reflect in John Swinney ' s budget — a balanced budget in the interest of the people of Scotland and the business of Scotland . that be the SNP way . we have do it this year and we have do it in every one of the 17 previous year we have be in the Scottish Government . do the UK Government understand how commission service work ? we have hear that quite a lot this afternoon and it be become increasingly clear that , at well , they have a sketchy understanding of why vital service be provide by non - statutory service provider . what be go to happen when this measure unwind into the real economy be that charity , GP surgery , hospice and other vital element of healthcare provision will not have reserve . they be already operate at the very margin of financial sustainability , so when the sum do not add up , they will have two choice . they will approach the commission authority that have commission their service to ask for an uplift in their fee . the answer will be no , because the money be not there . alternatively , they will withdraw their service or draw down their service . either way , it will be enormously challenging and extremely damaging for some of the most vulnerable in our society . the hon . Gentleman be make a powerful speech . the Labour party have say in the main that it be the right choice to increase nic . like Scotland , Northern Ireland ' s health and social care will be hard hit . the Northern Ireland child ' s hospice estimate that half a million pound will be need to cope with the NICs increase . this be a hospice that provide care for the most vulnerable in our society : child with cancer and child with life - limit condition . do he agree that the measure will see the end of these excellent service , which be much need in our community ? I agree entirely with the hon . member . there be no road back from that . the difficulty that I implore the Government to pay attention to be that when the damage that will be inflict by this measure be inflict by this measure , they can not just say , " oops , we get that wrong . if you wouldn ' t mind all come back and start deliver these commission service , we ' ll admit we get it wrong . " when it ' s go , it ' s go . it be not acceptable that the Government be play fast and loose with the safety net that exist in our community and our society to catch the most vulnerable people and prevent absolute chaos . that be exactly what the Government be do . however , the Government should not take the hon . Lady ' s word for it , or mine . we can listen to people who be at the coalface . this be primary evidence from the Scottish Huntington ' s Association : " the entire charity sector be increasingly burden by climb cost , funding issue , recruitment and retention challenge and an increase demand for service . all too many have have to close their door , with more expect to follow . additional burden be impose by government at this juncture " , the association say , be deeply unhelpful . " come just week after the prime minister announce a ' new partnership that can harness civil society ' s full potential ' this must surely be an unfortunate oversight , and one that simply can not be allow to stand give the scale of its implication for the not - for - profit sector and the many thousand of people who depend upon it in the absence of alternative statutory service . " it be not just the association that take that view . turn Point Scotland have advise that this measure alone will add £ 1 . 1 million to its cost overnight , and it come at a time of a pressured environment , when many of its service be already run at a deficit . that be true of the voluntary sector , but also of the nursery and college sector . on healthcare , I wonder whether the Government understand the concept of whole - system cost . as I and many member have say , when charity fold , as many of they will , the service that they be provide will no long be there . who will then provide that care ? it will be the provider of last resort , secondary care . People will present themselves at hospital , where there will be no room . it will be chaotic , but in a purely Treasury and fiscal sense , it will be an extremely expensive form of chaos , for which the Government , through the whole - system paradigm , will need to pick up the cost . I be not certain that the Minister have be properly brief by his Treasury official on what the risk assessment actually say about the human and financial cost of the change when this head south . this be what happen when the Chancellor treat the real economy as her own personal political piggy - bank . it will not be possible to fix this once it have be break . I have some sympathy for the Minister in one respect . we have hear , and I will not repeat , the headline figure — the gross quantum that the Government expect to generate by lower the threshold and increase the rate of employer national insurance . by the time everyone who be in a position to adjust their business and employment characteristic to accommodate it have do so , by the time the Government have compensate element of the public sector and by the time the economy have contract to accommodate that , we be already down from £ 25 - something billion to £ 10 billion - odd . that be a lot of pain to accept to gain £ 10 billion . if the Government be to exclude or make provision for hospice , nursery , the voluntary sector more generally and university , that £ 10 billion would be reduce to an embarrassingly small figure , so they be stick between a rock and a hard place . I nevertheless encourage they to have the courage of their conviction and put the interest of the people of these island first , rather than the political expediency of career headlong towards a cliff edge that be as plain as the nose on the end of your face and jump over it anyway in order to save face — because the Government will not save face . there be no escape from the corner they have paint themselves into . they can either u - turn and incur the political cost , which I would recommend , give that they have just come through the door — they should be at the height of their political power , but if this be the height of their political power , goodness I ! — or they can carry on regardless , and pick up the piece of all the chaos that will be wreak across the sector . this incompetence , for it be incompetence , do not start when the Government walk through the door of Nos . 10 and 11 Downing Street . it start back in the election campaign , when they proscribe the use of the single big lever in the Treasury ' s toolkit to get additional funding . they say that they would not increase income tax on ordinary work people , although with these measure they will take away financial opportunity and , actually , people ' s money through payroll change anyway . it be smoke and mirror . however , by paint themselves into that corner on income tax , they have create a situation in which they have to make the most damaging tax intervention possible , which be entirely contrary to their stated ambition of generate growth . quite a lot of Labour Members have say , " it ' s all very well listen to the opposition , but what would you do ? " I will give they two really easy thing that the Government could have do . if they have mirror the income tax threshold that the Scottish Government have introduce , they would have generate £ 19 billion . that would not have have a single impediment on the real economy , would not have choke off growth and would not have put primary care on the precipice . they could have do that . or , if they have think that they could get by on less than £ 19 billion — they will have to , because they will raise less than £ 10 billion from this measure — they could have just reverse the previous Government ' s two cut to employee ' s national insurance . judge by the arithmetic in this place , the Conservatives do not exactly get a brilliant political return on cut employee ' s national insurance twice in two quarter of one financial year . the Government could have reverse those cut , which would have net £ 10 billion — roughly where they be now , on aggregate — but no , they do not want to do that and they refuse to do so . if the Minister win today , everybody else lose . I hope he have a great story to tell when he get to his foot to sum up . many member in this Chamber have paint a very bleak picture of what will happen , particularly in social care , if this go ahead today . the crux of today ' s debate be an interplay between our objective and mission as a new Government and our inheritance from the previous Government . it be about the choice we have take to achieve our objective while mitigate and navigate the dire inheritance we receive . first , our objective be clearly state to the british people in our manifesto in July : " to begin the work of national renewal . a rebuilding of our country , so that it once again serve the interest of work people . " secondly , the previous Administration bequeath we the following : the high tax burden on work people since the second world war ; an economy build on weak foundation , with little or no industrial strategy , low productivity , low investment and low strategic vision ; public service on their knee , have be cut to the core ; staff undervalue and underpaid , but overburden due to the previous Government ' s failure ; and after the cut and chaos come that cut - and - run election , with unfunded spending commitment and , yes , a £ 22 billion black hole . I turn to the choice that we face . the people resoundingly reject a return to the chaos and cut of the previous Administration . we reject make further cut to service when the people who vote in the election need those service so desperately . we reject insult people by increase taxis on their pay packet after those dark , high - tax Tory day . we reject increase borrowing ; we be keep it under control with our stability rule in order to bring the current Budget into balance , so we will not borrow to fund day - to - day spending . therefore , we have have to take difficult choice . some group will have to contribute more , which be never popular . we be ask employer , not employee , to contribute more , but we fully recognise the need to protect the small business and charity . we have more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 and expand it to all eligible employer , include charity . the OBR expect 250 , 000 employer to gain and an additional 820 , 000 to see no change . the change that we be debate today should be see in the context of the overall Budget — a Budget of huge , long - term investment in our economy ; set the right environment for well job , more opportunity for business , strong public service and a more confident , optimistic future , particularly for our young people . the last Government be very good at some thing : kick the can down the road , find carpet and sweep thing underneath they , and make promise while dress in the emperor ' s new clothe . this opposition be good at cry crocodile tear about the change we be make , and want to have their cake and eat it . they seem to want all the benefit , but they do not want to say how they would pay for they . that be not this Government ' s approach . what be be propose today be reasonable and proportionate ; it be necessary , give our objective and the inheritance we receive ; and it be part of a transformational Budget that will put the economy , our public service and our country on a proper footing , for a fair and more prosperous future for the people of our country . I refer the Committee to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as an optometrist . I will speak to amendment 7 , which stand in my name , which call for GP surgery , pharmacist , the often forget profession of optometrist and other health professional to be exclude from the national insurance rise , along with charity with few than 50 employee . we have see the over - strain and burden on our GP service be take over fantastically by the Pharmacy First programme . however , the National Pharmacy Association have vote for action , which could include reduce opening hour , in response to the increase cost that will be cause by the national insurance hike . this hike be go to cost each pharmacy business an estimate £ 12 , 000 , which be absolutely unattainable for many of the pharmacist I speak to . my constituency of Leicester South have the second - high ratio of patient to gps , with 3 , 260 patient to a single gp . this already overburden service be go to be hit even far with this rise in national insurance , with the Royal College of General Practitioners warn in November that the national insurance hike risk GP practice make redundancy or even closure . nearly 450 gp practice have already close or merge since 2018 , accord to a survey by the GPs ' journal Pulse . this be simply an untenable state for the national health service and healthcare worker . pharmacist , dentist and optometrist employ their professional staff . many people I have speak to be now go to have to remove employment and bring in locum . I would like to ask the Minister whether any impact assessment have be make on the loss of earning for employ staff if locum staff be bring in . primary care service be the bedrock of the NHS and many be already on a financial tightrope due to year of austerity . the national insurance hike will see many community GPs , pharmacist and optical health facility reduce service or completely close down . GPs such as those in the Twyford surgery in my constituency have make it clear that the increase in employer national insurance contribution will impact their budget . they urgently need clarity to determine what they can provide for my constituent and whether they will be force to make redundancy . do the hon . Member agree that the Government need to provide certainty on whether GPs will receive funding for national insurance increase , and not abandon they , as they be abandon by the previous Government ? I totally agree with the hon . member that GP service be already on their knee , and this be go to far increase their despondency . it will give they no confidence whatsoever . a second issue relate to our charity . I do not think there will be a single member in this House who have not pose in front of a charity for a photo for their social medium or for the work that they do . in my short time in this profession I have see that this country be virtually run by charity , but every single year they have to jump through fire hoop just to make end meet . they have to prove their worth and look for funding every year , live virtually hand to mouth . this will be the final nail in the coffin for many charity that be do vital work for our community . there be so many that I could mention , but I will mention just one . Jasmine House be a charity in my constituency that provide vital support for woman who have be victim of sexual violence . we already know the dire state of the judicial system , with woman who have be rape have to wait up to five year or sometimes seven year for justice . this home , which provide much - need psychological and emotional support , already have a two - year waiting list . this rise in national insurance will completely destroy this charity and many more like it across the country , which be why I urge the Government to rethink this disastrous policy and accept my amendment . it be a pleasure to speak once more on this critically important Bill , after an excellent debate on Second reading several week ago . I do not wish to rehearse the entire debate on these national insurance change , but I will raise a few point about the Bill and why it be necessary . as we have discuss at some length , this Government inherit public finance that be in a parlous state and public service that be not deliver what resident in Dartford and across the UK need . yet , from their contribution today and on Second Reading , I do not think that Conservative Members have really accept that legacy . in the five stage of grief , they be still in denial . when the previous Government leave office — it be painful to repeat these statistic — nhs waiting list be at 7 . 6 million , with 300 , 000 people wait long than a year for treatment . those waiting list be already grow before the pandemic , with the number of people refer but wait for treatment double between 2010 and 2019 . on crime and community safety , neighbourhood policing be decimate and pcso number be halve , and the number of arrest have halve since 2010 , include sharp drop for theft . perhaps most concerningly , we face a real crisis in our prison . the National Audit Office recently confirm : " the current crisis in the prison estate be a consequence of " — the previous Government ' s — " failure to align criminal justice policy with funding for the prison estate , lead to reactive solution which represent poor value for money . " that be as close as the National Audit Office ever get to say , " you waste money . " the previous Government also spend a whopping £ 715 million on their Rwanda gimmick over two year , in exchange for a sum total of four voluntary departure . that be the legacy of the conservative party , yet Conservative Members still refuse to acknowledge their mistake . they vote against every measure , include the national insurance change to raise crucial funding to fix the problem they leave behind , without ever say which investment in public service they would scrap . in a long and , at time , entertain speech , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) rehearse the great hit of the previous Government , in which the omnishamble Budget seem to feature very strongly , but his speech be fatally hole below the waterline by his inability to answer one simple question from the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) : " what would you do instead ? " we hear a lot of flannel about train driver , but that be basically it . I talk about the need for fiscal discipline , one element of which be take at least £ 12 billion of saving out of the benefit system , because we can not continue with more and more of we out of work and out of the workforce . most importantly , I also say that we have to grow the economy first , because that be the only way to sustain it . this Budget have the opposite effect , as the OBR have lay out . order . I remind member that this debate in Committee be about national insurance contribution . I thank the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness for his comment . he praise the Conservative party as the most successful party in western democracy because it always take a pragmatic and hard - headed view of matter such as the public finance , but I be afraid that he have just reveal why it be no long in government . none of what he say add up . the £ 12 billion of welfare saving that we be repeatedly promise when he be in government be never realise , and none of what his party have propose since make those number any more likely to be achieve . this week , the Guardian report on a poll by the University of Bristol of 5 , 000 voter — a large sample — that find that few than a quarter of respondent think that the change to tax announce at the Budget be " not necessary " . nearly 50 % of people poll think the change be " necessary " . so the british people , show admirable common sense , understand the step that need to be take to address our country ' s problem . base on that polling , the kind thing to say about the conservative party be that it be out of touch . indeed , we learn this week that the Leader of the Opposition be apparently toy with the idea of flat tax , which would be a big gift to the already wealthy . accord to estimate from the Tax Policy Associates , such a change would mean average earner would pay £ 1 , 200 a year more and those earn above £ 200 , 000 would pay £ 30 , 000 a year less . order . the hon . Gentleman be make an interesting speech , but I remind hon . member that in order to be in scope for the debate , the majority of their remark need to address the issue in front of we , which be national insurance contribution . thank you for your advice , Madam Chair . in closing , in raise national insurance , the Labour Government be take the tough choice to fix our public finance . as I say at Second Reading , the Bill be a crucial part of our plan to fix the foundation of this country . it provide a major part of the funding need to fix our public service after 14 year of decline under the previous Government . when we talk about national insurance , it be easy to forget that it be only part of the tax burden place upon employer . however , within the matrix of tax , the reach of national insurance that have be deliver by the change be truly shocking , particularly because of the reduction of the threshold to £ 5 , 000 . I suspect that will mean that there be not a single person who do a part - time job whose employer will not now be pay 15 % national insurance . before we even come to the viability of the business they work for , that make the viability of that job questionable . to reduce the threshold by that amount be the most punitive part of the measure . it be not even temper , as it could have be , by a phase reduction , so rather than pay 15 % , someone could pay a low amount , such as 5 % , if the threshold be reduce to £ 5 , 000 . the measure be excessively punitive and will hit many small business in everyone ' s constituency , include mine . I think of small business throughout North Antrim . they employ six , seven , eight or 10 people , and may stretch to take on an extra worker , but they will not be stretch like that any more . they will be stretch the other way , because the consequence of the measure be put they over the edge in term of what be affordable . I be talk not just about small business but about a vast swathe of a critical sector that keep our society in operation . our community and voluntary sector will be among those most cruelly affect and particularly those who be often do the job of Government , deliver service in our community . they will bear it unabated , without any assistance such as the assistance that the public sector will have . I be interested to receive and to read the report from the Northern Ireland Council for Voluntary Action , which be clear that whereas public sector organisation will have their budget on this aspect reimburse , voluntary and community sector organisation will not have the same protection . they will have to absorb the budget increase . yet , as I have say , many of those in the voluntary and community sector deliver service on behalf of Government . the public sector therefore get matter ameliorate , but those that deliver service for Government in the voluntary and community sector will not . that will have an effect not just on those organisation , but on the service they deliver and , therefore , on all our constituent to whom those service be deliver . when we ally 15 % on national insurance with the increase in the living wage , we have a double whammy . the two together be the very thing that will produce a negative outcome . the hospitality sector in my constituency , as a sector that already run on relatively small margin and employ a lot of part - time people who will now fall within the ambit of employer ' national insurance , have draw attention to the fact that the increase , along with the living wage increase , will impose a huge burden . indeed , the sector ' s organisation have suggest that the living wage and national insurance increase will add £ 2 , 500 a year for every employee . what business , in current circumstance , can simply shrug that off and carry on unaffected ? there will be very few , indeed . the consequence will be substantial and will affect many small business , be it the butcher on our high street , our community service provide by voluntary organisation , our doctor or our dentist . the latter be already under huge pressure and many be give up national health service provision . why ? it be because they can not make end meet . then , Government come along and put this burden upon they . I therefore say to the Government that , yes , they have the number that mean they can close their ear to all of this . they can impose this if that be their will , but in impose it they will do irreparable damage to those who they say they care about . this be a wake - up moment . if the Government truly care about ordinary people , whose job will be lose and who will be affect by this measure , and about ordinary business , which be not roll in riches but make end meet , they need to find a way to readdress this issue and to bring back some viability , go forward , for those business . like many on the Government Benches , I have spend many year of my career in business — in my case , as a lawyer . I have work with some of the large company invest in the United Kingdom and some of the small company in the country , such as charity , third sector organisation and other . what they value most of all be economic stability . what they do not value be huge increase in interest rate overnight and rampant inflation . I understand how important it be to investor to ensure that the public finance be manage in a prudent way , which embrace and face up to the reality . that be the foundation of the Budget and of our approach to the difficult decision the Chancellor of the Exchequer have take on national insurance contribution . a number of the party on the Opposition Benches , and the Conservatives in particular , criticise , but they break Britain ' s economy and we be leave to clean up their mess . there be nothing clever or great about promise that hospital after hospital will be build and not have the fund to cover that . that be the politic of the Santa Claus letter . the Budget of my right hon . friend , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , deliver on our commitment to the electorate . it put an end to non - dom tax status and get rid of a vat exemption on private school fee to fund state school , such as those in Glasgow . the national insurance contribution be an important part of that financial package . the Budget deliver a fair , more sustainable tax system . under the previous Government , the tax burden be place mainly on the shoulder of work people . we hear from the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) , who represent a beautiful constituency , that that be precisely what SNP member be fan of — increase income tax and national insurance on work people . we have see that in Scotland time and again . the tax burden that work people face be absolutely enormous . if a person work in Newcastle and want to move to Edinburgh , they will have to pay more tax to work in the NHS in Edinburgh . if that be support Scotland , who know ? we be deliver on our promise not to raise taxis on work people . will the hon . member give way ? I wish to make some progress if I may ; I have be wait a long time to speak . our plan will not see additional taxis come out of a worker ' s payslip . we be support small business by double the employment allowance before company and charity have to pay national insurance , which will protect hundred of thousand of employer from pay any national insurance at all . accord to the OBR , change to the employment allowance will see 250 , 000 employer across the UK gain from these change , while an additional 820 , 000 or so will see no change . this mean that around half of all business that be liable for national insurance will pay the same or less than they be previously , while , set against that , many business and charity in Scotland and Glasgow will be protect against the increase . this strike a fair balance . as a Scottish MP , I must turn to Scotland . the context of this national insurance rise be that around one in six scot be on an NHS waiting list . on a Friday evening a few week ago , I be contact by a constituent whose wife of 40 year be in hospital . he be petrify and devastate because there be no bed available for his wife after she have suffer a stroke . that be the context of this national insurance rise . it be correct to raise taxis to invest in our health service , and that be the beginning and the end of it . in Glasgow , this year , 172 teaching post have be remove . that be the context of this national insurance rise . our Budget deliver the large settlement for the Scottish Government in the history of devolution — £ 4 . 9 billion of additional funding and further funding to cover the national insurance rise over the next two year . this be a UK Government deliver for Scotland and give the SNP the tool to clean up its mess . the change to national insurance be critical to this additional funding , which will benefit the people , charity and business of Glasgow and Scotland . despite this extra funding , the SNP repeatedly criticise our Budget and our management of the public finance . this be — as some say of Christmas dinner — somewhat rich come from the Scottish National party . after almost 18 year of the SNP Government in Holyrood , public finance be in a catastrophic mess . let I provide a simple example : the replacement Arran ferry be hundred of million of pound over budget and year late , make life miserable for people try to get from Arran and damage the tourist industry . it would be unwise to choose Rod Stewart ' s song " we be sail " for the SNP Christmas karaoke , because no one be sail under the Scottish Government ' s appal management of the economy . the SNP have criticise our choice . this Government have not be in power for even six month . the Tories be in power for 14 year and the SNP have be in power for 17 and a half year . on any view , the criticism of our Budget after nearly six month defy logic , but that defiance of logic do not end there . the Conservatives criticise our choice , but they do not say what they would do instead . they may have a shopping list of additional spending commitment , but they simply do not explain how they will tax or fundraise those spending commitment . this be not serious . we be have to make difficult decision . the Government be ask employer to contribute more . that will enable investment in public service , which be good for employer . we be be straightforward about the choice regard the public finance , spending , tax and national insurance . I say to Opposition Members that cakeism be for Christmas . it be not an approach for serious Government or serious opposition . the job of a serious Government be to make serious choice to progress the country — choice that will allow we to invest in our public service . the Government know that if they raise national insurance contribution in the Budget , it would be devastating for health and social care . that be why they exempt the NHS ; they know that it would be put under acute pressure by the Budget . they do not exempt some of the key partner that deliver health and social care in this country , that they will rely on to move people out of acute care and into community care , and that they will rely on to achieve prevention rather than cure — all thing that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say he want to do . they will rely on GPs , pharmacy , hospice and social care , yet the national insurance contribution fall on they . hospice will pay £ 260 million . accord to Community Pharmacy England , pharmacist will pay £ 50 million . social care will pay £ 2 . 4 billion . all that money will move across to the NHS , which be largely slant towards acute provision . that run completely counter to what the Health Secretary say he want to do . his answer to those GPs , pharmacist and hospice who be deeply concerned be , " we will deal with this in due course . " " due course " mean " we have absolutely no idea and no plan at all . " he and , indeed , Treasury spokespeople say that they will deal with hospice in the usual contracting way . the contract of hospice like Mountbatten just outside my constituency on the Isle of Wight be with the integrate care board . they do not have a contract with Government , the Department of Health and Social Care or an NHS employer . under those contract , there be no clause for uplift of salary , or for recover the increase cost of national insurance contribution . say , " we will deal with it in the usual way through contracting " show either a complete lack of understanding of how hospice service contract with the public sector , or a complete indifference , disregard and , frankly , contempt . as for other sector of the economy , national insurance increase hit those who employ people — sector that rely on large workforce , such as hospitality and tourism , which my constituency on the Isle of Wight be heavily reliant on . this be a tax on work people , because it disincentivise employ work people , and even the OBR say that 60 % of the impact will likely be feel by those on low wage . it also say that growth will peak next year at 2 % — in fact , that be the Treasury ' s own figure — and then it will fall away for the rest of the decade . this be not a growth Budget . as for those work in hospitality and tourism , many of whom be seasonal or part - time worker , they will be bring into the national insurance tax regime for the first time . brilliant business in my constituency , such as the Yarbridge Inn in Brading , the Spyglass Inn in Ventnor , and all the independent hotel in Sandown , Shanklin and elsewhere , will be squeeze far , right at the time when they be try to recover from covid , and when our tourism and hospitality sector be compete with cheap , overseas holiday . the sector be already heavily tax compare with hospitality and tourism elsewhere in Europe . this be an unpatriotic tax , because it disincentivise the visitor economy and tourism in Britain . I urge the Government to go back and look again at provide relief to hospitality and tourism , as well as to health and social care . as my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) say , there be no shame in the Government recognise their mistake in both sector , and come up with genuine relief for health and social care and for tourism and hospitality . I very much welcome the chance to speak in this debate on an important topic . I be sure that member on both side of the House will be glad to know that this be the first speech of mine that be not subject to a time limit , so I can speak for as long as humanly possible on the intricacy and joy of national insurance contribution , and I hope to stay on the topic at hand . not have a time limit also give I the chance to make a great parliamentary speech on this important topic . we all know what good speech look like ; they be not a simple list of point reel off in order , but may include great rhetorical flourish , the use of the english language at its fine , and nuanced argument . but , Madam Chair , I will make six simple point , in list form , in favour of the national insurance change before we . I have miss my opportunity , but maybe I will make such a speech in future . these change be incredibly important . I urge Opposition Members to vote with the Government against the amendment , so that we can get the change that we need for our country . the first reason that I think the change be important and sensible be that they will mean that the Labour Government stick to the pledge we make in the election campaign not to increase taxis on work people . it be important that we rebuild trust in our politic , which have fall to a record low . I know that this be contest in the House , but labour be clear that these specific change protect work people ' s payslip and mean that we do not have to make the change that other have suggest for income tax and value add tax . trust in our politic be very important . the second reason I encourage member to vote with the Government tonight be that the change provide vital funding for our public service . I be not too sure whether Conservative Members — I would be interested to hear from they — support the additional funding for public service . I say this in the previous debate on the Bill , so I be a bit like a broken record , but if they do support additional funding , would they raise it through additional borrowing or different tax rise ? rise — before I have even hear the hon . member ' s request to intervene , I happily give way . I can offer the hon . member a solution for grow the tax base : grow the economy . that be by far the good way of increase the tax take . this Budget do not grow the economy — that be the problem . I will come to growth , which be the sixth point on my very exciting list , but I will just say that this Budget will see growth increase in the short term and stay broadly unchanged over the forecast period , and the OBR say that the increase public sector investment that we be make will lead to a small but significant increase in growth in the long run . I wholeheartedly agree with the hon . member that we need economic growth in this country . it be important that we provide the revenue to fund our public service . I will not repeat the convincing and powerful argument make by Labour Members about the broken nature of our public service . in Chipping Barnet , policing be really struggle , and 100 , 000 people in the Royal Free London NHS foundation trust area be wait to be see by our local hospital . we need to provide funding in a sustainable way . the third point on my exciting list of reason to vote with the Government tonight be that these change provide stability . we all know that we need economic stability — it be the foundation of the economic growth that the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) just make an important intervention on . I believe that the Chancellor and the Treasury team make the right decision , even though it be difficult , to raise revenue to fund our public service and put our public finance on an even keel once again . this change mean that over the come year , we will get to a place where , for the first time in a very long time , day - to - day spending will be match by the tax revenue that be come in . I think all member of the House will agree that that be important , but I know that Labour Members prioritise that stability , which have be lack for too long . fourthly , these change cut taxis for the small business — a quarter of a million business , as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) make clear . again , I be interested to know whether Opposition Members support or oppose the cut in taxis for the small business that this Budget provide . fifthly , we have prioritise sound public finance , which be a big change from recent year . the mini - Budget that be pass by Liz Truss contribute to push up interest rate in our economy , make thing more difficult for family in my constituency and across the country . it also add not £ 6 billion , or even £ 16 billion , but £ 60 billion to Government borrowing cost each year — member can see those number in the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s report . that and other failure to manage our public finance over the past 14 year have drive up our public debt from £ 1 trillion , as it be in 2010 , to £ 2 . 8 trillion , which I believe be the late estimate from the Office for National Statistics . if we support additional spending on our public service , it be vital that we also make the right decision to raise revenue that will cover that increase in public spending , so that we can have the sound public finance that the public want from this Government . can the hon . member explain why his government be choose to raise taxis on GPs ' surgery , which do not crash the economy or the public finance , rather than opt to raise the revenue from the big bank , as the liberal Democrats suggest ? we have make change to a whole range of taxis in the Budget , and it be important to note that the scale of revenue that the Liberal Democrat party be talk about would not cover the additional funding that we be provide — £ 20 billion for our health service and additional funding for a whole range of public service . I understand that in the come week , the Health Secretary will come forward with more detail on many of the vital service that member have mention today . I must put on record that I very much enjoy meet GPs in my constituency over recent week . they raise a whole range of issue with I , include the big challenge they have face over the past 14 year in get the support and funding that they need . I hope and trust that in the come week and month , this Government will put that right . I be sure that the hon . member for Isle of Wight East will enjoy my final point . my sixth reason for vote for this Bill , rather than for the mistaken and erroneous amendment that have be table , be that the change we have put forward in this Budget , include on national insurance , will pave the way for high growth and high living standard . as in all good speech , this last point bring together some of the other point make — so this may not have be just a boring list . through ensure economic stability and fund our public service properly , we will make sure that people get the health service that they need , so that they be not struggle with ill health that drive they to economic inactivity and push they away from the job market . we will make sure that people feel secure on their street , and that business feel safe , rather than struggle with shoplifting , which have become all too rife . those be the change that this Budget and the measure in this Bill provide . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way , particularly on the subject of growth . he , like I , be an avid reader of the Labour party manifesto , so he know that sustain economic growth be the first mission of this Government . I think we all agree on the point that sustain economic growth be a really good thing , so could he simply tell we whether he think these national insurance change be pro - growth or anti - growth ? it be a very simple question . I thank the hon . member kindly for his intervention . I be not sure whether all member know this , but the Labour party chair have appoint I as the growth mission champion , so I be very much in favour of economic growth . we can see the impact of the change in the round at the Budget , lead to high growth in the short term and further growth in the long run , which be very important . without the change in this Bill and in the Budget as a whole , we will not be able to turn the page on the low growth we have experience as a country over the last 14 year . productivity growth since the financial crisis have be at just 0 . 2 % , which be why we have the long squeeze on wage since Napoleon be make his way around Europe on the conservative party ' s watch . we need to turn that around and make sure that we provide the foundation of stability , fund our public service and , yes , support some of the very small business with these change , so that we can get the economic growth that member on all side , include growth champion , would very much like to see in the year ahead . I have to start by disappoint the hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , in that I rise to support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) . I will speak about my deep concern about the propose national insurance change because of the real - world impact they will have business , GP surgery , community organisation and vital care service in my constituency of Lewes . while I recognise the fiscal pressure , which have be mention by a lot of member , I ask that we fully consider how these change will affect those work tirelessly to keep our community vibrant , secure and healthy . gp surgery be the frontline of the NHS . a local gp practice in my constituency have be in touch with I just today to describe its shock at discover that it will be pay at least £ 60 , 000 more a year under these change . gp practice provide vital healthcare service to our local population and in do so be under ever - increase pressure . yet under the new proposal , GP practice be treat as if they be private business capable of absorb significant cost increase . the reality be , of course , quite different . every additional £ 1 spend on national insurance be £ 1 that be not spend on patient care , staffing or critical medical equipment . for practice already operate under immense strain , this extra burden could be the tipping point that push they towards unsustainable financial territory . when cutback occur , it be our community that will lose vital healthcare access , and the NHS , which be already stretch , will be leave struggle even more . we must also acknowledge that our social care provider , include hospice such as St Peter and St James hospice , which look after my constituent so well — I visit it recently — be catch between rise wage , fix local authority fee and high national insurance . they can not pass on these cost without threaten their very viability . if care provider close or scale back , the most vulnerable in our community will suffer , and so will our healthcare system as hospital stay lengthen and a & E attendance rise . in other word , it will drive up cost for the NHS , make the system less efficient and less humane . it be particularly gall that NHS employer be set to be compensate for the change while there be no equivalent commitment for the social care sector . separate social care reform from NHS support will not only hurt vulnerable people today , but make it impossible to achieve strategic priority for the health service tomorrow . we must also consider community organisation . take the Sussex Community Development Association in my constituency . it be a local organisation that reinvest every penny of surplus into essential service such as youth work , emergency food provision and childcare for deprive community in my constituency . it be already contend with increase wage cost , and it now face an estimate additional £ 70 , 000 per year due to the national insurance rise . because of its size , it do not qualify for allowance that might soften the blow . this facility be invest in to deliver Sure Start service under a previous Labour Government , and it be now consider cut to essential service thank to this one . it now face a desperate scramble for fund at a time when its service have never be more crucial . the rise , couple with the increase to the national living wage and the minimum wage , will hit the early education and childcare sector particularly hard . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for childcare and early education , I must make the Committee aware of how dire the situation be . an average nursery will face additional staffing cost of nearly £ 40 , 000 a year due to the increase . that be because staffing cost account for 75 % of nursery ' run cost , compare with just 30 % for the average restaurant . if Government funding rate do not cover the gap , parent will face high fee , potentially leave they to reduce their work hour or to leave the workforce altogether . the situation be exacerbate by the fact that private nursery deliver government - fund hour may not be eligible for employment allowance . that mean that they may not receive the intend financial support from the Government . the sector be already face recruitment challenge , with 29 , 000 new staff need by September 2025 to deliver the promise 30 hour of funded childcare . the national insurance change could lead to recruitment freeze , reduce staff training and even nursery closure . that be the precise opposite of what this Government claim they want to see for work parent and carer . that would have a detrimental effect on family and the economy , hinder economic growth , and it could seriously impact the Government ' s commendable aim of have half a million more child hit early learn goal by 2030 . finally , let we not forget that even successful local business be feel the strain . Rathfinny , a renowned Sussex wine producer in my constituency that have invest in our local economy and environment , face a significantly high national insurance bill . it may be force to slow its growth , reduce investment or even curb local employment opportunity , undermine the prosperity that benefit we all . this Government talk about economic growth , as Government Members have do today , but this tax increase will inhibit the ability of many british business to expand and flourish . if introduce without nuance , these national insurance change risk deliver a series of damage shock to my community and place across the country . I urge the Government and the Minister to reconsider , to review the threshold , to consider exemption for sector that can not pass on cost and to ensure that our GP practice , childcare provider , community organisation and value local employer be not leave shoulder burden they can not bear . I implore the Government to recognise the unintended consequence and to commit to measure that will preserve local job , sustain our community service and uphold the quality of care we offer our vulnerable citizen . I hope that the Government will do more to ensure that this tax increase do not harm the very community and service we have pledge to serve and protect . the Liberal Democrats agree that the country ' s finance be in a mess thank to the previous Conservative Government . however , we do not agree that increase national insurance be the way to address the problem , as do so will undermine effort to improve public service across the United Kingdom . for example , last month Care Forum Wales issue a stark warning that the rise in national insurance could cause a collapse in the social care system in Wales , create a £ 150 million funding gap . social care in Wales be already on its knee . over the past four year , 40 Welsh care home have close . if yet more be force out of business due to increase cost , we will have even few social care space available . we know that the scene of ambulance leave queue for hour outside our hospital be the result of they be unable to discharge patient due to shortcoming in social care . it be not just care home that be affect , but primary care too . our gps , dentist and pharmacy will suffer from this tax rise . a local gp practice in my constituency tell I that it will have to cut one day of practice nurse time and one day of GP time from April 2025 . that be a direct result of the project £ 30 , 000 increase in its national insurance bill , alongside an overall lack of funding for GPs . a second surgery be project to have an increase in its NI bill great than £ 100 , 000 in April 2025 . both be clear that without an exemption for health and social care provider , the NHS in Wales could face collapse . it already have the bad outcome of any nation across the United Kingdom . charity and local authority will suffer too from this decision . in my constituency , the chief executive officer of Powys Association of Voluntary Organisations have state that the national insurance increase will " place considerable financial pressure on voluntary sector organisation , many of whom be crucial partner in deliver essential service . " that be the reality of the decision take by the Government to use such a blunt tool to try to fix the nation ' s finance . many of my constituent be ask why Labour have choose to go after the small business , charity , and health and social care provider rather than target the big bank , the oil and gas giant , or the social medium giant . I urge the Government to reconsider their decision to raise income in this manner and to make exemption for the health and social care sector as well as for charity . the outcome of the debate be of course inevitable : we know that when we go through the Lobby , we will be smash by the overwhelming strength on the Government side , not because their argument be strong but because of the parliamentary arithmetic . I suspect that even the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , who indicate in her speech that this measure will hit especially labour - intensive service that employ low - pay people and be vital to the smooth running of the economy , will walk through the Lobby with the Government . some people might say , " be that not just the politic of despair ? " it be important that the argument make be at least challenge , despite the fact that , because of the parliamentary arithmetic , it may not come to anything . I do not actually have a political point to score here , because the DUP will never be the alternative Government in this place — though the country be the bad for it . I therefore hope that all the prediction make here today and by independent body that have look at the impact of the Budget be wrong . I hope that we do not find that small employer have to go out of business , that recruitment go down , that the real wage of those who be employ — especially at the low end of the wage spectrum — be cut , and that the service that be so vital to the health service be impact on . I hope that all those thing do not happen . I hope that economic growth be not impact by it , but all the economic evidence , the economic logic and the forecast make indicate that the argument make against this measure by Opposition Members be correct . my understanding be that the Office for Budget Responsibility say that growth will be high in the short term , broadly unchanged over five year and high in the long term . we have see over the last five month that growth have already be impact . of course , the OBR have indicate that in two and three year ' time , growth will be impact negatively as well . I do not think that one can hide behind those argument . as I say , I hope that I be wrong , but I suspect that all the economic logic on the impact of this measure and what we be already hear from employer indicate that that be not the case . the reality be that those who own business in my constituency tell I that they will have to look at reduce wage and reduce number . because of the Government ' s policy , those work in doctor ' surgery will have to look at a reduction in number as well . whether Government Members like it or not , this measure will impact on small and medium - sized business and on GP surgery . that be the reality . the Government be to blame for a recession — there really be talk about it . if a recession come , the Labour party will be responsible . I thank my hon . friend for his short speech to back up the point I have be make . let I look at some of the argument present today . the first be that the Bill will help to fix the NHS . I will not go into the argument already make , but member have make it clear that the NHS depend on primary service and , once people have go through hospital , be able to discharge they into the community . the business that provide those service will be impact by these tax change . I be sure that there be not a Member here who do not already see that hospital bed be be block because there be insufficient capacity . People go into hospital and get mend but still need some respite before they go home , but the NHS can not find place for they . if that be true now , then the situation will be even bad once these tax increase impact those business . a & E be inundate with people who can not get gp appointment . if the government hit GPs , as have be outline eloquently today , those service will be block and not available . where do people go ? they go to A & E . the Bill be mean to help the NHS , yet all the evidence from the people who support it and be part of the supply line say otherwise . the Minister previously indicate that the people whose service be commission from the NHS can renegotiate those service and the payment for they . the very fact that the NHS be in difficulty and be have to be exempt from these national insurance change be an indication that when they go with the bowl , they will be tell that the cupboard be bare and no support will be give . the second argument make today be that we need these change to restore trust in politic , even though it be promise that work people would not be impact . when evidence be give to the Treasury Committee , what do the representative from the Institute for Fiscal Studies say ? they say that these change will affect every work person . we can not hide behind the argument that it be be do for the good of trust in politic . in fact , it will undermine trust in politic . another argument that be make be that we have no choice . the Government already make choice , even before this Budget . they choose to spend money even when they know there be a black hole . they be spend the money that they want to raise from these national insurance contribution on wage increase , quango and other thing . recently , they will not even tell we how much they be spend . the Energy Secretary go to COP and come back and tell we of a £ 300 billion bill come down the road for our sin of industrialise in the past , and he will not tell we how much we will have to pay . we give away the Chagos island , and we be go to pay for that but it be secret . I be enjoy listen to the right hon . member . he be an esteemed former Finance Minister in the Northern Ireland Executive , so I defer to his experience . he be set out his opposition to the measure in the Bill . now that he have reference the black hole , can he tell we what he would do to address the legacy of the previous Government ? this be a mentality — order . I , too , enjoy listen to the right hon . Gentleman , but it would really help if he could continue to speak to the Bill at hand , and not make broad comment . the mentality be that with these national insurance increase we be impose more taxis on small business and on all the sector I have speak about . I would ask the hon . Gentleman what spending decrease could have be look at — have any productivity imposition be put on the public sector , for example ? that should be the answer , rather than ask , " who should we tax to pay for the black hole ? " instead , we should be ask how we can reduce and reprioritise the thing that we do ; look at some of the thing the Government do at present that they do not need to do , or that they could do well , or that they could save money on . I listen with bemusement to the hon . member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) , who be relieve by a survey in the Guardian in which more than 50 % of those survey be quite happy with this tax . if there be so many Guardian reader happy to pay more taxis , I be sure the Scottish National party would love they all to move to Scotland , because it might solve some of the problem they have . these be the kind of strained argument that we have have from Government Members . they know the impact the Bill will have . I be sure they be have the same conversation with their constituent as I have have with the people who have speak to I in my constituency office — the small business , those in the hospitality industry , the GPs and those in the care sector and the charitable sector , who have come to I and tell I the impact it will have on their organisation . I do not believe we can run away from this , despite what will happen when we vote later today . I do not share the optimism of the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) that somehow little cabal will form on the Government Benches — that they will all start whisper , and maybe 10 of they will go to see the Chief Whip , and then next week it will be 20 , and then , by the time there be 50 of they go to see the Chief Whip , this will all change . I do not share that optimism . what I do hope , however , be that the prediction that have be make about the Bill will finally resonate with the Chancellor , and we will see a change in policy . in my constituency and that of my right hon . friend , agrifood manufacturing be a big business base and a big sector . as he will know , many agrifood business be say that these change will increase their bill by £ 50 , 000 , £ 60 , 000 or £ 100 , 000 . on top of the death tax for family farm , that will absolutely decimate our agrifood sector . I urge the Government to pull back from this measure ; otherwise , we will see the cornerstone of our economy destroy . of course , agrifood be another sector that I have not mention , along with hospitality , food processing , all the charitable sector and some that be support the health industry — all be affect by it ; they can not escape it . I believe the impact will be far bad than what the Government be hope for . of course , as a result of the side effect of this measure , the revenue that be hope for might not even be obtain . for accuracy , I want to point out to the right hon . Gentleman that I be far more likely to be see read the Antrim Guardian than the Guardian . I be pleased to hear it . I certainly do not read the Guardian , and I certainly do not share the view , hold by some of its reader , that we should pay more taxis . in closing , the Government have a huge responsibility to tax wisely and to spend wisely , and I do not think they have get that equation right . in fact , they be spend recklessly in many area , and tax recklessly as well . that will impact on their long - term objective , but it will also impact on the life of our constituent day to day . I know that colleague read about how we manage the Chamber , so they will know that I can not put speak limit on individual contribute in Committee of the whole House . however , if the last two member speak for around five minute each , the Minister will have time to respond before we have to conclude business , so please be mindful of that . I will shorten my speech on your guidance , Ms Ghani . I encourage all member of the House to follow the example of the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) and sign up to the Antrim Guardian — a very good local publication from my constituency that carry good article . I rise to come back to the topic of the debate , employer ' national insurance contribution , because we have cover many subject this afternoon . I support the amendment that look to alleviate the punish implementation of , and increase to , employer ' nic , especially for our family health service and social care provider . unlike other speaker on the Opposition Benches who have look to blame the Government for the increase , I do not think the Government be to blame . I think this be more about the Treasury than the whole Government . I want to pick up on a point raise , I think , by the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) . I have a lot of respect and sympathy for the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the right hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) . when he announce his 10 - year plan for the national health service , there be three main platform : to move from analogue to digital , to move from sickness to prevention , and to move from hospital to community . the increase to nic for community - base health provider will put many of those service at risk and under pressure . this be where there be a disconnect between what the Government be try to do and what they be actually go to do and achieve . I think that be the point describe by the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) . if we put the additional charge on our GPs , community pharmacy , optician , domiciliary care provider and social care provider , that will come back , in a circular route , in how we fund our health service . on the specific for Northern Ireland , we be look to transform and modernise a health service that have be largely underfunded and under pressure for quite a number of year , and try to exist on single - year budget since 2016 . we be do that by introduce multidisciplinary team , where a general practice have a psychologist and a social worker all within its practice . general practice be ask for that to be extend across Northern Ireland , but the increase in enic will increase wage bill and pressure on the pharmacy and general practice that have already take that step . the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness also make a point about the introduction of social care within the health service . we already have that in Northern Ireland , and 75 % of the provision be do by the private sector . one thing this House need to address , especially those on the Labour Benches , be that when we talk about private provision , they be not organisation make massive amount of money . in my constituency they be often family - run social care practice that look after two or three home . nearly all nursing and residential care home be privately own too . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about the problem in the social care market . however — this be a point I have make before — a lot of that be owe to the fact that nothing have be do since Andrew Dilnot ' s report in 2011 . perhaps the hon . Gentleman could point to where he have speak out about that in the past . when I be Minister of Health in Northern Ireland — for four year — I look to the Dilnot report , and I try to introduce part of it there because of the differential that exist : in our system , health and social care service be the overall responsibility of the Department of Health . I know what point the hon . Member may have be try to make , but I think he fail to make it directly in that intervention . the impact of not only the Dilnot recommendation but the introduction of employer ' national insurance contribution on those service would actually run counter to anything that Dilnot be recommend , because he be talk about a funded , integral part of domiciliary care as part of the health service , which we already have , but that would put pressure on our health service at the moment . the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) talk about the pressure on the health budget back home in Northern Ireland . I be happy to announce that our Health Minister and the health trade union have just reach a pay agreement , which may restore parity for our health worker in 2024 - 25 but which will also cause additional pressure . although the Treasury ' s exemption of our health and social care sector from the increase in national insurance contribution be welcome news for those work in the sector , it will place an additional burden on the part of the community service that make up the health and social care service across these island — a burden that the Bill will introduce . rise — order . may I ask the hon . gentleman to keep his contribution to just a few minute , so that the Minister have time to respond to all the Back Benchers ? everyone in my constituency , and indeed in the whole country , know that the last Tory Government decimate public service after 14 year of austerity , mismanagement , negligence and a sole focus on the rich , at the expense and neglect of the poor working class and the public sector . I sympathise with the new Government , and I will try to provide constructive support . I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s announcement in the Budget of increase investment in education , the NHS , infrastructure project and other public service , but , like many other people in the House and throughout the country , I do not agree with the approach take to the funding of those investment . member on both side of the Committee have indicate today that fail to protect key sector and service such as general practice , care home , pharmacy , childcare provider and third sector provider may have be an oversight or a mistake on the Government ' s part , but I be not so sure . on the basis of the Government ' s other blanket policy on abolish the winter fuel allowance , impose vat on all private school include low - fee and charitable school and remove business rate relief from all private school and charity without any announcement of safeguard or compensatory measure to protect these service and sector , it appear to have be a deliberate , or negligent , decision . it be clear that the Government inherit a dire state of affair that require huge investment , which must be pay for in a responsible way . I be sorry to say that the way that have be choose by this new Labour Government be not the right one . viable and progressive alternative be available to the Government to raise finance for the necessary investment rather than inflict the increase in national insurance contribution on the impact body . let I suggest a couple of easy measure that would support the Government ' s investment . one possible solution be the imposition of a 2 % wealth tax on asset over £ 10 million , which would raise the amount predict to be raise by national insurance contribution ; another be the closing of corporation tax loophole that allow corporation to save billion and to offshore profit . I be conscious that I have only a few moment to speak . I will not go through the four clause of the Bill , as I take it that everyone will have read it already . I will instead go directly to the amendment that have be table , ahead of potential vote in a few moment . I will address the amendment table by the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) , for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) , for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , and for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) . these amendment seek to exclude certain sector , include healthcare provider , educational setting and charity , from the new rate and threshold for employer national insurance . as hon . member know , the change in the Bill before we represent one of the difficult but necessary decision that the Government have have to take to fix the foundation of our economy and our public finance . will the Minister give way ? I can not give way . I have give way to the hon . gentleman many time in recent week , but I have about four minute in which to address everyone ' s comment . as hon . member have set out , we recognise that the change we be make today will have an impact on employer . make these change be a tough decision that we do not take lightly , but we be also clear that the revenue raise from the measure in this Bill and other in the Budget will play a critical role in both restore economic stability and get the NHS back on its foot . as a result of the measure in this Bill and the wide Budget measure , the NHS will receive an extra £ 22 . 6 billion over two year to deliver 40 , 000 extra elective appointment a week . the Government will provide support for Departments and other public sector employer on additional employer national insurance cost , include central Government , public corporation and local government . independent contractor , include primary care provider , social care provider , charity such as hospice and nursery will not be support with the cost . that be the same as be the case with the change to employer national insurance rate under the previous Government ' s plan for the health and social care levy . primary care provider — general practice , dentistry , pharmacy and eye care — be important independent contractor that provide nearly £ 20 billion - worth of NHS service . every year , the Government consult each sector about what service they provide , and about the money to which they be entitle in return under their contract . as in previous year , the issue we be debate today will be deal with as part of that process in the round . the Department of Health and Social Care will confirm funding for general practice , dentistry and pharmacy for 2025 - 26 as part of the usual contract process later in the financial year , include through consultation with sector . I turn to adult social care . the Government have provide a real - term increase in core local government spending power of around 3 . 2 % for 2025 - 26 , include at least £ 680 million of new grant funding for social care . the funding can be use to address the range of pressure face the adult social care sector ; again , they will be consider in the round . some hon . member have table amendment to exclude charity from the new national insurance rate and threshold . however , it be important to recognise that charity can benefit from employment allowance , which this Bill have more than double from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 . that will benefit charity of all size , particularly the small . the government also provide wide support for charity , include hospice , via a tax regime . this tax regime be among the most generous in the world , with tax relief for charity and their donor that be worth just over £ 6 billion for the year to April 2024 . I recognise that some hon . member have show an interest in the impact of this Bill on childcare setting , as highlight in the amendment table by the hon . member for St Albans , for Grantham and Bourne , and for Lagan Valley , and in the new clause table by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) . early year provider have a crucial role to play in drive economic growth and break down barrier to opportunity . we be committed to make childcare more affordable and accessible , which be why the Government commit in our manifesto to deliver the expansion of government - fund childcare for work parent , and to open 3 , 000 new or expand nursery , by upgrade space in primary school to support the expansion of the sector . despite the very challenging circumstance that the Government inherit , the Chancellor announce in her Budget in October significant increase to the funding that early year provider be pay to deliver Government - fund childcare place . this mean that the total funding will rise to over £ 8 billion in 2025 - 26 . new clause 4 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow , specifically refer to the eligibility criterion for employment allowance . I can assure she that they have not change , except for the removal of the £ 100 , 000 threshold , which will mean that more organisation be able to access employment allowance . the eligibility of a particular organisation will depend on the make - up of an individual business ' s work , which can be determine follow detailed guidance from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . while every organisation will need to check its eligibility for the employment allowance , it be likely that many childcare provider will be able to access it . finally , I will turn to the amendment to exclude university from the new rate and threshold for employer national insurance . we greatly value UK high education in create opportunity , be an engine for growth in our economy and support local community . the Budget provide £ 6 . 1 billion of support for core research and confirm the Government ' s commitment to the lifelong learning entitlement . the Secretary of State for Education have confirm that the maximum fee in the academic year 2025 - 26 will rise , for the first time since 2017 , from £ 9 , 250 to £ 9 , 535 . this be a difficult decision , which demonstrate that the Government be serious about the need to put our world - lead high education sector on a secure footing . I would like to continue , Madam Chair , but I should stop now — four hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding , the debate be interrupt ( Programme Order , 3 December ) . the Chair put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order No . 83d ) , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Brendan o ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Susan Murray Bobby Dean Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden the Committee divide : Ayes 100 , Noes 351 . question accordingly negative . the Chair then put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order No . 83d ) . Amendment propose : 13 , page 1 , line 2 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( A2 ) in section 9 ( 1A ) before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) if sub section ( 1b ) below apply to the earning , the specify sector secondary percentage ; " ( a3 ) after section 9 ( 1A ) insert — " ( 1b ) where a secondary Class 1 contribution be payable as mention in section 6 ( 1 ) ( b ) above , this subsection apply to the earning pay in the tax week , in respect of the employment in question , where the earner be employ in any of the following specify sector — ( a ) adult social care , ( b ) hospice , ( c ) primary care , ( d ) nursery register in the early Years Register maintain by the Office of Standards in Education , Children ' s Services and Skills , or ( e ) a charity register in the charity register or the scottish charity register . ( 1C ) for the purpose of this Act above , the specify sector secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . " — ( Gareth Davies . ) Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Brendan o ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Harriet Cross Rebecca Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden the Committee divide : Ayes 206 , Noes 353 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 23 , page 1 , line 2 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( A2 ) in section 9 ( 1A ) after paragraph ( aa ) insert — " ( ab ) if section 9aa below apply to the earning , the veteran secondary percentage ; " ( a3 ) after section 9A insert — " 9aa Veterans secondary percentage ( 1 ) where a secondary Class 1 contribution be payable as mention in section 6 ( 1 ) ( b ) above , this section apply to the earning pay in the tax week , in respect of the employment in question , where the earner be a veteran . ( 2 ) for the purpose of section 9 ( 1A ) ( a ) above , the veteran secondary percentage be 13 . 8 % . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , a " veteran " mean a former member of any of his Majesty ' s force . " " — ( Daisy Cooper . ) this amendment would exempt veteran ’ salary from nic change . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Susan Murray Bobby Dean Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden the Committee divide : Ayes 196 , Noes 352 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 to 4 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - Review of the impact of the Act " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within a year of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the change introduce by this Act on — ( a ) rate of employment , ( b ) real wage , ( c ) inflation , and ( d ) real household disposable income . " — ( Gareth Davies . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Brendan o ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Harriet Cross Rebecca Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden the Committee divide : Ayes 195 , Noes 353 . question accordingly negative . the occupant of the Chair leave the Chair ( Programme Order , 3 December ) . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment ( Standing Order no . 83d ( 6 ) ) . Bill , not amend in the Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . the Bill seek to put into law one of the tough decision we make at the Budget in October . as I set out in early stage of the Bill , we recognise that there will be impact on employer as a result of the change , with employer face difficult decision . it will implement a difficult but necessary decision that , along with other , be critical to raise the revenue need to fix the public finance , get public service back on their foot and restore economic stability . the Bill before we have three measure : first , an increase to the main rate of employer secondary class 1 national insurance contribution from 13 . 8 % to 15 % ; secondly , a decrease in the secondary threshold for employer from £ 9 , 100 to £ 5 , 000 per year from 6 April 2025 ; and thirdly , change to the employment allowance to support small business . the measure will protect small business and charity by more than double the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 pound a year from April 2025 . in addition , the £ 100 , 000 eligibility threshold will be remove . through the measure in the Bill and other in the Budget , the Government be take the difficult but necessary decision to fix the foundation of our economy . if hon . member in other party choose to vote against the Bill , the british people will see that they be vote to ignore the fiscal mess that we inherit . they be vote to cut investment in the NHS and to increase borrow for day - to - day spending . finally , I reiterate my thank to hon . member who have participate in the debate , and I extend my thank to all the official for their support . I commend the Bill to the House . this be not a Bill , but a shakespearean tragedy . it be the " Hamlet " of our age . while the Labour party be tip the poison into the ear of the electorate , it be assure they in its manifesto that it would do nothing with national insurance . look what it have do . this will hit inflation — all forecast show it higher every year than it would have be under we back in the spring . mortgage will be high , living standard will be low , wage will be drive far down and there will be a £ 770 reduction in the standard of living by October 2029 , accord to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation . we will see 50 , 000 job destroy , particularly among our young people . we will see growth impact — low across the forecast period than it would have be under ourselves back in the spring . this be a far cry from our record when we leave office , with employment at near record high , unemployment at near record low , the fast grow economy in the G7 and real wage grow in every month for 13 consecutive month . we bring inflation down from over 11 % in October 2022 to exactly the target of 2 % on election day . the Bill be a calamity for business up and down our country . we be the party that understand that we only get good public service with a strong economy and strong business . the Labour party be consign people up and down this country , plunge they into the tepid bath of manage decline over which it have preside . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Brendan o ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Harriet Cross Rebecca Smith the House divide : Ayes 354 , Noes 202 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 3 to 5 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Professional Qualifications that the draft Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements ( Amendment ) ( extension to Switzerland etc . ) regulation 2024 , which be lay before this House on 4 November , be approve . International Development that the draft Asian Development Bank ( Thirteenth Replenishment of the Asian Development Fund ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 4 November , be approve . that the draft Inter - American Investment Corporation ( Further Payments to Capital Stock ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 4 November , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . Public Accounts Commission Ordered , that Sharon Hodgson be discharge as a member of the Public Accounts Commission , and that Phil Brickell , John Glen , Tom Hayes , Sarah Olney , Chris Vince and Michelle Welsh be appoint as member of the Public Accounts Commission under section 2 ( 2 ) ( c ) of the National Audit Act 1983 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) BBC Charter Review Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) the outcome of the BBC charter review have be await for a considerable time . let I begin by quote a sentence that have be quote on many previous occasion : " the Mission of the BBC be to act in the public interest , serve all audience through the provision of impartial , high - quality and distinctive output and service which inform , educate and entertain . " as someone say in a different context many year ago , that would be a very good idea . I will not detain the House too long , but as my hon . friend will know , many of our constituent who be put off by BBC bias — but who watch , for example , the BBC Parliament channel , and be probably watch it at this moment — be astounded that they will now pay £ 174 . 50 for the privilege of , in the word of one of my constituent , watch biased news reporting and social justice tracking programme , when all they really want to do be hear the news and watch a programme on farming . the BBC — what be they ? give that my hon . friend be a master of both take and make intervention , I agree with his comment . the previous Government make a statement in April , which be just six or seven month ago . it explain that the purpose of the charter review be : " to take stock , at the Charter ' s half - way point , and evaluate the effectiveness of the BBC ' s governance and regulation . " the statement continue : " the role of public service broadcasting and a free press have never be more significant than it be today . we be all live in an era of fake news " — the Government be certainly right about that — " where social medium create echo chamber of opinion , present individual experience as establish fact and mis and disinformation go unchallenged . " that set the context for the mid - term review . I will move on to the comment make by the director general of the BBC , who have repeatedly say that he want to see great accountability from the organisation . I agree with he that the BBC should be more accountable ; hopefully , the new manifestation of the charter will explain and expand on that . for example , we have have over a number of year what the BBC call the " on - screen talent " . they have only recently have to declare their BBC salary publicly ; I and other campaign for that over many year . many people say it would never be do , but thankfully it be . now we see , year on year , the top presenter all have their BBC salary declare . so they should , because we the public pay those salary , and ought to know what they be . there be another point that the charter review should take account of . a small number of presenter have their BBC salary declare , but some of they have private company , which get commission to make programme that appear on the BBC . we be not allow to know what the proceed of those commission programme be , so it could be the case that some on - screen talent get , for example , £ 300 , 000 or even over £ 400 , 000 a year . they be pay directly by the BBC for their appearance on the BBC , but because they have a private company that get commission to make programme , they get additional sum of money . we do not know whether that be a substantial five - figure sum , or even a substantial six - figure sum . the director general say that he want to see great accountability , and we want to see the sum . hopefully , the charter review can address that . my hon . friend mention information that should be share , and accountability . what about transparency in commission ? he have raise this issue on a number of occasion over the year . be he satisfied that there be transparency in the commissioning process ? be there opportunity and fairness in the process , or be there a great opportunity to inject transparency through the charter review ? my right hon . friend be absolutely correct : there be a lack of transparency . I and other have raise the issue of presenter who do their BBC work and so know what kind of programme the BBC be look for . they have an inside track , because they have a private company that be advantageously place to get a contract . the BBC have be very dilatory in open up about what that mean , how it be review and how the organisation be make accountable . there be a significant lack of transparency . I turn to the issue of the BBC use licence payer ' money in an accountable and transparent way . we have a recent example just last month , when we have a general election in the Irish Republic . I understand that there be a read - across for Northern Ireland from the outcome of that general election , but the BBC in Northern Ireland already have two full - time reporter base in Dublin , who one would assume be well place to cover the irish general election over the three - week period . however , in addition to those two full - time Republic of Ireland - base reporter , the BBC dispatch its Northern Ireland political editor from Belfast , a BBC correspondent from Belfast , a reporter for BBC Newsline from Belfast and a senior journalist from BBC Radio Foyle . all be dispatch to Dublin in addition to the two personnel that the BBC already have in Dublin , to cover the general election in the Irish Republic . we be not allow to know the cost of that coverage of the Irish Republic election , but hopefully the charter review can look at expenditure accountability . the other issue I want to raise be the recent phenomenon know as BBC Verify . Danny Cohen , a former director of BBC television , have say : " BBC verify claim to represent a new gold standard in BBC reporting , but the frequency with which it have have to correct story do not suggest that it be meet these lofty aim " . if a former director of BBC television , describe a very recent phenomenon that be supposedly set up to establish the BBC as the overseer of the verification of other news outlet , be say that it do not really live up to its description , something have to be do to ensure that it do so . if there be go to be verification , it must stand up to close scrutiny . I would hope that the Minister , whom I thank for be in her place , will take this opportunity to respond to the point that have be make . I fully understand that the BBC , in term of its output and its day - to - day transmission , be a separate body over which no one in Parliament should have any say , and we accept that that be the case , but accountability , transparency and the lack of impartiality that be often display in BBC output must be cover by the review of the charter . I hope we can hear something productive from the mid - term review , and I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I be pleased to respond to this debate , and I congratulate the hon . member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) on secure it . the debate be a good opportunity to discuss the upcoming charter review , which we intend to launch next year . he have raise a number of important area relate to the BBC , which I will respond to , but I would first like to make a few broad point about the contribution that the BBC make to the UK . the BBC support our democracy , bring our community together and help to shape and define our nation through tell story about the life of people in all part of the UK . it also play an important role in provide trust news as the UK ' s most trust news brand , reach around 95 % of UK adult each month . it be one of Britain ' s big cultural export and an important soft power asset , with the BBC World Service provide essential , trustworthy news through 42 language service to million of people across the globe . that be a topic I be pleased to discuss today while give evidence to the joint sitting of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , the Foreign Affairs Committee and the International Development Committee . indeed , I see one of the Committee member in the Chamber right now . the BBC have provide some of our most memorable moment across television , represent story from every part of the UK . it act as a linchpin in the UK ' s flourish creative economy , invest in the skill , training and creativity that drive growth across all region of the UK . last year , it contribute £ 4 . 9 billion to the UK economy and support over 50 , 000 job , with more than half of this impact outside London , and it invest more in original british content than anyone else . I shall move on to some of the point the hon . Member raise . I note his view on increase the accountability of the BBC as part of the charter review , and it be important that we get this area right . the charter review will explore BBC accountability , particularly in term of ensure that the BBC be accountable to those who fund it : the british people . as a public service broadcaster that be hugely important to public life , the BBC must be responsive to its audience . the BBC have a duty to deliver impartial and accurate news coverage and content under the charter , which specifically set out that it must observe high standard of openness and seek to maximise transparency and accountability . since 2017 , Ofcom have regulate the BBC and have take action to make sure that it be hold to account . Ofcom be require to prepare and publish an operate framework for the BBC , which must contain provision to secure the effective regulation of the BBC ' s activity . under the BBC ' s new operating licence , introduce last year , the BBC be require to report more comprehensively on its performance and its plan for service . the government welcome Ofcom ' s recent report into the BBC ' s performance in 2023 - 24 and note its finding , include where Ofcom have identify area of improvement for the BBC . it be for Ofcom , as the BBC ' s independent regulator , to monitor the BBC ' s progress in these area . the charter also include provision for the National Audit Office to examine the economy , efficiency and effectiveness with which the BBC use its resource in discharge its function . the hon . Gentleman speak about commission . a key principle of the BBC ' s success be its editorial and operational independence , which must be uphold . that be why decision on commission and programming be for the BBC board , not for the Government . be operationally and editorially independent , BBC commission be rightly a matter for the BBC . it be not within the Government ' s scope to intervene in day - to - day commissioning decision , but the charter require the BBC to open up content production to allow non - BBC producer to compete for BBC project . by the end of the current charter in 2027 , 100 % of BBC television and 60 % of BBC radio will be fully open to competition to support a diverse range of story and view on the BBC . the Minister talk about the BBC need to open up contract to non - BBC personnel . do she accept that this need to be see to be do on an equitable and fair basis , so that people beyond the reach of the BBC , as well as internal , have an equal opportunity to bid for contract ? yes , I do accept that , and it be something we can look at as part of the charter review . of course , Ofcom , as the BBC ' s independent regulator , hold the BBC to account on its performance and its commission practice , and on the market impact of those . the hon . Gentleman mention BBC pay , which I appreciate be a matter of debate and controversy . the royal charter require the BBC , as he rightly say , to publish the salary detail of all BBC staff and talent pay over £ 178 , 000 . salary disclosure of this kind be make for the first time as part of the 2016 - 17 annual report . the salary of BBC staff be also a matter for the BBC and the individual themselves , not for Government . however , the charter review will look again at the transparency of this issue . in my intervention on my hon . friend the Member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) , I refer to impartiality and BBC bias . many of my constituent feel that the BBC be not impartial . under the charter , be it possible for people to express such concern , and for those concern to be investigate ? of course , and there be a complaint procedure right now . a complaint go to the BBC first , and it can then be escalate . if the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be not happy , they can then go to Ofcom . as part of the charter review , it be absolutely right that all member of the public can have their say . we will be launch a public consultation so that his constituent , and indeed people across the country , can have their say , because we want the BBC to represent the people it serve . next year , the Government will launch a charter review with the aim of address some of the challenge we be discuss today and deliver a renew charter by the end of 2027 that will support the BBC not just to survive but to thrive long into the future . this will be the ninth charter review in the BBC ' s history . it will be an opportunity to consider what the BBC be for , how it deliver for audience and how it should be fund , govern and regulate against a rapidly change medium environment . the charter review will also look to uphold the BBC ' s independence and ensure that it maintain the public ' s trust . charter review be a well - establish process , and our next step will be to publish the term of reference next year , set out the objective we wish to achieve . we will ensure that we take all relevant view into account as part of the review . with that in mind , next summer we will also launch a public consultation , as part of which we will encourage everyone to share evidence . we need to have a truly national conversation and ensure that the BBC be reflective of the people it serve , wherever they come from and whatever their background . once we have consult widely , consider the view of stakeholder and assess the evidence , we will outline our policy direction for the next BBC charter in a White Paper in 2026 . there will also be an opportunity to place a draft charter before both Houses before the current charter expire in 2027 . the devolved government will be a key part of the conversation and I look forward to visit Northern Ireland in the come month . I have meet the Northern Ireland Minister for Communities online , and I welcome further conversation with my devolved counterpart . as we address vital issue about the future of the BBC , we must ensure that there be a sustainable funding model that be fair to those who pay for it . we will consider that area as part of the upcoming charter review . the medium landscape have change radically since the current charter be introduce in 2017 , and the BBC face key challenge to its sustainability . we can not ignore the fact that the challenge to the funding model in its current form be increase , and we be fully commit to retain the licence fee for the rest of this charter period . however , for the BBC to succeed , it must have sustainable funding to allow it to adapt and thrive in a change medium landscape . we be clear that what the BBC do and what it can achieve be inextricably tie to how it be fund , and those issue should be consider together . the charter review will be an important part of make sure that the BBC be support to do that . the Government be keep an open mind about the good solution . as my Department ' s work progress , we will be work closely with the BBC and engage with other broadcaster , stakeholder across the creative industry and the british public to inform our thinking . while audience trend be change , there be still million of household that continue to rely on digital terrestrial television , also know as Freeview . I be glad to say that the continuity of the technology have be secure in legislation until at least 2034 . the need to maintain traditional broadcasting platform , at the same time as there be a shift to online viewing , be result in more choice for audience , but it be create financial pressure for our broadcaster , include the BBC . our project on the future of tv distribution will explore those issue . we will analyse how people receive their television programme now , and through the next decade . it will help we to ensure the continuity of a sustainable tv ecosystem and the good outcome for audience . as part of the project , I be glad to be chair a new stakeholder forum on the future of tv distribution , allow I to hear from tv stakeholder , include the BBC , infrastructure provider and group that represent the interest of audience . I will , of course , raise the issue of tv distribution when I next meet my counterpart in the devolved government . the charter review provide we with an exciting opportunity to engage the wide possible range of voice on the future of the BBC . the Government be commit to have a truly national conversation as part of the charter review . it will be an honest , supportive and respectful debate that can give the public confidence in their BBC . we will provide more detail on what that look like and how stakeholder can contribute their view in due course , when we launch the review next year . the hon . member for East Londonderry have contribute to that national conversation today , and for that I thank he . question put and agree to . House adjourn .