Speaker ' s statement I have a short announcement to make regard the implementation of recommendation make by the Procedure Committee in its report , " correct the record " , which the House agree to on 24 October . Hansard have now make the necessary change to enable all member to submit write correction to the Official Report when they have make error of fact in their contribution . when such correction be publish , a footnote will appear in the print version of Hansard , with hyperlink in the online version that will direct the reader to the original content . the same will apply to correction make via point of order and in write ministerial statement . in accordance with the Committee ' s recommendation , a central correction page , list all correction in chronological order and update weekly , will be publish on Parliament ' s website . further information can be find on ParliNet , or by consult the Hansard manage editor . oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — float Offshore Wind what step her Department be take to support float offshore wind project in the Celtic sea . what plan she have to support float offshore wind farm . Britain be a pioneer of float offshore wind . we be work with the Crown Estate to lease 4 . 5 GW of seabed capacity for float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , and we be support emerge technology with a separate funding pot in allocation round 6 . the White Cross project in the Celtic sea have a cable due to come ashore in my constituency , and it advise I that it be unable to agree compensation to business disrupt by these work due to a lack of Government guidance . will my right hon . friend meet I — and , ideally , come to see where the project be due to make landfall — to find an alternative cable route , and if not , will she ensure that White Cross be in a position to fully compensate the business that will be hugely impact if the plan cable route proceed ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a doughty campaigner for float offshore wind . I be unable to comment on any specific concern about a particular planning decision , but I be sure the relevant Minister will be happy to meet she to discuss how the Government can provide well guidance on compensation . People whose land be acquire compulsorily should not be leave bad off financially , and compensation should be offer in line with the statutory compensation code . what assistance can be have for those fast - grow enterprise principally reliant on equity ? I thank my right hon . friend for a typically pithy question . we be do an enormous amount to support the landscape for investment in this country that rely on equity , whether that be through full capital expensing , or , in my area of responsibility , the green industry growth accelerator . I be sure the Secretary of State will agree that much of Britain ' s energy need could be meet , and generate , offshore . alongside float wind power , we also have the opportunity to take advantage of tidal and marine power . do she recognise that Britain have the second large tidal range in the world after Canada , yet we use so little of it ? to put that right , will she agree to meet I , other colleague in this House and the northern tidal power gateway to look at how we can gain green , renewable , secure british energy from Morecambe bay ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . I have be follow tidal power for many year , and he be right to point out that the UK have both a strong record in renewable and an interesting geological landscape for new renewable technology . we have dedicate £ 105 million — our big ever budget — to the flow of emerge technology through ar6 , but I would be delighted to meet he to discuss his work far . I thank the Secretary of State for her response . there be always a competition . as I represent Strangford , the fishing sector be very important to I . it be important that we have float offshore wind project , but also to ensure that fishing can be sustainable . in these discussion , can she confirm that the interest of the fishing industry and representation from the fishing industry be give appropriate weight , take into consideration the need for sustainable fishing to continue ? without fish my people will lose job . I thank the hon . Gentleman . we be passionate supporter of the fishing industry . we continue to have conversation with the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to ensure that we share our marine bed in an equitable way , not only get the most out of it for our clean energy need but protect the fishing industry . I call the shadow Minister . I be sure the Secretary of State do not want a repeat on her watch of the failure of allocation round 5 , when her Department manage to crash the offshore wind market . however , the industry be already warn that the parameter set for float wind in the next round , ar6 , could mean that only one sub - gigawatt project succeed in get contract for difference support : way off the Government ' s recently trumpet target of 5 GW of float offshore by 2030 . what step be she take to ensure that we do not see another failure and lose the global race for this emerge technology ? if people want to ensure that we win the global race for renewable technology , they should , frankly , vote conservative . under the Conservatives , world - lead mechanism have be introduce . the only country that have build more offshore wind capacity than the UK be China . we have an enormous and very successful track record , and continue to work with industry to ensure that ar6 will be a success . I be not sure that answer give much reassurance to industry or this House . the truth be that uprate our port infrastructure be critical for deploy float offshore wind and for reach a zero carbon power system , but government support be so inadequate that they be fund only two port , drop viable project on the way , when , accord to the float offshore wind taskforce , to reach float offshore wind ambition we need infrastructure upgrade in at least 11 port . be this not another example of the Government fail to invest for the future and fail to back british industry ? the only failure on renewable energy be the record labour leave when they be in power , when 7 % of our electricity be generate from renewable whereas now that figure be 50 % . on port , not only have we get our world - lead freeport agenda but we have put forward project such as FLOWMIS — the float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme — which be also help to build our port infrastructure . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . with 17 GW of float offshore wind plan to be anchor within 100 nautical mile of Aberdeen , what step will the Secretary of State take to ensure that technological and engineering knowledge and wherewithal and supply chain investment be also anchor within 100 mile of the north - east of Scotland ? we be do an enormous amount of work on supply chain . we have put forward our £ 1 billion green industry growth accelerator fund to support british supply chain , and we be also take step to attract investment into this country to build british business . all of that will be positive for the scottish offshore wind sector . Fuel Poverty : Winter 2023 - 24 what estimate she have make of the number of household that be in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . what estimate she have make of the number of household that be in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . as previously state , fuel poverty be devolve . statistic for England estimate that there be 3 . 17 million household in fuel poverty in 2023 , over 1 . 5 million few than in 2010 . April ' s new price cap will see 6 million household across the UK in fuel poverty and National Energy Action estimate this figure will include 8 , 800 household in North Tyneside alone . the Government promise their household upgrading scheme would help 100 , 000 household but in nine month it have help few than 5 , 000 and only 15 in my constituency . can the Minister account for the abysmal failure of the flagship policy ? I stand by the Government ' s record of support on fuel poverty : we have help with affordability and with insulation and energy efficiency . we have give unprecedented support to 350 , 000 household , who be keep out of fuel poverty at the energy peak in 2022 . electricity standing charge for people in the north - east be 71 . 2p per day while those in the south pay 40 . 79p per day . can the Minister explain why the people in the north - east , the area experience the high level of fuel poverty in the country , be pay 75 % more than those in other region simply for the privilege of be connect to the grid ? the hon . Gentleman make a reasonable point on stand charge , which be one reason why we have urge Ofgem to gather information on they . we have have over 30 , 000 response and will be look at this in due course . in the Office for National Statistics and House of Commons datum , fuel poverty in England be 13 . 5 % back in 1996 . it rise to 22 % by 2010 and , as have already be mention , it fall back to 13 % in 2023 . do the Minister agree that that show that conservative deliver energy policy with environmental and economic good sense and have do a lot well than the last Labour Government ? as I say , we be incredibly proud of our record on head towards net zero and ensure energy security so that never to have to go through the cost of living crisis that we have recently go through . large Solar Farms : National Grid if she will make an assessment of the ability of the National Grid to connect to large solar farm in ( a ) 2024 and ( b ) 2029 . network company be expect to deliver connection by the date stipulate in customer connection agreement . reform to accelerate the connection process and build time for transmission infrastructure will help to ensure that expectation be meet . may I welcome the Minister to his new responsibility and urge he to focus on this particular issue ? accord to a recent report by the UK Sustainable Investment and Finance Association , 44 % of investor in solar power say there be problem get interconnection with the grid . we know there be issue in the distribution network , which mean that the transmission network be probably the only place that large - scale utility solar farm can connect , and people be worried that only particular part of that network accept contract . will the Minister look at that in detail , because there be major concern in my constituency that there will be connection at Eaton Socon power station , which be one of the few place where contract be be offer ? that be absolutely understand . as set out in the spring Budget , the Government be work with Ofgem and network company to release more network capacity and to prevent speculative project from obtain and retain network capacity . that , alongside fast network infrastructure delivery , should result in more capacity across the country and help to reduce any clustering of generation project . national grid infrastructure be critical to the delivery and connection of these solar farm , as it be for onshore and offshore wind . the importance and urgency of that be stress by the Winser review of August last year . the Government have get until 2030 to deliver this policy . will the Minister update we on the transmission acceleration action plan ? the hon . member be spot on . we be proud to have go from 7 % renewable energy to 47 % . to go far , we must hit those ambitious target by unlock additional investment . for example , through the accelerate strategic transmission investment process , we anticipate unlock a furth £ 198 billion of investment by 2030 . alongside the change I have already set out , that will be key to get that extra power generate through solar . surely it be not an adequate justification for build solar farm on 10 , 000 acre within a six - mile radius that Gainsborough be close to the national grid serve the old power station . be that not gross overdevelopment on good arable land , and should the inspector not take account of this overdevelopment ? I understand my right hon . friend ' s raise this point . that be why it be clear in plan policy and guidance that solar project should be direct to previously develop or non - greenfield land . that be the message we reinforce in the January national planning statement to ensure that we reduce unnecessary clustering . may I also welcome the Minister to his new role ? accord to National Grid , £ 58 billion of investment be need to meet our 2035 decarbonising target . british electricity demand be expect to rise by 64 % in the next 10 year , and the current system be still design around electricity source of the past , such as coal . new cable need to be build to bring electricity from renewable energy source , as we have already hear . what assessment have the Department make of the impact this problem be have on green investment ? I thank the hon . member for her kind word . I enjoy work with she on many occasion in my former role . the Government have continue to work with the public and business to unlock additional investment . for example , through the connection action plan , we expect an additional 40 GW of accelerated collection date to be release , which will particularly help in the area of solar . we be also look at the £ 85 billion of investment we have unlock since the autumn statement through the transmission acceleration action plan . those be all vital component to hit our ambitious target . net Zero target : business and investor what recent discussion she have have with business and investor on the Government ' s net zero target . what recent discussion she have have with business and investor on the Government ' s net zero target . as a Department , our ministerial team meet regularly with industry : for example , through the hydrogen investor forum , the Offshore Wind Industry Council , the solar taskforce , the Green Jobs Delivery Group and the cross - cut Net Zero Council , which be shortly celebrate its first anniversary . car maker warn what would happen before the Government delay the end date for the sale of new petrol and diesel car . sure enough , sale of new electric car be down by 19 % in the late figure from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders . switch to electric driving be cheap over the lifetime of the vehicle . why do the Government not listen to the warning from business ? do they not want people to benefit from cheap travel ? I proudly drive an electric vehicle myself , and I celebrate the fact that 48 , 388 electric vehicle be register in March 2024 alone . eight in 10 of the large energy company recently survey by the UK Sustainable Investment and Finance Association agree that the UK be fall behind in the race to become the most investable market for low - carbon technology . what step will the Minister take to reassure the clean energy industry that the UK be serious about the transition to net zero , which must include move away from a commitment to max out oil and gas production ? I very much welcome the hon . member ' s highlight the importance of this area . I be sure that he will join I in celebrate the fact that we secure £ 60 billion of investment in low - carbon technology in 2023 , up a staggering 71 % on the previous year . we be head in the right direction to meet our ambitious target . do the Minister agree that it be economic madness to pursue our current ruthless net zero agenda , outsource carbon production to the like of China and force we to pay more to heat our home and power our economy ? we must put the british taxpayer first . it be crucial that we work with the public and business , not against they . in " power up Britain " we set out our plan to secure our energy system by ensure a resilient and reliable supply , increase our energy efficiency and , crucially — my hon . friend will welcome this — bring down bill . the Zero Carbon Humber project be a vital part of the country ' s achieve its net zero target . however , there be concern among potential investor — particularly in connection with the carbon cluster project — that the Government be move a little too slowly . will the Minister reassure those business that the timetable will be honour ? my hon . friend regularly champion investment in his constituency , work closely alongside the business he support . we understand the importance of that . just before Christmas , we set out a road map to speed up the process , which we very much hope will unlock that vital investment for his community . we come to the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister to his post . I think he be struggle a little bit to get with the programme , but hopefully he will soon be on message . [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] that be in term of his answer to the question about be anti - net zero . the Department confirm last month that curtailment payment cost a whopping £ 1 . 4 billion last year . that be bill payer ' money be use to pay provider to switch off wind power and switch on gas . why should people be pay even more on their energy bill to switch off clean and cheap energy because the Government have fail to deliver the net zero capacity that we need ? that be why we have be focus on expand the interconnector network so that , where we produce energy that we can not use domestically , it can be sell . I also welcome last year ' s large - scale expansion of battery farm — they have be spring up at an amazing speed — which allow we to store the energy supply that exceed demand . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s prediction of what the curtailment payment will be in the come year , because they be up for the previous year . in a survey of energy industry leader , nearly 90 % say that we need new policy to make the UK more attractive to investor . nearly two third be move investment out of the UK , and three quarter blame a lack of clarity from this Government on net zero . be it not time for Ministers and Back Benchers to drop the culture war and put british industry and job first ? on a lack of clarity , I think the shadow Minister have mix thing up with the green prosperity plan . even I can not keep up with the late position of senior figure in the Labour party , but I think the shadow team lose that battle . the reality be that in 2023 we secure £ 60 billion of private investment in low carbon technology , which be up a staggering 71 % on the previous year . that be a credit to our team who deliver that . Rooftop Solar Panel what step she be take to encourage the installation of rooftop solar panel . the Government recently consult on the future home and building standard , which explore how we can drive on - site renewable electricity generation , such as solar panel , in new home and building . in December we simplify planning process for large rooftop installation by remove the 1 MW cap for non - domestic array in permit development right . the CPRE ' s rooftop solar campaign call for far great emphasis on the installation of solar panel on our nation ' s rooftop , rather than the promotion of ground - mount solar on greenfield and agricultural land , which harm our natural environment and imperil UK food security . would the Minister be kind enough to read the CPRE ' s " light the way " report , which highlight international good practice on this issue ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and his recommend reading . I be aware of the CPRE ' s rooftop campaign , and I be keen to understand the finding of its late report . as set out in the british energy security strategy and the energy security plan , we be aim for 70 GW of solar capacity by 2035 . that would be more than quadruple our current instal capacity . we need to maximise the deployment of both type of solar to achieve that ambition . this be my first chance to offer my condolence to you , Mr Speaker , on the death of your dad . he be a great man and help induct I into this place when I first come here in 1979 . if we be to have a proper domestic solar roll - out across , we desperately need more train people in the green sector . what will the Minister do about that ? be it not about time that every university and further education college offer apprenticeship and way in to these wonderful job ? will he talk to industry leader , such as Octopus , about their shortage of skilled man and woman ? absolutely . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State regularly meet company such as Octopus . through our green job delivery plan we be entice more people into the job of the future , to help deliver our ambitious target . it be interesting to note that Labour ' s plan would halve the number of apprenticeship for those job in the UK , should it ever get into power . Onshore Wind Planning Applications what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on trend in the number of onshore wind planning application . in 2023 , 80 onshore wind planning application be submit in Great Britain — a 27 % increase from 2022 . we have recently change planning policy in England to pave the way for more onshore wind project where there be local support . it be now seven month since the Government claim to have lift the onshore wind ban . the Secretary of State at the time claim that her decision would speed up the delivery of project . since then , no new application for onshore wind farm for domestic use have be submit . do the Minister think that that have be a success ? unlike the opposition , we like to work with and listen to community around the country . we believe in local consent for project . it should be up to local community to decide whether and how much onshore wind they want in their area . the opposition do not like to talk about this , but we must remember that in 2010 , a pitiful 7 % of electricity come from renewable — that be up to 50 % under this Government . Solar Farms : impact on Local Communities what assessment she have make of the potential impact of solar farm on local community . as with any new development , solar project may impact community . the planning system consider all perspective when balance local impact with national need . it be important that local area benefit from host net zero infrastructure . many developer already offer community benefit package . if the Minister have want to see the impact that a massive solar farm , such as the so - call Lime Down carbuncle in my constituency , will have on local people , he should have come to Malmesbury town hall last week , where 750 people be protest against this appalling plan in North Wiltshire . it be go to be 2 , 000 acre of panel , 3 million panel , 5 , 000 acre blight , and 30 mile to the near connection down at Melksham . it be an absolutely disgraceful proposal . it come at a time when Wiltshire have eight out of 10 of the large solar farm . we already have enough , vastly exceed our county target for solar production . will the Minister consider the cumulative effect of all these solar farm ? will he ask the National Infrastructure Commission to take into account the cumulative effect of solar farm when consider such application ? I very much thank my hon . friend for that question . he raise a very interesting topic , and one that we be listen to . the project he speak to be at the pre - application stage . an application be expect to be submit to the Planning Inspectorate between January and March 2025 . due to my quasi - judicial role in determine application for development consent , it be not appropriate to comment on any specific matter . I be aware that some of his constituent be come to Parliament this Thursday and I will be happy to meet they to discuss their concern . decarbonisation : off - grid Properties what step she be take to support off - grid property to decarbonise . the Government offer grant of £ 7 , 500 to those want to install a heat pump , or £ 5 , 000 to install a biomass boiler , under the boiler upgrade scheme . support for energy efficiency upgrade and low - carbon heat be also available through our help to heat scheme . Cornwall have a very large number of off - grid property . one way they can decarbonise their heating be through the use of renewable liquid heating fuel . last year , the Government say there would be a consultation on promote and support the use of that fuel in the come month . however , in response to a recent write question it be suggest that it would not be launch until at least September this year . will the Government bring forward the consultation as soon as possible , so we can help people to decarbonise through the use of renewable fuel ? the Government recognise the potential for renewable liquid fuel to play a role in decarbonise heat where heat pump be unsuitable , and we be work at pace to develop a consultation that will explore that role in more detail . we will be issue a consultation in September , in line with commitment make by Ministers during parliamentary debate on the Energy Act 2023 . I support the cause of the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) . the transition to hydrotreate vegetable oil be far cheap than heat pump ; we be talk about a conversion that be do in an hour for about £ 500 . I urge the Government to proceed on that with haste . it be important to note that we be take this matter incredibly seriously . we be also provide funding to tackle fuel poverty and reduce carbon emission through the energy company obligation , the home upgrade grant and the social housing decarbonisation fund . Nuclear Energy Capacity what step she be take to increase nuclear energy capacity . the historic nuclear road map that I announce in January reconfirm the Government ' s ambition to deploy up to 24 GW of nuclear power by 2050 . the road map set out plan to make investment decision concern 3 GW to 7 GW every five year between 2030 and 2040 . Nuclear be essential not just for our economy but for our national security . a truly sovereign supply do not just mean commission new reactor but increase our skill base , so I welcome the £ 750 million invest in that . what step be the Department take to ensure that people in community such as Heywood and Middleton can access that skill funding , so they can take advantage of high - skilled , well - pay job in the sector ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he be a doughty champion in this area — indeed , he should be with Atom Valley in his constituency . as he reference , last month the Prime Minister announce significant investment in develop the nuclear skill pipeline , help the sector to fill 40 , 000 new job by the end of the decade , include support plan to double the number of nuclear apprentice and quadruple the number of specialist site and nuclear fission phds . Green Technologies : investment what step she be take to help increase investment in green technology . what step she be take to help increase investment in green technology . the UK have already make tremendous progress in secure investment in green technology . recent figure indicate that the UK see £ 60 billion of investment in 2023 , mean that since 2010 the UK have see £ 300 billion of public and private investment in low - carbon sector . as a Department , the ministerial team and I meet regularly with investor , such as through our second hydrogen investor forum event and regular roundtable to understand how we can well encourage investment . it be true that the UK have a remarkable track record of win investment in green technology , but give that other country be now proceed apace with their own green investment plan , do my hon . friend agree that if we can show that we have effective policy for speed up planning consent for energy project and expand grid capacity at a far fast rate , and if we can fix our contract for difference regime , we shall be able to demonstrate to investor once again that this be the very good place in which to invest in such technology ? my right hon . friend be right : we have a proud record of investment in green and clean technology , and in many respect we be lead the world in that regard . last year we launch our Giga project and this year we be launch CfD allocation round 6 , which be the stand - out leader when it come to entice investor — but of course we can go fast and far , and where we can we will . that be why I be so pleased to see the work that be be do within my Department and , indeed , with industry with the aim of do just that . give that there be no more important technology in the UK ' s green industry than hydrogen , I be pleased to note that , after much dilly - dally , the Department have listen to my continued advocacy of hydrogen blending in pipe . I look forward to see its plan imminently , but what support be it give to home appliance provider who want to take advantage of the benefit of hydrogen to create hydrogen - ready technology that can be use for both blend and fully hydrogen - power appliance ? my hon . friend be another doughty champion for one of the expand sector in which we be invest : his championing of the hydrogen industry in this country be unmatched . I should be happy to meet he to discuss how we can progress far and speed up investment in hydrogen , which will be key to secure the progress of so many of our ambitious project . along with my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) , I co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on green deal mis - selling . after nearly 10 year , we be still wait for justice for our constituent who be tell to invest in green technology for their home . a legal process be under way , but it be very lengthy . Most of our affected constituent be over 70 when all this happen , and some be over 80 . there must be a political solution . numerous Prime Ministers and Secretaries of State have agree that what happen to our constituent be dreadful , so why do they not find a solution that will encourage other people to feel confident that they too can invest in green technology in the knowledge that the Government have their back should it go wrong ? I agree with the hon . Lady that what happen be dreadful . as she have say , an ongoing legal process be under way so I be restrict in what I can say at the Dispatch Box , but I should be happy to meet she in the come day to discuss the specific involve her constituent who be affect . the south - west be proud to be punch above its weight in green technology , and will soon welcome a £ 4 billion gigafactory at the Gravity site near Bridgwater which will create 4 , 000 new job and boost the green economy . investment in infrastructure around the country be need if we be to see more development of that kind , so what step be the Department planning to facilitate such venture ? it be fantastic to hear Liberal Democrats champion conservative policy that be bring investment and new job into the country — for that be what happen under a Conservative Government — and it be great that a gigafactory be plan for the south - west . as a result of Giga and so many of the other project and fund launch by the Department , we expect to see many more such development , but of course there be work to be do : we can go far and fast , and , as I have say , where we can we will . I look forward to work with the hon . Lady in far champion the UK as the destination of choice for all who want to invest in these new technology . Grid Decarbonisation : cost what recent estimate she have make of the cost of decarbonise the grid by ( a ) 2030 and ( b ) 2035 . what recent estimate she have make of the cost of decarbonise the grid by ( a ) 2030 and ( b ) 2035 . our plan to decarbonise the grid by 2035 be ambitious but achievable , and have be assess as realistic by the Climate Change Committee . they will build on the UK ' s achievement in become the first major economy to have halve emission . accord to independent analysis , secure a net zero grid by 2030 would cost taxpayer £ 116 billion , and it would mean a " make in China " transition . the Conservatives have a strong track record of promote renewable , and this Government be support british company and supply chain through programme such as Giga with funding which now stand at more than £ 1 billion . do my right hon . friend agree that Labour ' s unaffordable and unrealistic plan to achieve a net zero grid by 2030 will not give british supply chain time to grow , as well as mean the " make in China " transition to which she have refer ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . only recently , we have see european country have to wean themselves off russian oil and gas . we can not do that , only to become dependent on other part of the world for our energy need . our plan will give british supply chain time to develop , ensure that british worker can reap the benefit of the energy transition . accord to expert analysis , the Labour plan will cost taxpayer £ 100 billion — all to undermine british manufacturing and risk blackout . as the Secretary of State be aware , the Environmental Audit Committee inquiry into decarbonise the economy have hear evidence that no newly commission nuclear capacity — even from small modular reactor — be able to come on stream until 2035 . new energy project give planning consent today be unlikely to connect to the grid before 2030 , and the scale of the necessary grid network roll - out to reach our 2035 target be already huge . what do my right hon . friend make of the feasibility , let alone the cost that she have highlight today , of the fantasy pipe dream of official Labour party policy to decarbonise by 2030 ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . the plan that we have set out represent the large expansion of nuclear in 70 year , with radical reform to the grid . however , it do take time to build thing . labour ' s 2030 policy be mad , bad and downright dangerous . I have yet to meet a serious expert or a single person in the industry who believe it be possible . we have a record to be proud of , become the first major economy to halve our emission , but labour ' s plan would heap cost on to taxpayer , in stark contrast to our pragmatic and proportionate approach . if grid decarbon - isation by 2030 really do cost the billion of pound that the Secretary of State claim , she might care to explain why her own policy be to achieve 95 % of full decarbonisation by the very same date . she know that independent analysis actually say that Labour ' s plan would reduce family ' energy bill by £ 300 a year , so will she ' fess up ? will she admit that the true price of her failure will be pay for by hard - press family in their energy bill ? I would completely reject that , base on the many conversation that I have have with industry and expert . the plan that we have set out have be assess by the Climate Change Committee as be realistic . the plan that the Labour party have set out have be criticise by pretty much every single part of the energy system . rather than play politic with this issue , the hon . Gentleman should consider the reality of the taxis , the raise bill and the problem with the economy that Labour ' s plan would force on Britain . last year , the Government promise that they would publish their decarbonisation plan by the end of 2023 , but they have fail to do so . be that because the Secretary of State be too embarrassed to admit the truth ? she be way off track , even for deliver clean power by 2035 , because she have bungle the offshore wind auction , be fail on energy efficiency and refuse to end the onshore wind ban . be it not the case that she want to attack labour ' s plan because she can not defend she own ? I thank the hon . Lady , but that be an extraordinary question . there would be much more credibility from the Labour party if it would recognise that the UK be the first country in the G20 — the 20 large economy — to halve emission . while Labour member might play politic with this issue , I be absolutely happy to defend our position on deal with our climate change obligation in a pragmatic way that protect household finance . Public Ownership of the Energy System whether she have make an assessment of the potential merit of public ownership of the energy system . properly regulate market , which incentivise private capital to invest in the energy system , provide the good outcome for consumer and promote market competition as the good driver of efficiency , innovation and value . despite the Minister ' s disagreement , public ownership exist in our energy system . for example , 45 % of our offshore wind asset be publicly own , just not by the UK — they belong to the state - own company of country such as Denmark and Norway . publicly own energy company can accelerate the transition to clean energy while create job , reduce bill and ensure that the public benefit directly from our common resource . country that be lead the transition to renewable have realise this ; when will the Minister ? I thank the hon . member . it be flattering : I be 48 hour into my role , and she would like to upgrade it so that I can personally be in charge of deliver energy company . I gently remind she that in her own local authority of Nottingham City Council , Robin Hood Energy , which be chair by a politician — the public probably want few , not more , of we — manage to cost taxpayer a staggering £ 38 million . LNG Emissions : impact of Oil and Gas Licences what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the number of oil and gas licence issue by her Department on the level of carbon emission from import liquefy natural gas . North Sea Transition Authority analysis show that produce natural gas domestically be almost four time clean than import liquefy natural gas from abroad . without continued licensing , our dependence on import oil and gas , include LNG , will only increase more quickly in the future . I have always be a fan of we fully exploit our natural resource . we have get to take a pragmatic route to cut our carbon emission , but at the forefront of our thinking must also be drive down energy cost , boost energy security and not do anything that enfeeble our country on the global stage . do the Minister agree that this be the right approach in term of energy cost and that not import as much liquefy natural gas will also make our carbon footprint small ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s analysis . utilise our own domestic resource be just common sense when the alternative be to import more fuel from abroad . it would be an act of self - sabotage to put restriction on our own domestic sector , damage job and investment only to liquefy and ship gas from halfway around the world and create more emission in the process . I welcome the Minister to his post , but he will know that most of our gas import be not LNG and that they actually come via a pipeline from Norway , where gas production be half as pollute as it be in the UK . new oil and gas would not only be disastrous for our climate ; it would also fail to boost energy security . follow the welcome announcement that the UK will finally withdraw from the energy charter treaty , will the Government also reverse their decision to license the Rosebank oil field , which will cost the climate and the public purse extremely dear ? I thank the hon . member for her kind comment . while we scale up our clean energy success , include in renewable , which have go from 7 % to 40 % , there be still a need for oil and gas . a failure to issue a new licence would make no difference to the consumption of oil and gas , but it would increase import , which typically have high emission , and also damage our economy . Offshore Energy Grids whether she plan to support offshore energy grid . offshore transmission be central to the Government ' s balanced approach to deliver an electricity network fit for net zero . the Minister will be aware of the Norwich to Tilbury pylon proposal , which will put 50 - metre pylon through swathe of the Norfolk , Suffolk and Essex countryside . he will also be aware that the recent electricity system operator review indicate that it will soon be cost - neutral to have an offshore option for that same energy transition , and that multiple point for connect offshore wind turbine to the grid be face planning problem . will he do what he can to engage with National Grid and get it to do the right thing and look at a cost - neutral option of offshore transmission , rather than the current onshore proposal ? my hon . friend have a long - stand record of make powerful suggestion on behalf of his constituent and neighbouring constituency on this important issue . the ESO ' s recent study consider a total of a nine alternative option for transmission route in East Anglia , include three predominantly offshore option and two hybrid onshore and offshore option . it be important that we try to work with community . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I would first like to pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , who serve this government for eight year , include as Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero since 2022 . he will be miss in the role for his expertise . he attend his first cop in 2005 and be instrumental in our achievement at COP28 last year . he help the UK to halve its emission , which be an extraordinary achievement . we be the first major economy to do so . he also work with the Net Zero Council , protect family through the global energy crisis and back 200 , 000 british oil and gas worker . he leave a legacy of which he can be very proud . I would also like to welcome the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for North Swindon ( Justin Tomlinson ) , a tireless campaigner who I know will continue this Government ' s world - lead work . since I last update the House , family be benefit from a drop in the energy price cap worth almost £ 250 a year to the average household . I have set out plan to reform tariff , save bill payer up to £ 900 a year , and invest £ 750 million in nuclear skill as part of my plan for the large expansion of nuclear in 70 year . the consultation on renewable liquid fuel from September be welcome , but the recent survey by the Future Ready Fuel campaign show that 88 % of respondent from off - grid household actively want the option of switch to a renewable liquid fuel . will my right hon . friend work with I to ensure that we can get consumer the choice that they actually want , and not the heat pump that many do not ? I thank my hon . friend . I know that he be a fantastic champion for people live off the gas grid . we be support off - grid home to transition to heat pump or biomass boiler through the boiler upgrade scheme , with grant of up to £ 7 , 500 . renewable fuel such as hydrotreate vegetable oil have the potential to play an important role in heat off - grid building , and we will be issue a consultation on that role by September , in line with commitment make by Ministers during the passage of the Energy Act 2023 . we now come to the shadow Secretary of State . Mr Speaker , can I start by pay tribute to your father , Doug ? he be a remarkable fighter for social justice , and we share your sense of loss . a year ago , after preside over the absolute scandal of the force installation of prepayment meter , the right hon . Lady ' s predecessor promise full compensation for anyone affect . unbelievably , she have leave it to the energy company to decide who get compensation and how much . they have assess 150 , 000 people and just 1 , 500 get anything — 99 % get nothing . why have she so catastrophically fail to deliver justice for those affect by the PPM scandal ? the right hon . Gentleman do actually raise an important issue . we have grip the question of prepayment meter since the scandal first emerge . not only have we make it clear that the horror that we see last winter , of people force prepayment meter on vulnerable household , should not take place , but I have be in contact with Ofgem in recent day about make sure that people can get the compensation they deserve at the speed with which they need it . that be simply not good enough . it be a year on . the right hon . Lady be the Energy Secretary ; she should be deliver that compensation to people , and she be fail across the board . the onshore wind ban remain ; the offshore wind market crash ; the insulation scheme be a disaster , while she spend her time appease the flat - earth , anti - net zero brigade in her own party . no wonder the former Energy Minister , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) resign . be it not the truth that the Secretary of State be fail in her job and the british people be pay the price ? the right hon . Gentleman do not listen to my previous answer . it be this Government who work with Ofgem to make sure that force prepayment meter installation stop take place for vulnerable household . we have say very clearly that it be abhorrent , and we do not want to see it again . on compensation , we be work with Ofgem . however , if the right hon . Gentleman talk about the wide energy plan — and we should do that — I think that he should consider the recent comment from industry that Labour ' s plan would leave the country uninvestable , that they would hike the bill that people would pay , and that they would cost so much in need taxis — over £ 100 billion of cost for Labour ' s mad plan to decarbonise the grid by 2030 , which , let I be clear , be not back by industry , the union or consumer . we have see the price of fuel go up at the pump because of what have happen in Ukraine , but , in this country , we have also see that there be great variety at different petrol station . I be really pleased that the Competition and Markets Authority have look into it and that the Government be come forward with Pumpwatch . we have see something similar in Australia that save up to £ 50 for the individual . can we make sure that , when this come into play , the Government have an advertising campaign so that the public know that they will be able to see local price , up to date every 30 minute , for the good place to get their fuel ? we will publish the Government ' s response to the recent Pumpwatch consultation as soon as possible , and we continue to work closely with the Competition and Markets Authority , and the sector technology company , to launch Pumpwatch this year . of course , my hon . friend make an incredibly important point that , when we launch this , we will of course make sure that everybody know about this valuable resource . I call the SNP spokesperson . we learn last year that no few than 200 Department for Energy Security and Net Zero job be go to transfer from London to Aberdeen . that be champion by no less than the Secretary of State for Scotland , the right hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( Mr Jack ) and the Minister responsible for nuclear and renewable , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) . it now transpire that only 35 job will transfer to Aberdeen . for context , that is 0 . 37 % of the DESNZ workforce . be the Secretary of State content for that derisory transfer of job from her Department to Aberdeen ? presumably she will not be , so what be she go to do about it to give the north - east of Scotland a well deal ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this issue . we be very proud — I be particularly proud — that we have announce Aberdeen as our second headquarters . host our second headquarters underline the importance of the north - east of Scotland in our net zero transition . unlike the Scottish National party , we champion the north - east of Scotland . they be anti - exploration , anti - new licence and anti - oil and gas . the headquarters already have more than 100 staff , and our ambition be for more than 135 by March 2027 . I have be do some research , though : it turn out that the Scottish Government — his party ' s Government — have a grand total of zero job in his own constituency of Angus . resident in Cranbrook and Tithebarn have face frequent energy outage and woeful customer service from E . on ' s district heating network . the Government ' s Energy Act 2023 mean that district heating network will finally be properly regulate . will my right hon . friend outline when this regulation will be bring in ? the initial phase of heat network regulation , include transparency rule , will come into force in 2025 . some requirement , such as pricing regulation and guarantee performance standard , require more market datum and will be introduce in the second - phase regulation in 2026 . do the Minister acknowledge that the alarm delay in track 1 carbon capture and storage expansion and track 2 timeline endanger the Humber ' s status as a global leader in hydrogen and CCS , endanger £ 15 billion of private investment and jeopardise industrial decarbonisation and economic growth ? we recognise the role that CCS can play for the economy not just in the Humber but across the wide british economy , which be why we have set out £ 20 billion of investment commit to this sector . we set out an ambitious road map just before Christmas , and we continue to meet investor to see how we can speed up the process . I have be speak to my constituent about the whole net zero agenda . although the people of Romford be very determined to see clean and green energy source , I have to say that their priority be energy security , energy self - sufficiency and energy sovereignty . I be worried that we be not take the people with we on net zero , because many people simply can not afford this extreme agenda that could end up give China a competitive advantage and bankrupt our own country . order . I remind member that these be topical question . I have to get through they . just because the hon . Gentleman miss out on Question 18 , it do not mean that he can have an extended topical question . let we help each other . thank you , Mr Speaker . my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) highlight the importance of work with the public and business . whereas the shadow Secretary of State sneer at those who be sceptical , we have to win heart and mind . that be why my hon . friend will welcome our " power up Britain " plan to secure our energy system by ensure a resilient and reliable supply , increase our energy efficiency and , crucially , bring down bill . do the former Energy Minister , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , leave because he be worried about lose his seat to Labour at the next election , or because he could no long bear to support the woeful energy policy of this Government ? which one be it ? I direct the hon . gentleman to the letter of my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) . I reiterate our pride in his work and the amazing contribution he have make to this Government and this country . Clayton - le - Moors in my constituency be home to the Lancashire centre for alternative technology , initiate by the Government ' s get building fund . will the Minister agree to visit to see how the centre be provide financial and research and development support to accelerate the commercialisation of low - carbon technology ? I agree that it be incredibly encouraging and exciting to see those development . I would , of course , be delighted to visit my hon . friend in her constituency at any time . Energy Security and Net Zero question have once again prove to I how out of touch this place be with the rest of the country . the poor 40 % of UK household will be make much bad off by net zero policy , accord to a report from York University . the poor in Ashfield will get poor , and rich eco - fanatic like Dale Vince will get rich and pass on some of his million to that lot in the Labour party and just stop oil . can the Minister confirm how much net zero will cost , to the near trillion pound ? I be very proud of what this Government have do to protect the poor in society from rise bill , which be the result of international factor and a volatile gas market . I make it absolutely clear that the only way that Dale Vince , the climate extremist , and his enabler will come anywhere close to have influence on energy policy be if a Labour Government be elect . frankly , that be the only thing that vote Reform will achieve . at my constituency surgery on Friday , I meet representative of the Riddings Lane solar action group who be concerned about the proposal to build a new solar farm cover 145 football field ' worth of land between the village of Gleaston , Dendron , Leece and Newbiggin . do the Minister agree that solar farm be great but should not go on prime agricultural land ? as my hon . friend be aware , we have a presumption against build on the good and most versatile agricultural land . due to my quasi - judicial role in planning I can not speak to the issue directly , but I be very happy to meet he and , indeed , any representative from his constituency to discuss the project in question . I have be contact by a popular village pub that be struggle with its energy debt and astronomical energy bill . such pub be at the heart of our local community and they be close at an alarming rate . will the Secretary of State consider measure to enable they to manage their historical debt by allow they to pay it off more slowly , or support they in another way so that we can keep these important pub open ? I could not agree more that these pub be at the heart of our community , which be one reason why I have regular meeting with ukhospitality to think about how we can look at bill , include thing such as blend and extend . on Ynys M ô n , company such as Mona Lifting in Llangefni , support by the Green Digital Academy , which have be fund by £ 2 . 7 million from the community renewal fund , be work hard to use their business to help to deliver net zero with the installation of solar panel and charge point . do the Minister agree that it be thank to the UK Government that innovative , forward - think company such as Mona Lifting be lead the way so we can deliver net zero ? my hon . friend once again champion her constituency , work with business so that in conjunction we can drive up our use of renewable . it be thank to this Government that we change the planning rule to make it easy to set up large - scale solar installation . I also welcome household play their part , with 17 , 000 solar - panel installation a month last year . I call rupa Huq . thank you , and big hug , Mr Speaker , for the loss of your father . my constituent Joe Stean do the right thing and switch the family car to electric , but now the cost and lack of charge point have put he into fuel poverty . what be the Government do to encourage charge option for people who do not live in detach home ? be it true that the new Minister vote against the zero - emission vehicle mandate ? it be an important point . as a proud electric car driver , I have concern that not all people have equal access to charging , which I have on the driveway to my house . I be therefore thrilled when the Government manage to deliver a 50 % increase in ev charging point in the last year alone . energy security be national security , and food security be national security . up and down the country there be plenty of rooftop , residential , industrial and agricultural , that be suitable for solar panel . will my hon . friend the Minister reassure the country that we will prioritise those site for our solar footprint , rather than jeopardise prime food - produce land or , indeed , our precious greenbelt ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . food security and energy security be both vital , which be why the UK solar taskforce identify the need to address barrier relate to rooftop solar deployment , include access to finance as a priority . the rooftop subgroup be establish to focus specifically on this area , and we be explore option to facilitate low - cost finance from retail lender to help household and business with the up - front cost of solar installation on rooftop . smart meter be vital to help family to cut bill and save money on their energy outlay , yet the Government ' s own figure show that 4 million smart meter be faulty . be that not another catastrophic failure ? when be the Secretary of State go to get a grip on the issue ? clearly this be an issue that concern we in the Government , which be why we be strive to do everything that we can to make sure that we be solve the issue . the giant pylon — they be absolutely huge — associate with the transmission route have cause grave concern in the highland . can I have an assurance that strong consideration will be give to undergrounde the cable near the community that be affect and , indeed , to go under the ocean where that be possible ? while the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) heckle to say that there be yet another nimby , we recognise that we want to work with community and respect local knowledge to inform present and future work . all transmission project be require to progress through the robust planning process , which include statutory consultation and individual planning review , and I be sure that the hon . Member will feed into that directly . forty per cent . of property in this country do not even have an energy performance certificate , and of those that do in the private rented sector , and in the private ownership sector , only 30 % be EPC C rate . last year , we make an improvement of only 1 % on this . EPC C be the standard , so when do the Minister expect that we will ever get to 100 % EPC c in our housing stock , and what be the Government do to increase the speed of the process ? the pace of delivery of the great british insulation scheme be accelerate quickly , with the rate of delivery double over the past three month . we have a proud record on energy efficiency . in 2010 , we inherit a situation in which only 14 % of home be well insulated , but now we have that figure up to nearly 50 % . rail manufacturing : Job Losses ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Transport if he will make a statement on step be take to prevent job loss in the UK ' s rail manufacturing sector . Mr Speaker , before I start , may I thank you for have I up in your constituency of Chorley over the Easter holiday ? I pass on my deep condolence to you and your family for the loss of your father . I thank the hon . Lady for her urgent question . I be respond on behalf of the Secretary of State , who will shortly be meet the Alstom group chairman and chief executive to discuss a potential way forward . the Secretary of State will come to the House and make a statement at the appropriate time , note the fact that they be sensitive commercial discussion . as set out in the comprehensive open letter from the Secretary of State to the hon . Lady on 29 March , the Government be well aware that company such as Alstom and Hitachi face short - term gap in their order book . the letter set out clearly that these be complex problem to which there be not simple solution , but the Government have be do everything they can to support the workforce over many month , and continue to do so . while Alstom be currently consult its union and employee on possible job loss , this must be a commercial decision for Alstom . the Government have be work with the company to explore option to enable it to continue manufacture at its Derby site . we have convene a cross - whitehall group to advise on how to support continued production at Derby and how good to support those worker who be at risk of redundancy . we have hold similar discussion with Hitachi , both in correspondence and face to face . we remain keen to work with Hitachi as it look for commercial solution to guarantee the long - term sustainable future of its Newton Aycliffe site . Hitachi be not currently consult on any change to its workforce . the fact remain that the market for passenger train be a competitive one . the Department can not guarantee order for individual manufacturer . train be major asset with a lifetime of 35 to 40 year , so there will naturally be peak and trough in the procurement cycle . nevertheless , we expect substantial continued demand for new train . in recent month , London North Eastern Railway confirm an order of 10 new tri - mode train for the east coast main line . a tender for new train for TransPennine Express be launch in December 2023 . in January this year , I write to train manufacturer to outline the pipeline of current and expect order for new train . that include detail of current competition for northern , southeastern , Chiltern and TransPennine Express , and an expect procurement by great Western Railway . the contract be worth an estimate £ 3 . 6 billion , with more than 2 , 000 vehicle to be procure over the come year . in the meantime , we will continue to work with UK manufacturer , include Alstom and Hitachi , to ensure that there be a strong and sustainable future for the rail industry . may I add my personal condolence to you , Mr Speaker , for the loss of your great father ? he be a fine man and a great champion for Warrington and for worker ’ right . Britain ' s rail manufacturing be in crisis . two of our large train manufacturer have warn that their very presence in this country be at risk . Alstom , in Derby , be stare down the barrel of 1 , 300 job loss , and Hitachi , in Newton Aycliffe , another 700 . in their supply chain , it be more than 16 , 000 job . Alstom have be make train in Derby for 147 year , but both Alstom and Hitachi be clear that their uncertain future be thank to this Government ' s inaction . Alstom ' s manage director have say that " continue delay " in provide " certainty and clarity " from the Transport Secretary be to blame . the fact be that the Secretary of State have know about this problem for month . I first raise Hitachi ' s concern with he in this House more than a year ago . both manufacturer have say that the situation could be rectify by amend their order schedule for a small number of exist , privately finance train , and we understand that the Transport Secretary have be privately promise they action on that for month . but crucial deadline have be miss , avoidable job loss have already be make and local business have already be force to close . the Minister dismiss people ' s livelihood as " peak and trough " . in his letter to I of 29 March , the Transport Secretary , as usual , duck all responsibility . he claim that he have no influence over procurement contract , yet his Department have varied contract in the past . he claim that this be nothing to do with his mismanagement of HS2 , but both struggle manufacturer claim otherwise . he claim that he be provide certainty for the industry , yet he be refuse to bring forward his long - delay rail reform , or set out a rolling stock strategy for the industry . Britain be the country that create the railway , but that legacy be be trash by a Conservative Government content to oversee its manage decline . will the Minister and the Secretary of State finally take responsibility , put aside their ideological opposition to support british business , and finally step up for the people of Derby and Newton Aycliffe and for Britain ' s railway ? the hon . Lady ask whether the Secretary of State will take responsibility and work on this matter . he be do that right now . he be about to start a meeting with the chief executive and chairman . and that be not the first meeting : he have hold eight meeting with Alstom and eight with Hitachi to find solution . our official in the Department for Transport have work incredibly hard , as have everybody in the whole Derby family — the train operator , the union that I have meet and the workforce . we be all row together to try to find a solution . I have to say that it do not help to see this cause be use almost like a political football . as an example , I do not use the expression " peak and trough " when it come to deal with individual . I say that the procurement cycle lead to that . my word will be clear in Hansard , and I resent have they misinterpret , because it impact on people and their feeling . I find it quite irresponsible of the Opposition to do that . another example of get the fact completely wrong be the continued mention of HS2 . let I be clear : the order for HS2 be for 54 train . that order remain at 54 train , because they be always for phase 1 , which be go ahead . the schedule remain the same and the number of train remain the same , so let we deal with the fact rather than the fiction and scaremongere that I hear so often . when it come to fact , let I say that three of the four train manufacturer we be proud to have in this country have be build their plant here since 2010 , under this Conservative Government . no doubt they decide to do so because we have commission 8 , 000 new rolling stock vehicle since 2012 . the average age of roll stock be 21 year back in 2016 ; it be now under 17 year , because we be invest in roll stock , and there will be more order . none the less , it be a complex legal solution that require sensible mind , and I be very proud that the Secretary of State be lead on that endeavour . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . I be pleased that the Secretary of State and the Minister be take charge of negotiation with Alstom , Hitachi and other . I appreciate that as commercially sensitive discussion be ongoing , the Minister be constrain in what he can say , but they need to be resolve soon . the wide issue be the peak and trough not just in roll stock procurement , but in railway industry investment more generally . how do the Minister believe great British Railways and wide rail reform will help to smooth out the peak and trough in the long term ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his work . the Committee as a whole have look at this issue and really probe for solution . on the GBR point , it be also provide the body of pre - legislative scrutiny of rail reform , and I thank my hon . friend and his Committee for their work in that endeavour . he be absolutely right that a more holistic approach to the railway , in which track and train be integrate , will help we to make further decision into the future and give more certainty with regard to order . none the less , I have set out the order that have be take over the precede year . the order book be healthy and we will look to get the tender out this year and next for the train operator that I have mention . I call the SNP spokesperson . my condolence to you and your family , Mr Speaker , on the loss of your father . clearly , the news come out of Derby about the precarious nature of Alstom be grim , not just for the worker and the wide economy of Derby , but for everyone involve in the supply chain across the country , include 24 , 000 rail supply job in Scotland . the fact be that this be predict ; we have all know about it for month . these be skilled , well - pay job of the type that we be continually tell the UK be in the market for . do the Minister accept that the stop - start procurement of new roll stock be a direct result of the fragmented and disconnected railway system that have place financialisaton and the Treasury ' s miserly attitude to investment above rail ' s key role in a decarbonise 21st - century society ? why be roll stock leasing company rule the roost rather than straightforward procurement ? how be it possible that the island that invent the modern railway — the 200th anniversary of the Stockton and Darlington railway be next year — could have next to zero train production capacity within a matter of month ? we need a proper rail strategy and integration ; when will that rail reform be put before the House ? again , let we look at the fact . since 2012 , 8 , 000 new rolling stock vehicle have be manufacture — that be out of a total fleet of 15 , 600 , so it be a relatively young fleet . take into account the fact that the fleet tend to last 35 to 40 year , and that it now have an average of 17 year ' service , I hope that the hon . Gentleman will see that there have be a substantial investment in roll stock from the Government — the UK taxpayer — and from private train operator . the hon . Gentleman ask when the legislation for rail reform will be bring forward . I be very keen for that to happen , and it be on its journey right now . the Transport Committee , of which he be a lead member , be provide the pre - legislative scrutiny . I very much hope that the Committee will finish its work in time for the summer recess , give we two month to respond , and that there will be cross - party support in both Houses for what be I believe be sensible legislation that will allow we to deliver rail reform . although Labour be play party politic on this issue , it be really important for Derby and Derbyshire , include for the worker at Alstom and in the supply chain that feed into it . will the Minister confirm that Conservative Members of Parliament have be work with the Secretary of State over the whole period , and that he have be work with Alstom for many , many month to get this right ? I thank my hon . friend the Members for Mid Derbyshire ( Mrs Latham ) and for Derby North ( Amanda Solloway ) for the amount of work that they have put in to press we , privately but firmly , to ensure that we be work on this issue , give their concern as constituency MPs . I could not credit they enough for the amount of work that have go in on their side , and for do it sensibly — and that include those in Derby council , to whom we be grateful . I believe that this be the way to approach the matter . the number of meeting that we have have , the cross - departmental taskforce that be in place and the sheer number of hour that the official have put in have all lead we to a point where we very much hope to be able to provide a solution . the matter be complex — there be legal challenge and these type of contract often end up in litigation , so we have to be careful with the process — but we be keen to find that solution . I thank my hon . friend for their work . I be disappointed and sorry to hear what the hon . member for Mid Derbyshire ( Mrs Latham ) just say , because , as she know perfectly well , there have be a substantial amount of cross - party work on this issue over many month and year . give that the factory be in my constituency , I find it a little disappointing that , although I be tell that there have be many meeting between the Secretary of State and local conservative member , at no point have he or his office choose to involve I . however , that do not matter at all ; what really matter — and what I find most difficult about this whole issue — be that , over the year that I have be in this House , we have have so many of these conversation about fail industry . we ask what be the prospect for the future , and there be a struggle and , as always , an argument between those who want to look to the long term and those who want short - term financial saving . this be not an industry in which that be the problem . in the long term , there will be million of pound ' worth of order for roll stock , because roll stock renewal be need right across the country , as everybody in the rail industry be aware . it be an industry with prospect and an ongoing , realistic vision of secure , high - value and high - reward job , yet one in which government inaction be , I be afraid , put those job at risk , particularly , as be say moment ago on both side of the House , in the supply chain . I thank the right hon . member for the point she have raise . the discussion have be cross - party : the leader of Derby council have work very closely with the Department to try to broker a solution . I will take away her point about meeting ; I do not have that information to hand , but I will ensure she get the meeting she have ask for . the point I be make be that the comment from the Labour Front Bench do not help matter at all . this be a sensitive , commercially and legally challenging situation that we be try to find a way through . we can not find contract just for one train manufacturer : we have four , and it have to be an open process , otherwise the matter end up in court . despite that , we be do everything we can to find the right order for those train manufacturer . as well as the letter I have write to all of the manufacturer , specify the tender pipeline that be to come , the Secretary of State have write to all the entity that finance train operator , make the point that they should bring forward matter that they can see . that will help with refurbishment , as well as new rolling stock . I thank the Rail Minister for the huge level of rail investment go into my constituency . as he know , alongside my hon . friend the Members for Dewsbury ( Mark Eastwood ) and for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) , we secure £ 48 million of levelling - up cash for upgrade on the Penistone line , with station at Honley and Brockholes in my constituency . I thank the Rail Minister for visit Huddersfield railway station last year , and I be pleased to report that a major upgrade , which be part of the £ 11 billion trans - Pennine route upgrade , be under way at that station . once that be complete , there will be major upgrade to Slaithwaite and Marsden station , include disabled access . rail investment be be deliver to my wonderful part of West Yorkshire . I thank my hon . friend ; he be a champion of the railway , and it be an absolute delight to visit he at Huddersfield station and talk about some of those project . of course , his point be completely relevant to the matter before we . the trans - Pennine route upgrade , for which there will be more Government investment than there be for the entirety of Crossrail , allow we to put an order in for TransPennine Express train , so there will be more train manufacture as well as well station , long platform and more resilience . [ interruption . ] I thank that team , which be do a brilliant job , which the Sunday Times have highlight . rather than chuntere , it would be nice if the opposition thank those who deliver railway project to time and on budget . my condolence on your loss , Mr Speaker . I thank you on behalf of the workforce for grant this urgent question , because the situation be become critical . my union , Unite , tell I that there be over 900 people employ on temporary contract at Hitachi in Newton Aycliffe and at Alstom in Derby whose job be already at risk . this be before any formal redundancy occur ; Unite believe that that could happen as soon as June . I be well aware that the Minister know that the industry need a steady stream of order to sustain train manufacturing here in the UK and preserve those vital job in area such as County Durham , where we do not have an abundance of skilled employment , so in all honesty I earnestly ask the Minister to use his good office to persuade the Secretary of State to intervene urgently and ensure a bright future for this vital UK train manufacturing industry . I certainly take that point from my good friend . the hon . Member have work tirelessly for the rail workforce , and I know that he mean everything he say with passion and conviction . I have talk about the situation be a complex one from a legal perspective , and I would take he back to the contract award for HS2 , which go to Alstom and Hitachi . that be challenge in court by Siemens ; the Department succeed on every single point , but that just show how careful we have to be from a legal perspective during the tendering process , because it will end up in litigation . the bad thing would be to hand out contract in a manner that be not legally fair and then find that they be be unpick , which bring fresh uncertainty . instead , we be look at the entire order book to see where we can bring matter forward in the pipeline — matter that Alstom may be work on already . where it be the fair and right thing to do , we be look to see whether we can bring those contract order forward in the pipeline . the situation at Alstom be of great concern to a number of my constituent who work there . however , probably even more of my constituent work in the supply chain , so will my hon . friend reassure I and my constituent that whatever the outcome of today ' s discussion , that supply chain will not be forget ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be talk not just about the job at the manufacture plant in Derby , but about all the job throughout the supply chain . I work really closely with the supply chain and its trade representative — the Railway Industry Association and Railfuture — and I be keen to continue to do so . our work and our endeavour be to try to find a solution , not just for the workforce in Derby work directly for Alstom , but for those who be temporarily employ at Alstom and for the entire supply chain . that be why the Secretary of State be meet Alstom right now , so that we can try to find a solution for they all . the Government ' s inaction in sign off new order for train be now threaten hundred of job in County Durham and wipe million of pound off the value of rail manufacturing company . inadequate supply to our rail infrastructure will have a big impact on decarbonise the UK transport system . be the Minister aware of that , and what be the Government do in the long term to invest in our rail infrastructure ? thank to the UK taxpayer , the Government have invest over £ 100 billion in the railway , and a lot of that investment have go through to roll stock . as I have mention , the rolling stock be now on average under 17 year old , with a life cycle that go to 35 to 40 year . I will give the hon . Lady a good example of where the future be bright : in the area of innovation and technology . great Western have just complete a battery trial for a train that have cover 86 mile , with stop , on just one single charge . my hope be that as well as new order for train , we will find new solution for manufacturing rolling stock that be green than it be right now . my condolence to you , Mr Speaker . many of my constituent be involve in rail manufacturing , both at Hitachi and in the wide supply chain , and be genuinely concerned about the situation . can my hon . friend reassure I and my constituent that this situation be get the full attention of the Secretary of State , and can he outline to the House why the issue be not as simple as the stroke of a pen , as allege by the Labour party ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . he be absolutely right ; this be a complex matter , and it be important that we get it right . we be work with Alstom , with the council , and with all other party . I should just correct the record : I be very happy to take up this issue with the right hon . member for Derby South ( Dame Margaret Beckett ) , but my understanding be that she meet the Secretary of State for an hour on 25 March , which she say she have not . indicate assent . that be correct — good . I be glad I have get that on the record . my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) be absolutely right . this matter be complex and challenging , but I can tell you , Mr Speaker , and the House that the Secretary of State be work at full pelt on this matter with Alstom . I be hopeful that a solution will be find that will demonstrate all of that hard work . Derby ' s Litchurch Lane be unique — the only site in the UK that design , develop , build and test train . as have already be acknowledge , the Alstom factory be a very significant employer , but it also support thousand of good supply - chain job , particularly in Nottinghamshire and derbyshire . frankly , this Government will never be forgive if that factory be allow to close due to an entirely avoidable gap in order . the Minister say that this matter be complex , but my question be simple : when do the Department for Transport intend to issue the invitation to tender for the promise new train fleet for Chiltern , Northern and Southeastern ? the answer be over the course of this year and next year for all of the train manufacturer that the hon . Lady have mention . I well remember the visit that both she and I make to the Alstom site with the Transport Committee . as she rightly say , it be a fantastic site , which be why we be work to find a solution . I be certainly encourage by the conversation that have take place . we know that everyone want to find that solution — the Government certainly do — but the hon . Lady will know from all her work on the Transport Committee that legal challenge have to be deal with in the correct manner . this matter be very sensitive , and it be market sensitive as well , so find a way through which provide certainty and do not get unpicked be absolutely the right thing for we to do , and that be what we be do right now . the threat to the Alstom factory in Derby be of great concern to the employee in Amber Valley and those employ by the supply chain . their mood be not help by the fact that this appear to be a problem not with the quality of the train , or even with their price , but with compliance with procurement rule that we ourselves put in place only a year or so ago . if it come down to a choice between have all the I ' s dotted and t ' s cross , or have that factory save for the long term , can I urge the Minister to take a risk on the contract , sort that out later and save the factory , rather than prioritise the contract and risk lose the factory ? as my hon . friend have describe , this be a careful balance . I reiterate that if we be to award contract outside of the usual process , other workforce would also be impact , such as those in Newport , in Newton Aycliffe and in the Hull area . we have to take into account the whole workforce , as well as fair process on the contract . however , as he mention , train be be manufacture right now and roll off the production line up in Derby — south western train and East Midlands train — and they be good - quality train . as I have say , the challenge be that we have produce a lot of train over the year , and I really want to help those train manufacturer to export more , because that will fill up the order book so that they be not reliant only on the domestic market . as it get fresher and young , in roll stock year , we need to find a solution outside this country . I offer my condolence to you , Mr Speaker . the Minister say this be a complex issue , but be it not rather simple ? these company will not be around to enjoy the sort of export opportunity he talk about if they do not sustain . on his answer to my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , can he just apply his mind to what he say about the invitation to tender ? if it be go to take that long to issue those tender , these company will not be around . it be not about they not compete ; it be about their be able to compete and to be here . can he not recognise that it be the constant chopping and change in procurement that have land the rail industry in this terrible situation ? I do not accept that . when I meet the train manufacturer early this year , they say they want long - term certainty , and the reason for set out what be come up next be to give they that certainly . of course , train manufacturing be go on right now . for example , we have just see the award to CAF for the 10 LNER tri - mode train , so there be manufacturing and contract be be award . I know I be repeat myself , but as the train roll stock get young in age — it have a life of 35 to 40 year , and its average age be now under 17 year — by definition few order tend to go through . however , it be important to have a future pipeline , which be why I mention the order go to tender for this year and next . Hitachi provide opportunity and high - skilled job , benefit people right across the north - east , include a number in my constituency . can my hon . friend confirm that he will continue to look at every possible option to protect these job and the north - east ' s incredible manufacturing capability ? yes , indeed . the team at Hitachi as well as Alstom will of course be work on the HS2 tender for 54 train that will be come their way . I be very keen to meet they , and I meet Hitachi yesterday — albeit a different arm that be more on the signal side . I be keen to work with the private sector . we be very proud of the train manufacturer we have in this country , and we want to ensure that they sustain and continue to get contract , and not only from this country but , as I have mention , for export . I really want to see export , which be why I tend to go abroad to help champion export in such market . in 1823 , Robert Stephenson and Company set up the world ' s first locomotive factory in my constituency . be the conservative idea of an anniversary present to the north - east to end 200 year of railway manufacturing and innovation ? the Minister have say this be complex and challenging , but for the sake of Hitachi worker and for our entire region , will he commit to the future of railway manufacturing in the north - east ? these be private sector company . they of course rely on government - fund contract , but ultimately they be private sector company , and this be a matter for they . our job be to support they , and I have describe the order book we have put through since 2012 . of course , any Government or Government in wait actually have to follow the correct process with our official and to do thing properly , and it be rather tell that the opposition do not seem to know how proper governance operate . I would just remind the hon . member that , since 2010 , three of our four train manufacturer have build their plant under a Conservative Government , because they know that this Government be good for business and invest in the railway , as the £ 100 billion invest since 2010 demonstrate . my constituency incorporate the Newton Aycliffe Hitachi factory . as have be mention , it be the home of the railway — 200 year ago , the first train go on the line just next to the site of the Hitachi factory . we be found in railway , we want to be in railway , and we always will be in railway . however , the opposition be treat this as a political football , as the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) have just do . everybody be say that this be so simple and can be do at the stroke of a pen . it could not be do at the stroke of a pen when Nexus have the same situation in Newcastle . [ interruption . ] no , it be not , and the Opposition have the pen then . right here and right now , I be very concerned about what be happen with Hitachi , as I obviously be about Alstom and the supply chain . I have meet the union — I have meet Unite several time — and I will continue to do so . it be important that we be all engage in this properly , and confidentially where appropriate . I have be completely irritated by the number of time the Opposition have say that the Government be not engage . for most of the time I have be engage confidentially , as Hitachi have ask . everybody , include the Prime Minister , have be to Hitachi to understand what exactly the situation be . what we need now be for the union to be engage and for Hitachi to use all its innovation and skill . can I ask the Minister to ensure that he be fully engage , and will he explain to the opposition why , if this be so easy , we would not just do it ? I thank my hon . friend because — as he put it himself , but he be be too modest — he be work with we constantly to ensure that Hitachi ' s concern be address . we have meet Hitachi a number of time . we have great faith in its leadership , and we work closely with they . it be not consult on any change to the workforce at the moment . as I have mention , it have a share in the order for the 54 hs2 train . he be absolutely right that the way we will fix these issue be to provide certainty through the tender come forward , to continue to invest , to try to get more export for these train operation , and to work together in a collegiate way , not with scare story . that be something I be determined to do , and I thank he for the work he do to that end . this be political , because this Government have get form in fail industry in the north - east . they abandon primary steel making on Teesside , they fail to back local investor in the Sirius mine and they allow the world - renowne Cleveland Bridge & Engineering Co . to collapse , despite promise to save it . now they be at it again , and this time it will affect countless people from my constituency , which be the home of the first passenger railway . in a statement make just an hour ago , Hitachi have say it want to continue to explore solution so that the skill and investment it have in the region be retain . there be no doubt that these be at considerable risk . be the Minister really prepare to fail Hitachi , and provide yet another example of how the Tories have abandon the north - east ? the hon . member ' s argument be slightly puncture by the fact that Hitachi build its plant after the Conservative Government come to power , because it understand that we support business , attract business and want they to succeed not only with domestic order , but with export order . to say that we be abandon it , when I have just describe how we have have 8 , 000 new rolling stock vehicle produce since 2012 and the average age have go down from 21 year to 16 . 8 year , rather demonstrate that he do not know what he be talk about . my hon . friend be absolutely right that this be a complex scenario , but there really be no need for we to be in one of the trough in the supply chain at the moment . Chiltern Railways have massive overcrowding because its stock be the old fleet , and it be desperate for more train on the network . we also have East West Rail about to launch with borrow diesel train , rather than the new hybrid or hydrogen train that be fit for the modern age . as my hon . friend look at what can be bring forward , will he prioritise Chiltern and prioritise get the train that people want to see on East West Rail ? I know that my hon . friend , who be another excellent member of the Transport Committee , have write to the Secretary of State , and we be line up a meeting to discuss Chiltern ' s roll stock . he know I be very keen to find a solution with some rolling stock that be available , and I be look to take that forward . he ask about the situation with East West Rail . the consultation will go forward this summer . I have refer to the testing of a battery - power train that go for 86 mile , and I believe the route from Oxford to Cambridge be 84 mile , which suggest that could be an answer to the point he rightly make . I have be chair of the all - party group on manufacturing for some time , I work in manufacturing at one stage , and I represent the fine manufacturing town of Huddersfield — despite other claim in this House , I be the Member of Parliament for Huddersfield . but this be about job loss and be the Minister aware that under this government , since 2010 , the manufacturing sector in our country have be shrink and shrink ? now , less than 10 % of people in this country make anything . that be a dire situation , and we see it not only in rail but in defence . the town I represent make the engine for tank , gun , ship and all of that sort of stuff , but they do not get the order in time . the fact of the matter be that all our wonderful manufacturing town and city be in peril under this Government . what be the Minister go to do about it ? that be the same Huddersfield that I visit with the team from the trans - Pennine route upgrade . we be invest between £ 9 billion and £ 11 . 5 billion in upgrade that route , which not only will make it well for rail passenger , but will provide thousand of job , the bulk of they from the local workforce , of which the trans - Pennine route upgrade team be very proud . that rather demonstrate that what the hon . Member have just state be not back up by the fact . during the pandemic the Government rightly step in to support train operating company through huge subsidy , which essentially mean subsidise the profit of those company . the Minister will also know that since British Rail be privatised , the rosco — roll stock company — have be highly profitable and lucrative business , in my view with very little value for the taxpayer whatsoever . will the Minister therefore consider two thing : first , in this situation with Hitachi and Alstom , seriously consider direct government intervention to stop these company go to the wall before they can get the next order in ; and secondly , urgently convene a meeting of local business in both those area with all the rail union , from Unite to the Transport Salaried Staffs Association , ASLEF , and the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers , bring they together to discuss how we jointly work together to make sure that our brilliant and long - hold and highly skilled workforce be not just throw on the scrapheap for decade to come ? a lot of the finance I talk about and the order that have be bring forward , which be why we have a relatively young fleet , be the result of train operator be able to use their own balance sheet in order to invest . rail finance be back to only about 80 % of where they be pre - covid because of change in work pattern ; that have be more of a challenge , which be why the Government and the taxpayer take on more of the burden . on meeting with the union , I should reference the meeting I have with union representative from Alstom and the workforce , who be superb . they want to do their business in a sensible , calm way while also challenge , and rightly so . that provide we with the motivation to try to intervene and deliver a solution , and that be what the Secretary of State be do right now . the potential loss of job at Hitachi will hit the north - east economy as a whole , and it be vital that we maintain rail manufacturing capability there . what be the Government go to do to ensure that we do not lose that facility because of a gap in order ? what will they do to ensure that do not happen and to save those job ? it be important to note that Hitachi be not currently consult on any change in the workforce , but it be of course concern and it speak to hon . member in this place to put those concern across , and I welcome that approach . where train operator have roll stock that be old and need renew , we be put they out to market — those operator be TransPennine , northern , Southeastern and Chiltern . bring those order through will assist , but I come back to the export part of this : if our fleet be get young , mean there will not be as many order , we really need to see our four great manufacturer be able to export more abroad to deliver for UK plc . what further discussion be the Minister and Secretary of State go to have with the manufacturing and rail union on this matter ? as I have already state , I have meet the Alstom union myself — I be always very happy to meet the union , as indeed be necessary . at the moment , however , our work be with Derby City Council and , more importantly , with Alstom , which ultimately will make the decision . it be a private operator and it will be a decision for Alstom , but we want to show what we can do to help with order and other assistance . we have be work across Government to provide that reassurance so that we can work towards Alstom not only keep the plant but invest far in it and bring more of its enterprise into the UK . I thank the Minister for his answer ; I do not think anybody in the House could doubt his commitment or that of the Government to improve thing , and we thank they for that . what be the Government ' s strategy for support manufacture company throughout the United Kingdom to make improvement to attract business and sustain contract ? will the Government commit to ensure that all Government contract be fulfil with british - manufacture product as standard , in order to give confidence to investment in british manufacturing ? I thank the hon . member , who always put his point with great kindness and consideration — as a result , he make well point than some that get chuck around here . I can assure he that I have write to the train manufacturer , meet with they and listen to they , and they have say that they want certainty and to know what the pipeline be . we have be work with the Treasury to bring that pipeline forward . the Secretary of State ' s letter add another angle : what we be do there be write to the rosco to finance train refurbishment and see if those can be bring forward . so we be do everything we can from our side — within the difficult legal and commercial situation we find ourselves in — to do thing correctly , to bring those order through , and to give more certainty so that those company will continue to invest in the UK . Horticultural Peat : prohibition of Sale Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide for the prohibition of the sale in England of horticultural peat by the end of 2024 ; to provide for certain exemption from that prohibition ; and for connected purpose . Peatlands be the UK ' s large carbon store . they contain more carbon than the forest of the UK , France and Germany combine and be home to some of our most iconic and rarest wildlife , such as the bittern , the swallowtail butterfly , the short - eared owl and the hen harri , but less than 20 % of our peatland be in a near - natural state : 87 % of England ' s deep peat area be degrade , damage or dry out . this be cause by a range of factor include overgrazing and drainage for agriculture as well as extraction for compost and other grow medium for gardening and horticulture . extraction degrade the state of the wide landscape , damage wildlife habitat and reduce peat ' s capacity to prevent flooding and filter water . and of course extraction mean that store carbon be release , contribute to climate change . the Bill would implement the 2022 commitment make by the Government to prohibit the use of peat product in amateur gardening in England by the end of the year . in 2011 the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs announce support for phase out peat product with a commitment to legislate if a voluntary approach prove to be ineffective . the Government ' s 2021 consultation receive more than 5 , 000 response , 95 % of which support a ban on retail peat sale . the Royal Horticultural Society have back a ban , and Professor Alistair Griffiths , its director of science and collection , say in 2022 : " Peatlands be the world ' s large carbon store on land , with great potential to store carbon long term , help to reach net zero … to tackle the climate and biodiversity crisis , it be essential that we have a sustainable transition to peat - free alternative grow media . the RHS stop sell peat - base grow medium bag in 2019 and will continue to work with DEFRA , industry and gardener to accelerate the transition to peat - free . " we take pride in be a gardening nation and the covid lockdown trigger increase enthusiasm for this great outdoor activity . there have already be a big shift to non - peat compost product thank to the effort of the horticulture industry , DEFRA Ministers , campaigner such as Monty Don , and responsible choice make by gardener . however , peat can still lurk in gardening product , such as potted house plant and tray of bed plant . the presence of peat in these product be rarely label , mean even the most ecologically committed gardener may not know it be there . even the most effective information campaign can only go so far in change behaviour . gardener should be able to buy from a garden centre without fear that their purchase will harm the environment elsewhere . there be now reasonably price peat - free compost use material such as bark , coir and bracken . thank to a decision by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , solid digestate from anaerobic digestion will soon become another source of peat - free grow medium . peat alternative for product such as potted plant be also available . company such as B & Q have go peat - free , as have Kew garden , and the Royal Horticultural Society be 98 % of the way there . the consumer organisation which ? exclude peat - base compost from its product comparison . while it acknowledge that some peat - free product cost more , it believe that there be now a good range of low - cost option on the market . the horticulture industry have have since 2011 to prepare for the phase - out of peat . thirteen year on , some real progress have be make . peat use more than halve between 2020 and the end of 2022 , include a reduction of nearly 70 % in the amateur sector . in 2022 , professional use of peat fall below 50 % of their total consumption of grow medium for the first time , but UK horticulture still use 950 , 000 cubic metre of peat in 2022 , include 471 , 000 cubic metre in the retail sector . I acknowledge that only a comparatively small proportion of the UK ' s peat be affect by extraction for horticultural product , but by target the demand for peat , we can help keep it in the ground both here and overseas , prevent the damaging release of carbon . as well as an immediate ban on peat product for retail use by the general public , the Bill would give Ministers the power to use secondary legislation to extend that ban to professional horticulture on a future date . that reflect the fact that there be still barrier to be overcome before we can be confident that reasonably price peat - free product and production material be available for the professional sector . however , we need progress there , too , and I urge the Government to press ahead with a clear timetable for the full transition to peat - free product across the horticulture sector . limited exception to the ban will be need , some of which may need to be permanent , such as in relation to science and research and rare plant , but the 2030 target have be on the table for more than a decade . I call on the industry and the government to ensure that meaningful change be deliver by the time we reach that 2030 milestone so that UK horticulture move into its peat - free future and we seize the opportunity to become a global leader in the supply of sustainable compost and grow medium . the Bill should be just one part of a wide strategy to achieve the Government ' s ambitious target to restore 35 , 000 hectare of peat by the end of 2025 . the United Kingdom be custodian of 3 million hectare of peatland habitat . that include 13 % of the world ' s blanket bog , which be a globally rare ecosystem protect by international treaty , one example of which I be pleased to visit in County Fermanagh in 2014 . More money be be invest in peat protection and restoration than ever before . grower can apply for funding for the equipment they need to transition away from peat . defra ' S 2021 peatland action plan be back by £ 50 million from the Nature for Climate Fund . I be pleased to secure a commitment to that fund in the 2019 conservative manifesto . work have be take place on project such as the great north bog and at Rookhope in the North Pennines , which I visit on a bitterly cold , windy day back in 2020 with the local MP , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) . perhaps even more significant than that commitment be the fact that the farm support under England ' s new environmental land management scheme embrace peatland restoration , with the potential for a major long - term flow of funding for this vital task stretch into the future . Peat not only play a vital environmental role in our distinctive island habitat , but be part of Britain ' s identity , history and culture . landscape ecological planner Jennifer Dowdell describe it as " a grand encyclopaedia , a storehouse of pollen that can help we understand our ecological history and the change climate " . peat ' s miraculous capacity to preserve organic material have mean that it can offer up evidence of the gruesome practice of our ancestor , when so - call bog body be discover thousand of year after these man and woman meet a grisly end . Seamus Heaney be just one of several poet and writer to reflect on the deep rich peatland earth of these island . remove peat from amateur gardening give the House the opportunity to recognise the value of that cultural and ecological heritage ; to take active and practical step to protect and restore precious natural habitat ; and to take we close to our goal of reach net zero and prevent disastrous climate change . I commend this Bill to the House . I do not object to the right of my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) to bring in the Bill , but I put it on record that it will not go unopposed . much of the content of the Bill that she describe seem disproportionate , not base on science or fact and another exercise in gesture politic . this should be remember as another day when the banner seem to want to get out there to destroy other people ' s legitimate activity . I put in a plea on behalf of amateur and professional horticulturalist . those who have be to plant centre over the past year or so will have notice that the move to peat - free product have result in the quality of those product decline significantly . plant longevity have decline , because they do not have the natural water retention in their pot that be provide by peat , and it can not be replace by peat substitute . the consequence be that it be become increasingly difficult for our domestic horticultural industry to cope with the pressure to reduce peat consumption . by contrast , almost all our product come through garden centre and be plant out in garden and flower box across the country come from the Netherlands . what be the Netherlands do about peat ? the late figure that I have be able to ascertain show that in 2020 , the Netherlands import 2 , 156 , 000 , 000 kg of peat . some 44 . 5 % of that come from Germany , 9 . 5 % from Estonia , 9 . 2 % from Latvia , 7 % or so from Lithuania and 5 % from Belgium . what happen to that peat ? it be then put with plant that be export to country such as the United Kingdom , thereby create an unfair advantage compare with our homegrown industry . my right hon . friend seem to want to go beyond the voluntary approach and to ban professional horticulturalist in this country from use peat in the production of plant , thereby facilitate even great unfair competition from the Dutch . what proportion of peat be use in horticulture ? it be a very small proportion . I be tell that about 95 % of the peat consume in the world be use for peat fire , be put into domestic boiler and mega - incinerator or be a substitute for coal or even natural gas . I concede that that use of peat be extremely dirty , but why be we concentrate on just one particular niche industry in our country — horticulture — and ignore the much large problem of the burning of peat for fuel ? this morning , I look up whether it would be possible to buy peat for fuel in this country and find a company offer to provide I with a pallet of 30 25 kg bag of peat for £ 235 . if we can buy peat for fuel , why be we try to concentrate on ban peat in horticulture , where there be no real substitute ? some people talk about coir as be a substitute , but the production of coir be carry out mainly in the far east , particularly in Sri Lanka . that coir have to be wash and desalt before it can be prepare for horticultural use , and it then have to be transport halfway across the world . that be not an ecologically friendly way of produce a peat substitute . the noble Lord Benyon , who deal with these issue in the other place , be spot on when , in a debate last year , in answer to a question from Baroness Humphreys , who be concern about the lack of a level playing field for EU import , he say : " the noble Baroness ask a very important question . we could act unilaterally , which would result in the export of job , skill and benefit to our economy to country which be not bring in measure as rigorous as we be . we want to ensure that we be operate this in the same way as we buy timber , where we recognise the impact we be have globally as well as nationally . we be see a massive reduction in the use of peat , and we want to see it end . we have set forth a clear timetable for that to happen . the target of 2026 , with certain exemption , will mean that there will be a tiny amount leave which will continue to be use . that will maintain some key area of our food security , such as mushroom production . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 9 May 2023 ; Vol . 829 , c . 1664 . ] he could have add blueberry production . Peat be very acidic , Mr Deputy Speaker , and if you try grow blueberry in non - acidic soil , you will find that they die quickly . the noble Lord Benyon go on to say , in answer to Lord Curry of Kirkharle , that " in every policy area , there be an unintended consequence unless we fully consider it . in produce alternative medium , there be sometimes a cost to the environment . if we be buy coir from abroad , what impact be that have on some very vulnerable part of the world ? there be many other grow medium with which we have to ensure that , in our determination to protect our remain peatland , we be not export the problem and cause problem far afield . it be a very difficult issue , as the noble Lord rightly raise , and I assure he that we be all across this subject . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 9 May 2023 ; Vol . 829 , c . 1665 . ] I be concerned that we will not be all across the subject if the Bill , as propose by my right hon . friend , go through unopposed . we need to ensure that any legislation on peat be balanced and proportionate and take into proper account the need of our home - grow horticultural industry . question put and agree to . order , that Theresa Villiers , Selaine Saxby , Chris Grayling , Miss Sarah Dines , Robin Millar , Andrew Selous , Dr Th é r è se Coffey , Tim Loughton , Tracey Crouch , Sally - Ann Hart , Trudy Harrison and Siobhan Baillie present the Bill . Theresa Villiers accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 26 April , and to be print ( Bill 199 ) . Tobacco and Vapes Bill Second read [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Health and Social Care Committee on 5 February and 6 February 2024 ( Q391 - 412 ) , on Prevention in health and social care , HC 141 ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . before I start , I should declare an interest : before I be elect to Parliament , I use to prosecute serious and organised crime , include organise crime gang who attempt to import illicit cigarette . for a moment , I would like we to imagine that we be not in this historic and magnificent Chamber but instead stand at the entrance of a local hospital . a patient come through the door , struggle to breathe ; smoking send their asthma spiral out of control . a minute later , another patient pass by ; smoking cause the heart disease that they be battle . a minute later , another person come in , and then another . that vicious cycle repeat itself nearly every minute of every day in our national health system , because here in the United Kingdom almost one hospital admission a minute be the human cost of smoking . smoking leave people with premature dementia . it put they in care , attach to oxygen , for the rest of their life . it increase the risk of stillbirth by almost 50 % . it be responsible for 75 , 000 gp appointment every month , and it take about 80 , 000 life every year . I urge everyone who have come to the debate to go to a respiratory ward — I serve on one for a year in my first junior doctor role — to watch people gasp for breath , struggle and fight , with their relative ask you as a doctor to do something and you simply can not . if the Bill be a step forward in stop that situation , I be very much in favour of the Secretary of State take it forward . I thank my hon . friend for bring to the Chamber his professional experience and the real - life consequence for his patient . if I may , I will unpack some of the detail behind that invaluable intervention . the premise behind the Bill be exactly as he say — to stop the start — because there be no safe level of smoking and no safe tobacco product . in fact , it be the only product that , if consume as the manufacturer intend , will kill two third of its long - term user . the Bill be not about demonising people who smoke or stop they from buy tobacco if they can do so today . it will not affect current smoker ’ right or entitlement in any way . indeed , we want to help they to quit . we be support they by almost double funding for local stop - smoking service . instead , the Bill be look to the future , to give the next generation the freedom to live long , healthy and more productive life . how do the Secretary of State counter the conservative argument that if we ban something , we massively increase criminality ? I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend . I will genuinely come to that , because I know that that be a concern that colleague have . I will develop my argument , if I may , but I also remind he of my declaration of interest and , believe you I , I have no interest whatsoever in make life easy for smoking gang . that be why as part of the package I will announce further funding and investment for law enforcement agency both at the border and at local level . some have say that it be concern that we be ban thing . I totally understand the concern of fellow conservative . we be not in the habit of ban thing — we do not like that . we will bring these power in only when we be convince — follow a no doubt robust debate , with the intellectual self - confidence that we have on the Government Benches — that there be no liberty in addiction . nicotine robs people of their freedom to choose . the vast majority of smoker start when they be young . three quarter say that if they could turn back the clock , they would not have start . that be why , through the Bill , we be create a smoke - free generation that will guarantee that no one who be turn 15 or young this year will ever be legally sell tobacco , save they from the misery of repeat attempt to give up , make our economy more productive and build an nhs that deliver fast , simple and fair care . it be our responsibility — indeed , our duty — to protect the next generation . that be what the Bill will do . the Secretary of State be right that we should protect the next generation . labour propose the smoke - free generation legislation in January 2023 . we vote to crack down on marketing vape to child in 2021 , but the Tories block it . I welcome this Bill , but do it not show that where labour lead , some conservative follow ? be she not concerned about the number of her colleague , who we see line up in the Chamber , who will vote against this legislation today ? that be a brave submission from the hon . Lady , give the debate in the Chamber yesterday . I certainly will not take lecture from Labour on this legislation . we be bring it forward because we have look carefully at the evidence . what be more , we have temper it so that exist adult smoker will not be affect . if the message from the Labour party be that it want to ban smoking for adult completely , it should make that argument . we have temper this carefully to ensure that it only deal with future generation . I commend my right hon . friend for her approach to young people smoke , her determination to deal with illegal tobacco and her crackdown on vaping , which be a menace to young people as these thing be sell like an item of confectionery . will she accept that in do all those thing , she need to be open minded about how the Bill can be improve ? the idea of a rolling age of consent , with the consequence that someone of 35 will be able to buy tobacco but someone of 34 will not and so on , be at good a curiosity and at bad an absurdity . I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend and close Lincolnshire neighbour . he know that on any piece of legislation I will always want to listen to and do business with colleague . the principle behind this legislation be that these emerge generation will never take up smoking . that be the point . rise — rise — I will just finish this point . we be bring forward this legislation so that we stop the start from 2027 . future generation will not have that addiction to nicotine . let I say from the outset that I completely support this Bill . in Newham , 22 % of sale last year be to under - age child — high than alcohol , knife , firework and so on — and a total of £ 135 , 000 - worth of illicit tobacco product be seize in just six month . will the Secretary of State ensure that council get the resource they need to continue the vital work of keep these product out of the hand of the young ? yes , I can assure the hon . Lady , because the illicit trade be often the great in the most deprived area of the country , and I be about to develop exactly how we will help law enforcement . I very much understand the concern across the House about ensure that the illicit trade do not flourish . have my right hon . Friend see the late statistic that say twice as many schoolchildren smoke cannabis as smoke tobacco ? it be already illegal — for all of we , not just child — to smoke cannabis . if a ban really work , how can she explain those statistic ? how can she show that this ban to stop people who be currently 15 will be different from the anti - drug legislation that we already have ? to be clear , be my right hon . friend suggest that we repeal the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 , under which cannabis be prohibit ? although I have no experience of it , I understand that the consumption of marijuana also involve the consumption of tobacco and cigarette paper . the point be that we be try to move away from the idea that current youngster will be able to buy their cigarette legally in shop from the age of 18 in 2027 , precisely because we want to ensure that they can lead long , healthy life . in a moment I will come to some of the myth that the tobacco industry have put around about the impact of introduce age restriction on cigarette , which will be interesting evidence for those who be concerned about that . first of all , I commend the Secretary of State and the Government for bring forward this legislation . I support it because I believe it be right , but I have be contact by vape group . my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and I meet some last week . they send I a small comment , and I want to ask the Secretary of State a quick question about it , so that we move forward with consistency to try to achieve something . those group refer to the impact assessment report by the Department of Health and Social Care , and say that it fail to consider potentially detrimental effect of restrict vape user and smoker look to switch . I think we all try to be helpful and constructive in our comment in this Chamber , so be constructive , they request a vape retailer and distributor licensing scheme in the Bill . the industry have develop a comprehensive framework for such a scheme , which be design to deal effectively once and for all with underage and illicit vape sale — a situation that could get bad . do the Secretary of State intend to develop a vape retailer and distributor licensing scheme ? I be extremely grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s support . we understand the level of lobbying that have be undertake by both the vaping industry and the tobacco industry . we know that the vaping industry have push that as one of its line . in the current vape market , when walk into a local shop or a newsagent the vape product can be see on sale next to the till , often next to the sweet — the part of the shop that child will be very attract to , if my experience be anything to go by . the industry market they in very cynical way . we be say that it be already unlawful to sell vape to under - 18 , but we want to take the power in this legislation to consult on flavour , design and so on , to ensure that vape be sell as they be intend — to help adult smoker to quit , because no child should ever vape . rise — I be go to make a little progress , if I may , because I want to come to the age of sale . on the point raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Sir Jake Berry ) about the age of sale and the black market , tobacco industry representative claim that there will be unintended consequence from raise the age of sale . they assert that the black market will boom . before the smoking age be increase from 16 to 18 , they sing from the same hymn sheet , but the fact show otherwise . the number of illicit cigarette consume fall by 25 % , and smoking rate for 16 and 17 - year - old drop by almost a third . consumption of illegal tobacco plummet from 17 billion cigarette in 2000 - 01 to 3 billion cigarette in 2022 - 23 . that be despite the further control that this House have put in place in the meantime . our modelling suggest that the measure in this Bill will reduce smoking rate among 14 to 30 - year - old in England to close to zero as soon as 2040 . I hope that many of we in the Chamber today will still be here in 2040 . this be our opportunity to play that part in history . thank to constructive engagement with colleague across the devolved Administrations , the measure will apply not just in England but across our entire United Kingdom , save life and build a bright future . have listen carefully to colleague ' concern about enforcement , we be make sure that local authority will be able to keep every penny of the fix penalty they bring in to reinvest in rigorous enforcement . in other word , we be look not just at national enforcement , but at help our very important and valuable local trading enforcement officer to keep the proceed from the fix penalty they hand out . do my right hon . friend agree that , largely , the Bill will not affect people in this House but young people , and that it be therefore incredibly important to listen to their voice on this issue ? with that in mind , I write to every secondary school in my constituency to ask young people their view . the majority of young people in Chelmsford , when ask for their view , say they would support the measure in the Bill . it be not unanimous , but we work by majority . give that it affect they and not I , I will be respect their view when I vote today . I thank my right hon . friend . yet again , she remind we what a brilliant local constituency MP she be . she have draw out the voice of young people . when I pose question about our NHS and the future I want to build for it — reform it to make it fast , simple and fair — one thing I think about be the voice of young people . if they be in work pay their taxis , they be pay for our NHS at this moment and they will be the user of it in the future . part of my role as Health Secretary be to ensure that it have a sustainable funding model , that we be do everything we can to increase productivity , and that we move the demand curve so that it celebrate its next 75 year . I thank the Secretary of State for give way . she know that I take a particular interest in the impact of retail crime . the British Retail Consortium indicate that there be about 1 , 300 act of violence against shopkeeper across the UK daily . it have be suggest that one of the big trigger of attack on shopkeeper be ask for proof of age . what additional resource can be put in to assist retailer and ensure they be protect from attack ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very fair point . interestingly , the late survey of retailer show — I think I be right in say it — that the majority of retailer support this policy , but he know just how carefully the Government have listen to the concern of retailer . my hon . friend the Member for Stockton South ( Matt Vickers ) have lead a relentless campaign on this issue , and I be really pleased that the Home Secretary be able to announce in recent week a specific crime relate to violence against retail worker . I smoke until 30 year ago and it be a very hard business to stop the evil weed . I come from a completely different era and I be consider something of a dinosaur . [ hon . member : " never ! " ] but I do still hope to be here in 2040 . I wish to God that vape have be around when I be go through the process of stop smoking . do we not need to be very careful that the Bill do not throw the baby out with the bathwater and stop help people come off the evil weed ? first of all , I completely reject my hon . friend ' s suggestion that he be a dinosaur . he bring a great energy and effervescence into the Chamber — or indeed any social situation . he articulate really well the struggle of addiction to nicotine and how tough it can be to give up . that be not a judgment on anyone ; the substance be design to addict . that be how the sale pitch be make . what we be try to do be stop child be ensnare in that way . he be also right that at the moment the evidence suggest that vaping be a good way to help exist smoker to quit . if you do not smoke , please do not vape . certainly , child should never vape . what we have try to do with the Bill be build a balance in , so we be take power to look at packaging , flavour and so on . there will be a thorough consultation before any regulation be set , because we want to ensure that we be help adult to quit , but in a way that be consider and well design . I be extremely grateful to he for raise that point . I be listen very carefully to what my right hon . friend be say . she outline how the consumption of cigarette have collapse over the last couple of decade , and my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) talk about how the young people she reach out to do not want to smoke any more . be that not the heart of the matter ? that be why I think the Bill be fundamentally wrong and misguided . young people be not smoke . it be not cool to smoke . the Bill should be focus more on the vape side of thing : illegal vape , supercharge vape , the colour and flavour of vape . we be debate cigarette , which be naturally go out of existence anyway , rather than focus on the dangerous vape that be addictive for young child . that be where the Government should put their focus , rather than waste time talk about something that be die out anyway . sadly — I say this genuinely — there be nothing inevitable about a decrease in smoking rate . indeed , in 2020 the United States see the first increase in tobacco sale in 20 year , and in Australia in 2022 the proportion of teenager smoke increase for the first time in 25 year . I be remind by a Minister that here in the United Kingdom 100 , 000 child and young people take up smoking every year . we must not be lull into a sense of inevitability and security , mindful as I be of how very clever the tobacco industry be at lobby its message because we be threaten its business model . as conservative , we must take into account that this be happen today , so we must ensure we tackle it head on . I thank my right hon . friend for give way . she be make a very important point about young people and child smoke today . it be not just about cigarette . Shisha smoking , in particular in Westminster , Marylebone and Edgware Road in my constituency , have become very fashionable for young people . an hour of smoking shisha equate to 100 to 200 cigarette within an hour . will she confirm that shisha tobacco will be include in the Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for bring the City of Westminster right into the Chamber . there be , in fact , five time more people in England today smoke non - cigarette tobacco , which include cigar and shisha , than there be a decade ago . worryingly , the great increase be in young adult . that be why we have say that tobacco in all its form be a harmful product , and that we therefore wish to ensure we be consistent in the policy and the messaging that this be about help young people to stop the start . rise — rise — I be go to make some progress and then I will give way . as I have say , the tobacco industry question the necessity of the Bill on the ground that smoking rate be already fall . it be absolutely correct that smoking rate be down , but as I say , there be nothing inevitable about that . smoking remain the large preventable cause of death , disability and ill health . in England alone , create a smoke - free generation could prevent almost half a million case of heart disease , stroke , lung cancer and other deadly disease by the turn of the century , increase thousand of people ' s quality of life and reduce pressure on our NHS . an independent review have find that if we stand by and do nothing , nearly half a million more people will die from smoke by the end of this decade . we must therefore ask what place this addiction have in our society , and we be not the only one to ask that question of ourselves . we know that our policy of create a smoke - free generation be support by the majority of retailer , and by about 70 % of the public . the economic case for create a smoke - free generation be also profound . each year smoking cost our economy a minimum of £ 17 billion , which be far more than the £ 10 billion of tax revenue that it attract . it cost the average smoker £ 2 , 500 a year — money that those people could spend on other good and service or put towards buy a new car or home . it cost our entire economy by stall productivity and drive economic inactivity , to the extent that the damage cause by smoking account for almost 7p in every £ 1 of income tax we pay . as conservative we be commit to reduce the tax burden on hard - work people and improve the productivity of the state , which be why this Government have cut the double taxation on work not once but twice , give our hard - work constituent a £ 900 average tax cut . that be a moral and principled approach . have celebrate the first 75 year of the NHS last year , I be determined to reform it to make it fast , simple and fair for the next 75 year , and part of that productivity work involve recognise that we must reduce the single most preventable cause of ill health , disability and death in the UK . this reform will benefit not just our child but anyone who may be affect by passive smoking , and , indeed , future taxpayer whose hard - earn income help to fund our health service . today we be take a historic step in that direction . create a smoke - free generation could deliver productivity gain of £ 16 billion by 2056 . it will prevent illness and promote good health , help people to get into work and drive economic growth , all the while reduce pressure on the NHS . of course , the tax burden be the high it have be for some considerable time . I welcome the Bill , but the Khan review estimate that the Government ' s smoke - free ambition would not be fulfil in poor community until 2044 , and there be many such community in my constituency , so how will the Bill tackle that issue ? will it really be another 20 year before we see a result in poor community ? no , because , as I have say , the modelling suggest that among the young generation smoking level will be close to zero by 2040 . as for the hon . Gentleman ' s point about tax , I do not remember he vote against the Government ' s furlough scheme and other support during covid ; nor do I remember he complain that we be try to help people with the cost of living . we as conservative understand that this be sound money , rather than the magic money tree that will somehow fund labour ' s £ 28 billion black hole . I be somewhat perplexed by this debate , and indeed by the Bill . I do not consider it to be enforceable , and I also think it fail to take into account the effective tax measure and health campaign that have be run by successive government to reduce the number of smoker . nor do it respond to the fact that , in the long run , bad and poor diet be likely to kill more people than smoke . accord to a recent study conduct by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation in Seattle , more people be die from malnutrition than from smoking . there be a principle at stake here : should the Government step in and deal with people who be eat unhealthy food ? I be , of course , responsible for healthcare in England , so I will not trespass on the health need of people in — as I think my hon . friend say — Montreal . as for the Bill , it be intend to help child and young people to end their addiction to nicotine , which we know be one of the most addictive substance . as I say early , we should not assume that decrease in smoking rate such as those we have see be inevitable ; indeed , I have cite country in which we have see an increase . we also know that tobacco be be consume in way that be different from the way in which it be consume , say , 20 year ago . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , for instance , mention the rise of non - cigarette tobacco smoking . we be try to address that , for the health of the individual as well as the wide health of society . rise — I have already take an intervention from the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) . I will take one more , from the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , and then I will make some progress — although I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) in a moment . the Secretary of State have talk about addiction to nicotine . if , as she have suggest , vaping be a pathway to stop smoking , why do she not envisage a vape - free generation arrive in parallel with a smoke - free generation , so that we can have a nicotine - free generation across the board ? why do she not expand her legislation to ensure that young people take up neither smoking nor vaping ? the House have already legislate to ensure that vape can not be sell to people under 18 . however , as we be see in our local shop , the vaping industry be find way of market its product that seem design for young mind and young preference . once the Bill have be pass , that age limit will be maintain for vaping but , importantly , from January 2027 onwards we will not see the sale of legal cigarette or tobacco to those age 18 or less . will the Secretary of State give way ? no ; I want to make some progress . I want to say something about the measure on vape because , as member have already demonstrate today , there be a great deal of interest in the subject . as any parent or teacher will know , there have be a dramatic and dangerous increase in youth vaping . at least one in five child have try it . many will say that the solution be simply to enforce the law , and of course that be a vital component , which be why we be invest £ 30 million in our enforcement agency and hit cynical business that sell vape to child with on - the - spot fine . however , we must and will go far , because vape damage our child ' s future . it could damage their lung while they be still develop , intensify the long - term pressure on the NHS , and damage their concentration at school — a point that many teacher have make . we can not replace one generation addict to nicotine with another , and vape be cynically market towards our child . they be sell at pocket - money price , they share shelf space with sweet , they be brand with cartoon character , and they be give flavour such as cotton candy and watermelon ice . our child be be exploit , and we can not and will not let that continue . the Bill will give we power to crack down on child - friendly flavour and packaging and to change the way in which vape be display in shop — measure on which we will consult . through separate environmental legislation we be ban the disposable vape that young people favour and that do so much harm to our planet . some 5 million be throw away , either in bin or on our street , every single week . that be equivalent to some 5 , 000 lithium car battery from electric vehicle be throw away every year . we have a responsibility to tackle the harm to our planet that be perpetrate by the vaping industry . while vape can be helpful in assist adult smoker to quit , our message remain clear : if you do not smoke , do not vape , and child should never vape . I thank the Secretary of State for give way ; she be be very generous . the Bill give her wide - range power in relation to the flavour of vape liquid , packaging and so on , but do not oblige she to consult widely or look at impact statement . in fact , the word " consultation " do not appear anywhere in the Bill . will she give the House a commitment that she will consult fully before exercise any power give to she by the Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight that . I give a commitment here at the Dispatch Box that we will consult . we be very conscious of the complexity of this issue . we want to get it right , and my hon . friend have my absolute undertaking that we will consult before regulation be bring before the House . will the Secretary of State give way ? if the hon . Gentleman want to dive in before I conclude , I will let he do so . that be kind of the Secretary of State . I appreciate she take these intervention . give that this a flagship policy for the Government , will the Secretary of State give I a guarantee from the Dispatch Box that the Bill will apply equally to all part of the United Kingdom ? I have raise a number of concern about the fact that because we have a land border with the European Union , the EU will insist , under the Windsor framework , that it can block the implementation of the Bill in Northern Ireland , as it do with the Danish Government when they try to introduce a similar measure . can I have a guarantee that if the Bill will apply from 2027 in the United Kingdom , it will apply in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise a really important point . may I , through he , thank the new Northern Irish Health Minister , who have be very collaborative in bring forward what need to be bring forward as quickly as possible , give the historical context , so that we can have the Bill align across the United Kingdom ? our intention be absolutely as the hon . Gentleman describe : it apply throughout the United Kingdom . of course , if he or his colleague in Belfast have concern that there may be way in which it could somehow be circumnavigate , we will listen carefully , but I should be clear that our intention be that the Bill apply to all child and young people across the United Kingdom , because we want to protect child live in Northern Ireland just as much as those in England , Wales and Scotland . on the Secretary of State ' s point about tackle illicit tobacco , I raise that question with the then Prime Minister in 2016 , because in Medway we have one of the high rate of illicit tobacco sale . the maximum sentence that can be give for the supply and sale of illicit tobacco be seven year . as part of the strategy to deal with illicit tobacco , will the Government look to increase sentence for its sale and supply ? the Secretary of State be right to say that the conservative party be commit to low taxation , but tax avoidance and evasion cost this country £ 2 billion . if we do not get thing right with regard to the banning of cigarette , which I do not agree with — I think we should do it through education and awareness — we will get more people buy illicit tobacco . that can not be right . my hon . friend give I the ideal opportunity to talk about my favourite criminal offence : cheat the public revenue , which be a criminal offence with very settle law . it have a maximum sentence of life imprisonment , and I have deploy it myself against the organise crime gang to which I refer at the beginning of my speech . a sensible prosecutor will always look at that criminal offence , because it be settle law and good law , and it have a maximum sentence of life imprisonment for those who indulge in it . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be go to conclude . in fairness , I have be generous with my time . we want to build a bright future for our child and grandchild , which mean move from the tossing sea of cause and theory to the firm ground of result and fact . the result of this legislation will be to free future generation from the tyranny of addiction and ill health . the fact include that parent worry about youth vaping and want we to take on the tobacco and vaping industry . the result and fact of this change will save hundred of thousand of life , reduce pressure on our NHS and increase million of young people ' s chance in life . the decision we make today will stand the test of time . for those many reason , I commend the Bill to the House . I will try not to impose a strict time limit . if I be wish to speak , I would start to think about take seven minute for my contribution . that do not apply to the shadow Secretary of State . until the early 2000 , every pub you walk into be fill with smoke . one in every four people in this country be a smoker . the last Labour Government ban smoking in public place , which have an enormous impact on the health of our nation . the following year , there be 1 , 200 few hospital admission for heart attack , accord to the British Medical Journal . since 2007 , the number of people who smoke have be cut by almost a third . our understanding of second - hand smoke grow , and there be a cultural change around where it be acceptable to smoke . even at home , people go outside to smoke , instead of smoke in front of their child . a study in Scotland find that whereas hospital admission for child with asthma be increase by 5 % a year before the smoking ban , admission be down by 18 % in the three year follow labour ' s legislation . in short , Labour help to build a healthy society : smoking be down , the number of patient need treatment be down , NHS bed be free up and life be save . but there be more to do . during the 13 year when Labour be last in office , life expectancy be extend by three and a half year , but in the 14 year that the Conservatives have be in office , it have grow by just four month . for man , it be begin to decline . we be fall into ill health early in life today than we be a decade ago , which be a shameful indication of our country ' s decline . what more motivation could this House need for once again take seriously the health of our nation ? today , smoking remain a scourge on our society . some 75 , 000 gp appointment every month be to deal with the impact of smoking . the cost to our economy , after taxis , be £ 10 billion . around 80 , 000 of our friend , neighbour and colleague lose their life to smoking every year . it be a lethal addiction , a scourge on society , an enormous burden on our NHS and a drag on our economy , and it be time to consign it to the dustbin of history . let we act today so that the next generation of young people can live healthy , happy and long live than the generation before they . labour will give our wholehearte support to this Bill . in fact , we need no persuasion . in an interview with the Times in January last year , I say that it be time for a New Zealand - style smoking ban . I argue that a progressive ban would have a transformational impact on the health of individual , the health of the nation as a whole and the public finance . after around two and a half year in this job , I be get use to the Government nick labour ' s policy . in the last year alone , the magpie opposite have swoop in on Labour ' s NHS workforce plan , Labour ' s plan to recruit dentist in the most under - serve area , Labour ' s plan for a windfall tax on oil and gas giant , and labour ' s plan to abolish the non - dom tax status . even so , I be shock when I see that the conservative party — the party of Ken Clarke — be nick the Labour party ' s plan for a progressive ban on tobacco . of all the policy that the Conservatives have adopt from the Labour party in the past few year , nothing show our dominance in the battle of idea more than this late capitulation . where Labour lead , the Conservatives follow . indeed , when I first float this proposal , conservative mps call it " nanny state " and " an attack on ordinary people and their culture " , and I be accuse of " health fascism " . what irony , when conservative mp be overseas today in Brussels , line up with the european far right . anyway , it be water off a duck ' s back to I . I be delighted that just a few month later the Prime Minister announce this policy at the Conservative party conference , and that a Conservative Health Secretary have bring this progressive ban before Parliament today . however , it seem that not every Conservative Member get the memo . it have be widely report , and we have see indication of it today , that there be still member on the conservative Benches — as many as 100 , if we believe rebel Tory briefing to the medium , although in our experience these tory rebellion tend to evaporate when the moment come — who resist the new interventionist consensus , who continue to fly the flag for small - state libertarianism , and who believe that the Health Secretary and the Prime Minister have surrender to the lobbying of big health and those tyrant in action on Smoking and Health , the British Heart Foundation , Cancer Research UK , diabetes UK , Alzheimer ' s Research UK , Mind , Asthma and Lung UK , the Royal College of Physicians , the Royal College of General Practitioners , the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health , the Royal College of Midwives and the British Medical Association . well , we happily align ourselves with big health in defence of the nation and we be only too happy to defend the Health Secretary against the siren voice of big tobacco that we see gather around our former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , in the corner of the Chamber today . on the issue of unity , do the hon . Gentleman agree with the comment make by his colleague the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) that if we bring in a progressive ban on cigarette , we should mirror it with a similar ban on vape ? if he become Health Secretary , will that become the policy that he will promote ? my hon . friend the Member for York Central make the really good point — a point that need to be well understand in the context of this debate — that vaping be undoubtedly , unquestionably a useful smoking cessation tool , but we should not send the message to the country that vaping be good for our health or that it be without harmful consequence . when it come to ban thing , it should be on the basis of evidence and there should not be a predisposition to ban . I have not yet see evidence to persuade I that vaping be harmful enough to introduce a ban of the sort suggest by my hon . friend the Member for York Central . I hope I can reassure the right hon . Gentleman that , when the general election eventually come , the Labour party will not go around try to ban thing leave , right and centre , but I certainly want to consign to the history book the 244 , 000 people on NHS waiting list in his area as a direct result of the policy of the Government whom he support and have serve . rise — I will happily give way . perhaps the right hon . Gentleman would like to take the opportunity to apologise to his constituent in Rossendale and Darwen for his abysmal record in government . I will resist the hon . Gentleman ' s offer . he have just say that vaping should only ever be use to help people to stop smoke cigarette . if this Bill pass , it will be illegal for people who be now aged 15 ever to smoke cigarette , so there will be no requirement in his world for they ever to vape . so I repeat the question , which he have refuse to answer : will the Labour party bring forward — this be support by his own party — a ban on vape to mirror the tobacco ban ? yes or no ? the record will show that I answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question . I talk about ban thing and take away people ' s choice , and there be plenty of thing that we do on a daily basis that might be harmful to our health in some way . indeed , participate in most physical contact sport carry a risk of injury , but we be not go to ban football , rugby or boxing . I refer he to my previous answer , which be that I have not see evidence to persuade I to ban vaping in the way that this Government be propose to phase out smoking . I have answer that question already and I answer it again now , but I be sure that it will not be lose on the people of Rossendale and Darwen that he do not take the opportunity to apologise to the 244 , 000 people in his area who be stick on record long waiting list . once again , the Prime Minister have show that he be too weak to stand up to his party . the psychodrama in the conservative party be be put before the interest of the country . in the press today , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the right hon . member for Saffron Walden ( Kemi Badenoch ) be the late to let it be know that she will be oppose this Bill . journalist be helpfully point towards comment about her belief in the limit of the state make during her last leadership campaign . I say " her last leadership campaign " , but I be sure that it will not be her last leadership campaign . indeed , I do not think it have ever stop . anyway , that be what she say . in fact , she bemoan government who try to " solve every problem " . well , if she have a problem with government solve problem , she must be delighted with the record of this Government , who can barely solve any problem . they can not even solve the chaos in their own party . the Business Secretary be not the only one who be desperate to tell conservative party member that they oppose this Bill . the former Prime Minister join we today . the right hon . member for South West Norfolk and recently declare candidate to be the next leader of the Conservative party , have say that the Bill be " profoundly unconservative " . a stop clock be right twice a day , and I find myself agree with the former Prime Minister . this be absolutely an un - Conservative Bill . it be a Labour Bill , and we be delighted to see the Government bring it forward . [ interruption . ] yes , even this stop clock be right twice a day for the Trussites in the corner . the right hon . Lady be in fine company when it come to former Prime Ministers . Boris Johnson have say that this proposal be " absolutely nuts … it ' s just mad " . well , now he know how the rest of we feel when he be Prime Minister . the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) could not be with we today because she be currently in Brussels surround by the police who be try to shut down the event she be attend with some far right fanatic , with whom she have much in common . a source close to the right hon . and learn Lady have say that she be " not a fan " of the Bill . well , now she know how the rest of we feel about she , too . some dark horse have also spy an opportunity to play to the gallery . it seem that even my former b ê te noire , the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , fancy his chance in the ongoing battle for the conservative leadership , because he too have come out against this Bill . to be fair , he have a strong case for the leadership of the conservative party . as Health Secretary , he have to face a workforce in constant dispute with he , which be good practice for deal with the party , and he have to deal with a steady stream of toxic sewage in his current job , so who could be more experienced in cope with the travail of the modern Conservative party than the right hon . Gentleman ? I want to praise the one member of this Government who have consistently make the case for the Government ' s Bill . no , of course I be not talk about the Prime Minister . since his party conference speech in October he have shrink away from the debate , once again too weak to stand up to his own party , and instead leave it to other to make the case for he . to her credit , the Health Secretary have cast aside any leadership ambition she may have once hold and come out in full - throate defence of Labour ' s policy . so let I assure my comrade opposite that we will stand with she today in the voting Lobby , even as the force of conservatism stand against she . go back to the subject of what we be try to debate rather than play a political game , I hope that the hon . Gentleman be not go to pick up a sheet and throw some figure at I , because this be a serious question . when my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) ask a question about a consultation on vaping , those on the Opposition Front Bench shake their head at the idea . can I ask why ? as a former smoker myself , I have move to vape in order to quit smoking , and I genuinely think that this issue need to be consider . I ask the hon . Gentleman a simple question : why do the Labour party think a consultation should not go ahead ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her intervention . it fall to I to defend the Government against their own member , but to be fair to this Government , they have consult on measure to clamp down on inappropriate vaping . they have consult , and we have be urge they to go fast in crack down on the sale of vape to under - age people in this country — a generation of young people who have become addicted to nicotine . I will talk about that far on in my speech . the Government have consult and the Bill will go through the legislative process . we will no doubt have a rigorous debate today and in the Bill Committee . it will then report to this House and then go to the House of Lords , where it will be continue to be scrutinise , and it be unacceptable that there be still people who would tie the Health Secretary ' s hand behind her back and slow she down when urgent action be need to clamp down on the people who be sell nicotine to child . those people be addict child to nicotine . I do not understand why on earth the Trussites in the corner be try to tie the hand of their own Health Secretary when she be try to do the right thing by young people . rise — perhaps the hon . Member will tell we . the hon . Member be put I on the wrong side of this argument as a former smoker , so I would appreciate it if he have a little bit more respect . what I be try to ask be this : why do he not agree that people who be use vaping as a substitute for smoking should be consult on what they believe should happen through this Bill ? I do not know whether there be a problem with the speaker system in here , because this be the second time I have have an intervention after answer the question . I have already say that the Government have consult on measure to clamp down , and I be absolutely not against the Government talk to people who , like the hon . Lady , have use vaping as a smoking cessation tool . in fact , I fully support the point she be make , which be that vaping can be a really effective tool to help smoker to quit smoking . I be in favour of that ; that be good for health . if the Government want to talk to and engage with people who vape as part of the passage of this Bill , that be absolutely fine . what I be not in favour of be tie the Secretary of State ' s hand when she want to do more , and more quickly , to prevent child become addict to nicotine . just to be clear , we will consult on this . it be a simple question that require a simple answer : will labour consult far ? Mr Deputy Speaker , we be now in this parallel universe where the Secretary of State be ask I , the shadow Secretary of State , whether I be go to consult on her Bill . now , I be willing to help she out , but if she want I to sit on that side of the Chamber and run the Department of Health and Social Care , I be ready and willing , but we need a general election to do that . I do not understand — this be just extraordinary . I feel like I be live in a parallel universe this afternoon . it be bad enough when the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk , walk in with her book and her fan club , and now we have the absurd spectacle of the Secretary of State ask I whether I will run the consultation on her Bill . this be extraordinary . I will allow she to correct the record and save her blush . the hon . Gentleman be not listen . he have be ask repeatedly whether he support the concept of a consultation on vape in order to ensure that these regulation be draw up properly . he be not listen . he refuse to answer the question . we on this side of the House be clear : we want to get this right and we will consult . I be simply ask whether he will answer the question that he have be ask . honestly , Mr Deputy Speaker , you just can ' t help some people . I be try to help the Secretary of State out and defend she against her own side , and now , to curry favour with they , she have turn on I . now I know what it be like be in the conservative party . this be like a 1922 committee meeting — absolutely absurd . for the final time , let I just explain the situation we find ourselves in today . the Secretary of State be currently in government . this be her Bill . she be take it through Parliament . she be perfectly able to run a consultation . I will support she in run a consultation , if that be the support she need . [ interruption . ] I be so pleased . if only I have know it be that easy . if all she need be a bit of moral support from I to run the consultation , then you go , comrade — don ' t you worry ; I have get your back , and it be absolutely fine . I be try to be helpful to the Secretary of State this afternoon , but I just have to say to she that I be not sure that the good way to persuade her colleague be to invoke the great cigar chomper , Winston Churchill . some have estimate that Churchill go through 160 , 000 cigar in his time . indeed , on one occasion , at a lunch with the then King of Saudi Arabia , Churchill be tell that no smoking or drinking would be permit in the royal presence . he respond : " if it be the religion of his Majesty to deprive himself of smoking and alcohol , I must point out that my rule of life prescribe as an absolutely sacred rite smoking cigar and also the drinking of alcohol before , after and , if need be , during all meal and in the interval between they . " I appreciate the Health Secretary ' s effort , but I fear that Lord Soames be probably on to something when he say that his grandfather certainly would not have approve of this Bill . just before any Conservative Members decide to wage yet another culture war and accuse I of talk down one of Britain ' s great Prime Ministers , I would just add to the historical record that it be thank to the Labour party that it be Winston Churchill , not Lord Halifax , who become the leader of our country at a crucial time , and thank goodness that he do . nevertheless , I do commend the Secretary of State on a good effort — she be close , but no cigar . anyway , let we go back to the economic argument of the Bill . I want to go back to the point about consultation . I think that the hon . Gentleman have agree that , for people who smoke cigarette , move on to vape can be helpful . what he may not know be that people who have move on to those vape tell we that , if they be unflavoured and just taste of nicotine , they taste revolting . that be why many vape be flavour . that be why my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) may be so concerned about make sure that people ' s view be listen to before flavour be remove from the market . it appear to I that the hon . Gentleman do not get that point , because he be refuse to believe that any such consultation be important . therefore , out of respect to the people who use these product to stop smoking , can he confirm again that if he be in government at the time , soon after this Bill be pass , he will consult people and listen to their view before ban the product they use ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her intervention . I think she make a perfectly sensible point , actually , and I be perfectly open to lobby from Conservative member on how a Labour Government will behave after the general election — she seem to think it be a foregone conclusion , but I certainly do not ; we will be work hard for every vote . I can reassure she that our concern have be about child become addict to nicotine . in relation to adult use of vape as a tool for stop smoking , I think she make an absolutely reasonable point about flavourless vaping , and of course she be right that we need to ensure that we get the regulation right on that so that we do not unwittingly deter people from stop smoking . however , as I will come on to talk about when I come to the vaping section of the Bill , there be no excuse whatsoever for the kind of flavouring and marketing of vape that we have see , which I believe have be deliberately and wilfully design to addict young people to what be , let we not forget , a harmful substance . I make that very clear . anyway , back to the Bill — someone have to defend it , and I get the sense that there be not go to be too many on the Government side , so I will have a go at do what the Prime Minister be too weak to do and take on the argument of his own party . they say that the progressive ban on smoking be unconservative . let I tell they what be unconservative : the heavy tax burden in 70 year , and it will get heavy if we do not act to prevent ill health . if we continue down the road that the Conservatives have put we on , with more and more people suffer , fall sick and fall out of the workforce , we will not just be let those people down ; we will all be pay a heavy price for it too . the cost of sickness and disability benefit be due to rise on the Government ' s watch , from £ 65 billion this year to over £ 90 billion by the end of the next Parliament . the budget for the NHS be £ 165 billion this year , and the health service be not cope with exist demand . if society continue to get less healthy , those demand will only rise . if the health service and our welfare service be to be make sustainable for the future , then we must act to prevent ill health in the first place . what well way to do that than by wipe out the lead cause of cancer ? it be not just our public finance that be hold back by ill health ; so too be our economy . I be try to follow the hon . Gentleman ' s argument to its logical conclusion . he talk about substance that be bad — addictive and harmful to people ' s health — and have a huge impact on the NHS through those cost , but there be so many more thing that be in fact bad for health . sugar and salt be highly addictive . do this mean that Labour ' s plan be to ban food with high level of salt or sugar ? logically , that be the next step , and therefore , if we need to protect the NHS and cut cost , we should be ban anything that be slightly bad for we , rather than actually take a well enjoyment of life and say , " a little bit of what you fancy every now and again be okay , and good for your mental health . " I think that be extraordinary . I do not think that smoking be slightly harmful ; I think it be the single big cause of cancer , and I think that the cost to people ' s health , to our national health service and to our economy be enormous . this sort of argument — that if we ban smoking for young people , we have to ban everything else — be absurd . I think that the Secretary of State just point out the absurdity of it when she point to a whole range of harmful thing in our country that be already ban . let I put the question back to the libertarian wing in the corner of the Chamber . will the new modern conservative party not ban anything ? will we have a libertarian dystopia in which people be free to do whatever they want in the name of liberty ? [ interruption . ] I be just try to help the Secretary of State by take on the libertarian in the corner . I would be very sad if she want I to give in to they but , with 187 , 000 people on the waiting list in the local area of the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Alexander Stafford ) , I think we should do something about it . I proudly call myself a libertarian , because I believe in the fundamental value of freedom of decision making . on what we should and should not ban , I would argue there be a very substantial difference between ban class a and class b drug , which do immense harm in all our community , and ban tobacco . we already struggle to stop the former , so why on earth would we try to create and police a huge black market in the latter ? I admire the right hon . gentleman for stick to his conviction as a libertarian in make that case , even though I strongly disagree with he , but how far do his commitment to libertarianism go ? he be defend the right of our country ' s child to become addicted to nicotine for the rest of their life , which be an extraordinary argument . there be 356 , 000 people in his local area on NHS waiting list . do he want a future where that get bad and the disease burden and cost pressure rise ? when he be in government , the low - tax conservative crash our economy and send people ' s mortgage through the roof , and rent , bill and the tax burden rise . that be their record . I wish he would do more to stand up for his low - tax conviction than his libertarian desire that child grow up in our country today should become addicted to nicotine . I have to respectfully disagree with he . compare with three year ago , half a million more people be out of work due to long - term sickness . People ' s career be be ruin by illness that prevent they from contribute to Britain ' s economic success . we can not build a healthy economy without a healthy society . not only be there a moral argument for back this progressive ban , base on the countless life ruin by smoking and our share determination to make sure that child grow up in Britain today will not die as a result of smoking , but there be an economic argument , too . it be certainly true that vaping be less harmful than smoke and be a useful smoking cessation tool , but vape be harmful product none the less . in the past few year , entirely on the Conservatives ' watch , a new generation of child have become hooked on nicotine . an estimated quarter of a million child vape today , and there be no doubt that this be the result of vape company ' decision to target child . on any high street in the country today , people can buy brightly colour vape and e - liquid with name such as " Vimto Breeze " and " Mango Ice " . they be design , package , market and deliberately sell to child . the effect of this new nicotine addiction on our country ' s young people should trouble we all . a couple of year back , Newham do a survey and discover that 4 % of year 6 child — that be 10 and 11 - year - old — have already vape . I meet Community link in can Town in January , and it have be work on project to tackle misinformation . its student explain to I that they and their friend have be encourage to believe that vaping be somehow safe and will not cause they the same problem with nicotine . surely we can all agree that the voice of young people need to be hear and that they need to be encourage and assist to tackle the misinformation about vape that be clearly out there . I strongly agree with my hon . friend , and I be very familiar with Community link , which do brilliant work . we should take the voice of child and young people seriously — the right hon . member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) make that point early . teacher monitor school toilet where child congregate to vape . kid be make up excuse to leave their classroom in order to satisfy their nicotine craving , and child in primary school , age 9 or young , have end up in hospital because of the impact of vaping . paediatric chest physician report that child be be put in intensive care unit for condition such as lung bleeding , lung collapse and lung fill up with fat . one girl who start vape at school tell the BBC that she have " no control over it … I start to get shaky and it ' s almost all I can think of . " the question that must be ask of Conservative Members should not be whether they will take action today , but what have take they so long . in 2021 , Labour support an amendment to the Health and Care Act 2022 to ban the branding and marketing of vape to appeal to child — conservative mp vote it down . in 2023 , my hon . friend the Member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) lead a debate on an Opposition day motion on the same propose ban — once again , conservative mp fail to support it . thank to their delay in act against this , and thank to their awful , shocking complacency , thousand more child have take up vaping and become addicted to nicotine . can the Health Secretary tell the House whether the Government ' s delay in act against youth vaping have anything to do with the £ 350 , 000 donation her party receive from the boss of a major vape company that sell vape with flavour such as " Blue Razz Lemonade " and " Strawberry Mousse " ? we be an age society face rise chronic disease . we be approach these challenge with an NHS already in the bad crisis in its history , with the long waiting list and low patient satisfaction on record , 121 , 000 staff vacancy across the health service and 14 , 000 few hospital bed than in 2010 . if we do not act today to ease the pressure come down the track , they threaten to overwhelm and even bankrupt the health service . prevention be well than cure . this progressive ban must be the beginning of a decade in which we shift the focus of healthcare in this country from sickness to prevention , which be mission critical to make sure the NHS can be there for we in the next 75 year , just as it have be there for we in the past 75 year . if the Government be serious about take on this challenge , Labour have many more plan that they can adopt before they finally call the general election . they could adopt our child ' s health plan to give every child a healthy start to life . they could ban junk food ad aim at kid so that child be not target by unhealthy food . they could tackle the mental health crisis face young people , with support in every school , hub in every community , and 8 , 500 more mental health professional to cut the disgracefully long waiting time for treatment . they could treat the 152 , 000 child who have be on NHS waiting list for more than 18 week , end long wait for child for good . we will do it by provide 2 million more operation , and by provide evening and weekend appointment to beat the Tory backlog . we will have supervise toothbrushing in school to tackle the moral emergency of child need to have their rotting tooth pull out , which be the no . 1 reason why child age six to 10 end up in hospital . we will have breakfast club in every primary school so that kid start the day with hungry mind , not hungry belly . we will digitise the red book , make sure that all kid be up to date on their check and vaccine . and we will once again put an end to measle in this country , after it have be allow to return on the Government ' s watch . we want the next generation to be chase their dream , not a dentist appointment . they should aspire to reach their potential , not to reach a doctor . labour ' s plan be to make sure that today ' s child be part of the healthy generation that have ever live , and this ban be just the start . the Prime Minister may be too weak to whip his mps to vote for this important Bill , but Labour will put country first and party second . we will resist the temptation to play game on vote . instead , we will go through the Lobby to make sure this legislation be pass so that today ' s young people be even less likely to smoke than they be to vote Conservative . I commend this Bill to the House . rise — Order . I remind everyone that there be a lot of interest in this debate , particularly among Government Members , so I ask speaker not to stray too much beyond seven minute . I call Liz Truss . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be not speak in this debate because I love smoking , although I have vote against every single smoking prohibition since I have be a Member of Parliament . I be speak today because I be very concerned that the policy that have be put forward be emblematic of a technocratic establishment in this county that want to limit people ' s freedom . that be a problem . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will not give way to the hon . Lady — [ hon . member : " oh . " ] I will not give way . I will give exactly as much opportunity as the Opposition give I to talk about my private Member ' s Bill , which I shall come on to later . the problem be that the instinct of this establishment , which be reflect in cross - party consensus in the Chamber , be to believe that it — that the government — be well at make decision for people than people themselves . I absolutely agree that that be true for the under - 18 . it be very important that we protect people while they be grow up until they have decision - make capability . however , I think the whole idea that we can protect adult from themselves be hugely problematic and effectively infantilise people . that be what have be go on . we be see , not just on tobacco but on sugar , alcohol and meat , a group of people who want to push an agenda which be about limit personal freedom . I think that that be fundamentally wrong . I go out canvass a lot in my Norfolk constituency . People raise all kind of issue with I on the doorstep . they be concerned about immigration . they be concerned about the cost of energy . they be concerned about the rise of China . they want to support Ukraine . not a single voter have ever say to I , " my big concern be adult smoke . " this proposal have not come from people — our constituent — talk to we . it have come from a group of people who , by and large , work in a professional capacity push these policy . when my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) be Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , this proposal be sit on her desk , so it be not new . I be pleased to say that she put it in the bin , but unfortunately since then it seem to have be pull out of the bin and resuscitate . my real fear be that this be not the final stage that the health police want to push . health police ! they be the health police , and people be concerned about this . they want to be able to make their own decision about what they eat , what they drink and how they enjoy themselves . if the hon . Gentleman do not understand that , I suggest that he start listen to the public . what I also find extraordinary be the fact that almost four week ago I put a private member ' s Bill to Parliament to ban under - 18 from be able to access puberty blocker and cross - sex hormone in the private sector and on the national health service . child have be take those drug , and that have have life - change effect on they . they have prevent they from have their own child , create problem with their physique and their body , and damage their health . not only do the Labour party not support my private Member ' s Bill but its member talk and filibuster — they talk about ferret — so much that I be not even able to speak . these be the same people who be say that in future we should ban cigarette for 30 - year - old , yet they will not vote to ban puberty blocker and cross - sex hormone for the under - 18 . thank goodness that Hilary Cass have come forward with her report . I welcome the support of the Health and Social Care Secretary for that report , but that be what we should be legislate on . we should be legislate on implement the recommendation in the Hilary Cass report to prevent real danger to our child , rather than a virtue - signal piece of legislation about protect adult from themselves in future . I be afraid that too many member of Parliament have go along with this orthodoxy . I be not surprised that that be the case for Labour and Liberal Democrat Members , who generally do not support freedom . they believe that the government know good — the state know good — and we understand that . I be disappointed , however , that a Conservative Government have introduce the Bill . the only other country in the world where such a Bill be bring forward be New Zealand , under a very left - wing Prime Minister . that Bill have now be reverse under the new conservative Government in New Zealand . I have a message for my colleague on this side of the House . if people want to vote for finger - wag , nannye control freak , there be plenty of they to choose from in the opposition , and that be the way they will vote . if people want to have control over their life , if they want to have freedom , that be why they vote conservative . we have to stand by our principle and ideal even if — will the right hon . Lady give way ? no , I be not give way to the party that filibuster on my Bill and stop we take action to protect child . that be a disgrace . do my right hon . friend hear the comment of Sir Chris Whitty on the radio this morning ? he refuse to apologise for or explain the failure of the NHS to deal with the issue of puberty blocker while , at the same time , he profess great support for these oppressive measure which be before the House . my hon . friend make absolutely the right point . there be double standard in this debate . my view be that it be absolutely right that we protect the under - 18 from these potential danger before they have full decision - make capability , but we should allow adult to exercise that freedom . it seem to I that the medical establishment , the national health service and other work in the health industry have unfortunately be capture by this gender ideology , which be prevent they from see the truth of what be happen . that be why the Cass report be welcome . if only the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) have show the same level of interest in deal with the issue of young people and puberty blocker that he have show in pursue his crusade against smoking — he be not say this a few year ago . as my right hon . friend will know , I be in the Chamber on that Friday listen to the filibustering , and be unable to contribute to the important debate on puberty blocker . I support her Bill and be grateful for the Cass report . in reality , there be some product that be ban for adult — thing such as cocaine and heroin — so society as a whole have make a choice that some product must be ban for adult as well as child . it be about where we draw the line . my right hon . Friend say that people should be able to do whatever they want as adult , but in fact unless we want to liberalise law on drug and allow people to have heroin , cocaine and everything else — perhaps she do — a line have to be draw somewhere , and it be just a case of where . I certainly do not support the liberalisation of those drug . we know that people who become addicted to heroin and cocaine be a huge danger to other people and to their family ; it destroy society . that be not the level of danger that tobacco pose , so those be very different scenario . I will come to my conclusion , because I know that a lot of people want to speak in the debate . what I ask be that member do not just follow the instruction of the health lobby . we have hear about what the chief medical officer say . I know from be a Government Minister that there be often scheme push by official and civil servant because , fundamentally , there be a belief that government know well . I want Members of Parliament to think not just about what happen if we ban smoking for people who be over the age of 18 , but about the implication for shopkeeper who have to identify whether people be the right age . will it mean that people have to carry ID into shop with they into their 40 ? what be the practical implication ? it be a very dangerous precedent to start say that some adult can have the freedom to smoke and some can not . that be a fundamental problem . it be fundamentally unconservative , it be unliberal and I will not be support the Bill . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . be it in order for member of this House to attack individual officer , such as the chief medical officer , or the civil service more generally , when they can not answer back ? ultimately , adviser advise and Ministers decide . if people do not like Government policy or its consequence , they should take responsibility as Ministers and not attack official who can not answer back . I will allow that to rest on the record . I be pleased to speak here today in favour of the Bill , part 2 of which specifically relate to Scotland , because smoking be the lead cause of preventable death in both Scotland and the UK . we know that , so we be surely duty bind to act and prevent harm . to be clear from the outset , I want we to help people to stop smoke . smoking cessation , as well as prevent future harm , require our action . Dr Ian Walker , executive director of policy at Cancer Research UK , have correctly point out that nothing will have a big impact on reduce the number of preventable death in the UK then end smoking . I will not go into detail about the terrible reality of the health impact of smoking . we have hear about they already today , particularly powerfully from those who have work directly in the medical environment . we have see significant success where we have act on smoking in the past . I remember when the ban on smoking in indoor public space come into effect in Scotland , a first in the UK . it be a bit controversial , but not for long . it have undoubtedly hugely improve our environment and , importantly , our health outcome . we have see an important decrease in the number of smoker , but let we be real — there be still far too many life be destroy by smoking . I be very glad that Scotland have be in front of the curve on these issue , whether that be with the indoor ban , the overhaul of tobacco sale and display , the ambitious goal of a smoke - free Scotland by 2034 or an issue that I have often speak about here , the consultation on disposable vape . the direction of travel be welcome . the SNP welcome the collaborative step towards create a smoke - free generation . it be not just we — the public be look for action too . action on Smoking and Health tell we that the large poll of public opinion conduct to date — over 13 , 000 adult be poll — find 69 % in support , include over half of all current smoker . I watch with some despair — a little bit like I watch some of the proceeding in the House today — medium interview this morning where the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) say some of the thing she repeat here in the Chamber . she say : " I don ' t know why this legislation be be bring forward " . I would have think that be pretty obvious really , but let I help she with that : it be to stop people die . she then say , as she have again during the debate , that this be " unconservative " legislation . to be fair , I know absolutely nothing about be a Conservative and I be very much ok with that , but what a bizarre statement . surely regardless of our vary political view , we can look at the health impact of smoking and say they be not the future we want , and not the damage , harm and heartbreak we want for future generation . let we be clear that any argument put forward about personal choice or personal freedom make no sense at all when we be talk about child and a highly addictive substance . smoking be not a free choice ; it be an addiction . nicotine be a horribly addictive substance . that be why this be a positive and necessary move , and one widely welcome , include by Asthma and Lung UK . that organisation point to the significant harm to future generation if we do not act now , and highlight the enormous cost to the nhs if we do not take this preventative action when we have the opportunity to do so . Scottish Government Public Health Minister Jenni Minto MSP have welcome the Bill , point out that Scotland have be a world leader on a range of tobacco control measure . while there have be a steady reduction in the proportion of people smoke , we know it still damage life and kill more than 8 , 000 people a year in Scotland . if we do not act , we know perfectly well what the impact of that inaction will be . we also know that smoking cause and exacerbate health inequality , which be exactly why we need to have a tobacco - free Scotland . indeed , Mark Rowland , chief executive of the Mental Health Foundation , point out : " smoking harm disproportionally affect those with poor mental health and stop smoking have be show to be as effective as anti - depressant . the Tobacco and Vapes Bill be a once in a generation opportunity to prevent the know mental and physical harm that smoke cause and regulate commercial interest from undermine the health of future generation . " Asthma and Lung UK note that the harm of tobacco be not equally distribute . in fact , smoking be responsible for half of the difference in life expectancy between the rich and poor in society . that generational nature of tobacco addiction mean that child bear today to parent who smoke be four time as likely to take up smoke themselves and to find it hard to quit . so the impact of smoking in term of generational inequality and harm be clear and known , and we should aim to change that . I be grateful to Asthma and Lung UK , and to the many other group that send I briefing material . the breadth and range of organisation , include many medical and health group , that have be in touch to urge I to support improvement in health and to stop future generation become addict to tobacco , be very interesting and speak to the wide spectrum of those determined to stop this harm , include , as we have hear , a majority of the public and retailer . I would like to spend a little time talk about vape , particularly disposable vape . to nobody ' s surprise , I be go to be positive in my support for any and all measure to arrest the tidal wave of child vaping , which should absolutely chill we all . the health impact on child be terrify , and that be only the one we know about . my view be very firmly that all disposable vape should be ban now , immediately . we should deal with the utmost urgency with the significant harm these device be cause to our environment and to eye - water number of child . which of we can seriously say they be confident it be not their child ? member be delude themselves if they believe that be the case . as the hon . Lady know , as we work on this subject together , I bring forward a ten - minute rule Bill to ban disposable vape last year . the measure in that Bill do not form part of the legislation today , because this be health legislation , but the banning of disposable vape form part of a statutory instrument that have be bring forward as environmental legislation . do she welcome that ? I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s intervention . as she know , it be important for we to look at disposable vape in the round , include their devastating environmental effect as well as the terrible impact they have on the health of our young people . whichever angle we look from , these be device of which we have no need and that we should get rid of as soon as possible , before they cause any more harm . the proliferation of vape have happen almost overnight . do my hon . friend share the concern of my constituent , who run a newsagent and tobacconist , that he be hold the fort on legislation about the sale of tobacco , yet vape be not subject to the same control ? he may refuse somebody because he do not think they be of age to buy a vape , but he find they just go down the street to purchase it at another shop that do not have the control and responsibility that he have as a tobacco salesperson . I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that important point . I can understand the concern of her constituent ; these device be far too accessible and far too easily available . they be in all of our school and on all of our high street . we need to open our eye to the damage that be be do . ASH Scotland do great work in that regard . it tell we that , in Scotland , datum from the health behaviour in school - aged child survey show that current e - cigarette use — that mean those who have use they in the last 30 day — among 15 - year - old increase from 7 % in 2018 , which I would have think be scary enough , to a horrify 25 % in 2022 . obviously we be a bit beyond that now , so I wonder exactly what the figure be , but we have hear enough in the Chamber today to know that , whatever that current figure be , it should cause we grave concern . these product be design to be attractive . they be undoubtedly attractive — we have all see they . they be disposable , so young people can chuck they before their parent find out , they be pocket - money price , and they be appeal — green gummy bear flavour , anyone ? in fact , the green gummy bear flavour one be on sale for £ 1 . 50 , which be a disgrace . vape should not be accessible in that way , and should certainly not be sell at £ 1 . 50 . they could not be design any more obviously to attract young people . very often , we be talk about child who have never smoke , but who be now get hook on these vape and get hook on nicotine . there be also the worry about the unknown harm that vape cause to their body and their health . the soon that we can change all of that the well . I also have a personal gripe : vape be advertise via sport . there be no reason for that — no justification at all . yes , I be look at Blackburn Rovers among other . when I raise the matter previously , Blackburn Rovers , base in the vaping capital of the UK , say : " at no point during our long - stand relationship have the idea that the totally wicked brand might appeal disproportionately to child be raise , and we have see no evidence to suggest that our sponsorship have encourage an uptake of vaping among child . " well , I be raise it , and raise it again . I urge all sport club — because there be other — to have serious thought on this . we want to see our sporting hero as positive influence on our young people and their health and wellbeing . to be clear , I support measure to help people stop smoke . it be hard to do and all help be welcome , but that help do not come in the form of candy - colour , candy - flavour , pocket money - price disposable vape . let we deal seriously with smoking cessation . let we deal seriously with the terrible harm cause to our young people by disposable vape , and let we have the backbone to take the chance now to stop smoke kill so many of our love one . I wish to end by reflect on the word of William Roberts , chief executive of the Royal Society for Public Health , who say : " smoking continue to cut life short , kill up to two in three long - term user , and place significant strain on an already overstretch health and social care system . protect future generation from the danger of tobacco be vital if we want to build a healthy future . it be vital that the Bill pass and mps of all political stripe put prevention at the heart of public policy when it come to protect our health . " I sincerely hope that we do . rise — order . let I just remind member of the seven - minute guidance . I start with a spoiler alert : I will be vote to give the Tobacco and Vapes Bill a second reading this evening . as we might say , prevention be the new cure . I will not spend my time read out the screed of statistic that we have already hear , but the bottom line be that smoking product be the only product on sale legally in our country today that — if you follow the instruction — will kill you . both Labour and conservative Governments have act in the past , and we have see smoking rate tumble as a result . it be now time to finish the job , and this Bill can be part of that . here be where I be come from . we talk a lot about the pressure on the NHS . indeed , there have be some new waiting list figure publish while we have be away . we talk about public satisfaction — colleague will be aware of the late british social attitude survey last month . we talk endlessly about system , budget and staffing , which be all quite proper . they be all issue that we face , and my Health and Social Care Committee do not duck any of they . we can increase the budget , and we have do so hugely . the NHS in England have never have more money . we can put in a place a properly fund workforce plan , as my Committee call for — and we have . we can produce credible recovery plan for urgent and emergency care , primary care and elective waiting list , and the Government , to their credit , have do all of those thing . we can make use of a much wide workforce — Pharmacy First be a good example — but the truth be that demand continue to outstrip supply , and we can not continue to increase the health budget fast than our economy be grow . we have to think long - term about population preventive health . for I , there be no more obvious and glaring candidate for healthcare gain from prevention than action against smoking . when look at this legislation , I ask not whether we want to finish the job on smoking , or whether it be right to save ten of thousand of life lose to cancer , heart disease and stroke by do that — I lose both my parent to cancer before I be 50 — but whether the propose measure aim at create a smoke - free generation will actually work . I also ask : how strong be the resolve of Ministers to swiftly use the power they be take in the Bill to tackle the use of vape among child ? an issue often overlook be whether we will we keep the focus on the current smoker we must also help to quit . modelling from the Department show we that if the age of sale be increase by one year every year , as propose in the Bill , smoking rate among 14 to 30 - year - old be likely to be zero by 2050 . I have say this since the Prime Minister announce his intention to bring forward these measure in his conference speech last year , and he deserve so much credit for bring this change to the House . the Government must win the argument on this as well as the vote , now that the Bill be before Parliament . the Secretary of State , who be no long in her place , do that today , and I pay credit to the shadow Secretary of State for his part in that . I wish to touch on an issue that we have already hear of today . the fact be that at some future point we will have a situation in which a 50 - year - old can legally smoke while a 49 - year - old can not . there be no get away from that . that be a possible scenario for sure and , yes , it be rather inelegant , but it also miss the very point of the smoke - free ambition at the heart of the Bill . the clue be in the name : smoke free . the Bill do not criminalise exist smoker , and it ensure that the purchase of tobacco by those under the legal age of sale will not be criminalise . compliance will be the responsibility of the business , as be the case with the current age - of - sale law in England . the Bill make it illegal to sell tobacco product to anyone who be bear on or after new year ' s day 2009 . that include my 13 - year - old son , William . by pass this legislation , the state be say to he that it be not okay to start smoke when he reach 18 — I think that when we look back we will ask how we ever say it be — and by do so my son never become that 49 - year - old . end of story . we be tell that raise the age of sale will fuel the black market , and the next generation of smoker will pick up the habit via illicit sale . a comprehensive anti - smuggling strategy , update over time , have succeed in halve the illicit market share from 22 % to 11 % . I welcome the fact that the anti - smuggling strategy of Border Force and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have be update in the light of this propose legislation . be I just be hopeful in think this will work ? Select Committee Chairs do not just do hope ; they do evidence . I do not think I be just be hopeful . when the age of sale be raise from 16 to 18 in 2007 , the illicit market do not increase . of course , all this — and , as I have say , we must continue to give help to current smoker to quit — need funding . I welcome the investment of £ 70 million a year for the next five year into stop - smoking service , but that be a lot of money , so I can not for the life of I see why minister do not look again at the Khan review call for a " polluter pay " principle in the form of a tobacco industry levy . let we make that a reality . let I turn to vape . the Bill get 10 out of 10 for intention , but on plan enforceable action I be not so sure , because we just do not know enough . increasingly , the genie be already out of the bottle — or out of the unknown , untested , bubble - gum flavour canister — when it come to vaping , but the kid be not alright on this . let we make no mistake : user be mostly youngster , who these day will seldom even think of try the fag . vape be no long only or even principally aim at adult who be try to quit cigarette . just when smoking by child be decrease , vape by child have start to rise hugely . between 2018 and 2020 , vape rate double . the benefit of vaping as a safe option for those who currently smoke tobacco be clear , but it be also increasingly obvious that for those who have never smoke it be certainly not risk free . the World Health Organisation have say that vape be harmful . school be worried , as colleague will hear from any headteacher in their constituency . in my Committee ' s oral evidence hear on vaping , our witness repeatedly raise concern about the health and behavioural effect of vaping - lead nicotine consumption and addiction in school , include on concentration in class . the long - term effect of vaping be simply not know , so I cautiously welcome the fact that the Bill take power to crack down on youth vape through regulation to restrict flavour , point - of - sale display in retail outlet and packaging . however , I can not go far , because the Bill state throughout : " the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision " , and by virtue of the fact that we do not have those regulation before we , it be hard to get a sense of their scope . in wind up , will the Minister update the House on when we might see those reg ? I be pleased to see the new excise duty on vape product to discourage non - smoker and young people from vape . I know that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will lead on the ban on the sale and supply of disposable vape , and that the draft Environmental Protection ( single - use Vapes ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 be out for consultation until the end of March . again , I would be grateful if the Minister update the House on when that legislation will be take forward and whether the Bill must first receive Royal Assent ? obviously , I understand the environmental case for a ban on disposable , but I have concern about we take away a ladder for adult smoker to climb down . we must be super careful not to tip adult who use vape to quit cigarette back to smoking by take away option . there have be some talk of a retail licensing scheme — we hear the Secretary of State refer to it early . we could perhaps disregard such a scheme if we go down the road of a prescription - only model for vape so that they be use only under clinical guidance to help adult smoker to quit . in truth , I do not think our current regulatory environment , courtesy of the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency , make it easy to bring a prescription vape to market . the speed of innovation in the sector alongside the slowness of regulation would make it a real challenge for provider , and unless Ministers address that , I do not see how we advance that cause . we will hear today — we certainly have in the medium — about ban thing . we will hear about the nanny state , and perhaps even an echo from the distant past about Anglo - Saxon England . well , as the MP represent the capital of the former Kingdom of Wessex , I do not hold much truck with that . I prefer to listen — fool that I be — to the four chief medical officer of our nation , who say : " to be pro - individual choice should mean be against the deliberate addiction of child , young people and young adult to something that will harm they , potentially fatally . " I have always believe that in a publicly fund healthcare system we have a right and , indeed , a responsibility to act on public health , because it become everyone ' s problem when we do not . conservative for whom a small state be their thing — although I can never pinpoint which part of the state they do not want their constituent to have — should be right behind a healthy society , because it be one that need the state less , rely on the state less and cost the state less . in the light of the important point that I have try to cover , I will vote to give this important and historic Bill a second reading . I support the Bill in principle , and will vote for its Second reading later , because it be an anti - smoke measure . smoking be the forgotten killer of our society , and the Bill contain initiative against child vaping that I and other have be urge for some time . let we not be in doubt : the Bill will pass , but it will pass with Labour vote , so I will direct my remark to its shortcoming . the Bill be late , it be slapdash and it make several big mistake . it seem to have more to do with the Prime Minister ' s legacy than with the need for effective intervention against smoking . disposable vape arrive in this country and start the youth vape epidemic during pandemic lockdown , the last of which finish three year ago . the Prime Minister be concerned about it only now , with his time in no . 10 draw to a close but very little to show for it . the Government be too slow and slack to get out in front of the issue . even after three year , they do not have precise proposal for vape regulation to put before the House . as other have say , no consultation have be conduct and nobody be sure what exactly need to be do — although we all know that something must be do . child vaping , fake vape , fake cigarette that be even more harmful than real one — these be public health disaster , but they be already illegal , so will not be deter any more than they be now . what do the Bill do for the 6 . 4 million exist smoker ? nothing . in 2019 , the Government set a target of bring prevalence down to 5 % by 2030 . that be a stretch target and be to be applaud — it be ambitious , but it could have be do . instead , the Government have drop all mention of it , and be cover their track and distract we with the generational smoking ban , which will do nothing to help those who already smoke . what we really need be relentless , thorough and inescapable enforcement , include massive boost to the resource of trading standard , so that local council can blast the crime gang out of their neighbourhood and keep they out . the fact be that most vape sell to our child be already illegal . it be illegal for they to be sell to under - 18 , to have tank exceed 2 ml and 600 puff , to not carry the right warning , and to be sell without MHRA approval . while enforcement remain feeble , the disposable ban will make little difference . I be listen closely to what the hon . Gentleman say because I share his passion for drive cowboy out of this industry . do he recognise my observation that those in the industry , and particularly small shop owner , who be quite often from ethnic minority group , be equally keen to have great level of enforcement because they want to drive the cowboy out as much as we do ? the hon . Gentleman jump to a point that I will cover later in my remark . Most of the vape be sell to our child be already illegal . while enforcement remain feeble , the disposable ban will make little difference . the Government be offer £ 10 million per year for three year to trading standard . that would be good if there be only 20 trading standard department across the UK ; unfortunately , there be 197 , so the offer be pure tokenism . under the generational smoking ban , the Government want to make every shop worker a target for every shopper , just to cover their own failure , shopkeeper in my constituency be greatly concerned about the pressure this ban will place on they as retailer and on their staff . retail worker already suffer unacceptable behaviour from customer on a daily basis , which will only get bad . age - restrict sale be the big cause of violence against staff , apart from shoplift . this ban place often disadvantage worker at threat of risky and dangerous working environment . smoking be a major driver of health inequality . disproportionate number of sufferer of smoking - relate disease be from more disadvantaged background . many be dye - in - the - wool , hardcore smoker . they should give up — they know that — but most of they be not able to do so . none of they think that smoking be healthy or safe , so it be urgent that wherever possible they be help to transition to less dangerous form of nicotine such as vaping , nicotine pouch and heated tobacco product . no one alternative suit every hardcore smoker . it be an ideologically blinker mistake to prevent future under - age smoker — those we can never stop — from access relatively safe heated tobacco product . I have state before in this House the relative benefit of htp . I say early that this Bill do nothing for exist smoker ; incredibly , this provision actually make thing bad for they . a pragmatic policy would have seize the potential of all these alternative , not just vape , and a smoke - free 2030 could have be a reality . instead , the Government be play with people ' s life and make the perfect the enemy of the good . finally , the Bill also overlook the highly carcinogenic scourge of paan and betel in the south asian community . only a targeted , community - specific intervention would have any effect in tackle those scourge — I have be draw attention to they for year . we have wait year for primary legislation on tobacco , but it seem that our need have again be overlook , and south Asians will remain at the back of the queue for year to come . I will support the Bill on Second Reading , but there be huge room for improvement . in particular , trading standard should be give the tool it need to break the hold that illegal product already have on the market , and while we still have smoker , heated tobacco product should be remove from the generational ban as part of a broad range of less harmful alternative . I must say that all those ethnic minority shopkeeper be concerned but supportive of this move ; they believe that the ban should be in place , but that they should be support . they feel strongly that at present , not enough support be come from the Bill and the Government . I hope that the Government will take on board some of what I have say , and that the Bill will emerge much amend on Third Reading . when I be appoint Health Secretary in 2021 , we be still in the midst of the pandemic . that challenging time teach we so much about the strength and resilience of our nation , but it also cast an uncomfortable light on truth that we have too often choose to ignore . in the past , this country have be at the cutting edge of preventive healthcare , but while we have talk a good game on that issue in recent decade , in truth , we have not always deliver . I would argue that we still face a public health emergency in this country — one that consume 40 % of the NHS budget , ensure that regional inequality persist , and limit the life chance and opportunity of individual right across our country . this public health emergency have many cause , and at the top of the list must be smoke , especially of cigarette . that be why I commission Javed Khan to lead an independent review of smoking . I be immensely grateful to he for his excellent work and I be proud that he have lead we to this legislation . the title of his report , " make smoke obsolete " , be the right mission for we to deliver on , especially give this Government ' s commitment in 2019 to a smoke - free Britain . one of the most important problem Javed Khan identifie be the dual impact of tobacco and nicotine . first , it be incredibly damaging to the health of individual . as we have hear from so many right hon . and hon . member , no amount of tobacco be safe . secondly , it be corrosive of personal liberty and agency . smoking remain the big single cause of preventable illness and death in this country , cause , as we have hear , some 80 , 000 death a year . smoker be 36 % more likely to be admit to hospital and to need social care 10 year before non - smoker . it cause one in four cancer - relate death . behind each of these statistic be an individual life , a family and a community impact by poor health . it be therefore only right that we take robust action to protect future generation from these harmful product . as Javed Khan rightly highlight in his report , the public be often lead to believe that smoking be a personal choice , whereas the reality be that nicotine be a highly addictive drug that corrode personal agency . four in five smoker start before the age of 20 and remain addicted for the rest of their life . as we have hear , many people want to give up smoking , and we have hear some personal story in the House about just how hard that have be , and how many people , sadly , do not succeed . many struggle to break free from addiction , and the average number of attempt of those who eventually do successfully quit be 30 . I know that some hon . member have publicly express their reservation about the proposal before we , and we have hear that in this debate , but can we honestly say that this drug enhance personal liberty and freedom ? it be a nonsense argument . anyone who make that argument be choose to stand up for big tobacco against the interest of their constituent , and to erode people ' s personal liberty and remove their freedom to choose by give they access to a drug . this drug diminish economic freedom , and it diminish the wealth of individual and of our country . its overall impact across the country be to reduce opportunity and to drive social challenge . indeed , if cigarette be first manufacture today , they would obviously never get through consumer product safety testing . give that we be where we be and give what we know , it be of course right to protect future generation from this drug and this addiction . freedom from pain , disease and inequality be one of the great freedom there be , and whether it be tackle burn injustice , level up or even the big society , these mission be more than compatible with the legislation before the House . this be a world - lead proposal back by clinical evidence and support by a strong moral cause . as survey have show again and again — and , again , just recently — it be strongly support by the general public of all age . it be the right approach to public health , it be the right approach for our country and it be more than worthy of the support of this whole House . first , I want to put on record my thank to the public health Minister the right hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) and the chief medical officer Sir Chris Whitty , who spend time answer my question and those of some of my colleague . it be a very collegiate exercise and I be grateful to the right hon . Lady . it would be good to see more of that . the Government proposal on vape be an absolute no - brainer and be consistent with Liberal Democrat party policy that be adopt at our conference last year , include the ban on single - use vape on environmental ground . parent and teacher in St Albans be particularly concerned about the insidious marketing of vape to young people : the colour , flavour and packaging be design to appeal to child . early in the debate the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) talk about child gather in toilet , desperate to use their vape . I be aware , unfortunately , of one example in my constituency where child have gather in toilet not just to use the vape but to take they apart to use as container for smuggling in more dangerous substance , thereby use the vape as a new gateway drug . I therefore entirely support the Government ' s proposal on the regulation of vape . the question of a so - call smoking ban on those age 15 and young , stop they be sell cigarette , be not so straightforward , however . for Liberal Democrats there will be a free vote on this Bill ; there be some good liberal argument to be make both for and against it . I will be support the measure in the Bill , but some of my colleague have remain liberal and practical concern . for example , in 30 year ' time how do somebody prove they be 46 and not 45 without a driver ' s licence or a passport ? how can we prevent abuse at retailer , too ? I hope the Government will be provide more reassurance to colleague on these issue . do the hon . member accept that that difficulty put the onus on the retailer , who be mean to distinguish between a 45 - year - old and a 46 - year - old , and if they do not do that or they do so incorrectly , they could find themselves face with a fine ? be that fair ? colleague across the House have genuine concern about that point . I know from engagement in my constituency that a number of retailer already suffer attack when challenge people wish to buy other age - relate product , so I hope the Government will offer reassurance about what they intend to do to tackle that . as I have say , I will be support the measure in this Bill , but come to that decision be a bit of a journey for I . my first reaction on hearing of the Bill before it be publish be indignation , because the measure be just a drop in the ocean in term of what be need to tackle cancer . one in two of we will get cancer at some point , yet the Government have miss their target to provide fast cancer treatment every year since 2015 and have drop their 10 - year cancer plan . what we need be research in rare cancer , outdated cancer scanner update , cancer nurse and effort to tackle waiting time . it would perhaps have be well if the measure in this Bill have be a single clause in a much broad Bill . to be honest , I be frustrated that so much energy be go into this Bill , which could be describe as low - hang fruit , rather than into produce a much more ambitious plan to tackle cancer more broadly . we need to see more ambition in this area . my second reaction be the raising of my liberal hackle . liberal be not libertarian ; we do not object to all ban . liberal support ban as a last resort , but not as a first lever . the situation here be frustrating , however : it be a bit rich that the Government be bring this Bill forward when they have simultaneously be slash public health budget , include for smoke cessation programme , since 2015 . even with the new money the Government have put into smoking cessation programme , the fund still fall far short of 2015 level . we also know that smoking rate among young people have drop very quickly ; they be now down to 1 % and continue to drop . liberal do sometimes back ban when a particular product or practice cause excessive harm , and that be why I have decide to back this ban . fundamentally , I ask myself a simple question : be this go to help reduce the overwhelming harm cause by the significantly dangerous and addictive practice of smoking ? the answer be yes , it be . we know that smoking be dangerous and highly addictive . we know that smoking be the UK ' s big preventable killer , cause around one in four cancer death , include 64 , 000 in England alone . we know that 75 , 000 gp appointment each month be take up by smoking - relate illness . we know that smoking cost the economy £ 17 billion a year through smoking - relate lost earning , unemployment and early death . we know that it come at enormous cost to our NHS , and we know that smoking rate in pregnancy vary hugely , with as many as 20 % of pregnant woman smoke in some part of the country , increase the chance of stillbirth by almost 50 % . that be an incredibly stark health inequality . some people have suggest it could be contradictory for a liberal to support a ban on tobacco for 15 - year - old and young while want to legalise cannabis , but let I say to they that they be wrong . it be entirely consistent for a liberal to want to make harmful product illegal — harmful product such as nicotine in cigarette , skunk and product with high thc level that can cause psychosis — while simultaneously want to have a legal regulated market for less harmful product such as vape for nicotine and cannabis product with low and regulated THC level . in conclusion , do I think this measure be the first or good thing that the Government should be do to tackle cancer ? no . do I think this measure be particularly ambitious ? no . but do I think it be a useful step that will help we to tackle the dangerous health impact of smoking addiction , to improve population health and to take pressure off the NHS ? personally , I do . I remind colleague to stick to the guidance of seven minute , because otherwise I will have to impose a time limit , and it might not be seven minute , which would be annoying for everybody . I start my speech by say that there be some good part of this Bill . the banning of disposable vape and prevent child from start smoking or vaping be something that anyone with a brain — there be perhaps more of they on the Government Benches than on the Opposition Benches — would support . I will address my remark to whether ban all child who be now 15 from ever smoking be the right way to stop they smoking , as well as talk about whether any Government have a mandate on remove personal liberty . I be sorry to see the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) leave his place , because I be about to address some remark to he . it be unfortunate for the quality of debate to label someone stand up to ask whether this measure will be effective as someone who want child to smoke . I be an ex - smoker and I do not want child to smoke ; I just want to pass decent law in this House to ensure that we can reduce the number of young people smoke . that be why , when I look at this ban , I question whether it will work . I put it to the Secretary of State that 20 % of young people say they have try cannabis . those be not my statistic , but those of the Office for National Statistics . that be twice as many as the number of young people who say that they have try tobacco , I think within the past 30 day . if ban work — cannabis be ban — no child would ever have try cannabis . it be illegal not just for those who be 15 , but for all of we , whatever age we be . I go to Aintree this weekend to enjoy the grand national . I be amazed that people be walk around at one of the most heavily police event in the UK openly snort cocaine . it be a class a drug , and the police be do nothing about it . if ban work and the police enforce they , no one be this country would take drug . I therefore question whether ban people who be now 15 from ever start smoke will work . to I , the answer be no . I will move on to the mandate for any MP or any Government in this place to seek to bring in such a measure in advance of a general election . if member go to Washington and have a look at the korean war memorial , they will walk past thousand of name — it be an extraordinary memorial — and at the end there be a bold statement : " freedom be not free " . all the freedom that we enjoy in this country have not be give to we ; they have be fight for . People have die to ensure that we keep those freedom . what we be really talk about today be remove from a group of people in our society — they may be young now , but do not forget that , at the general election after next , some will be 18 and ban from smoking , while some 19 - year - old voter will be able to smoke — the right ever to have the agency to make their own decision . if we believe in freedom , we must accept that people have to be free to make bad decision as well as good one . if we live in a society where the only decision that we be free to make be those that the Government tell we we be free to make , we might as well live in a socialist society — we may as well live in Russia or China . for I , freedom mean the freedom to get thing wrong . my right hon . friend be make some extremely valid point . freedom with responsibility and freedom of choice be surely what the conservative party should stand for . we can think of all kind of reason to ban all kind of thing , but surely the choice of the individual should be paramount . it be not for Government to dictate to individual . my hon . friend be quite right . that be the legal position under the law in this country if we have capacity , no matter how bad the decision we make . constituent have contact I about elderly relative who be make poor financial decision , but because they have capacity they be free to make those decision , albeit bad one in some case . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will not . I have give way once and want to stick to my time . I will not support the Bill , because I believe in freedom . my second point be about mandate . the Prime Minister do not have a mandate to bring forward this legislation , and no Labour or Liberal Democrat mps — in fact , no mps in the House — have a mandate to vote for it , because it be not in our manifesto . we be just month away from a general election . if people believe that this measure be so important , they should put it in their manifesto . the conservative party could put it in our manifesto and let people vote for it . the power that we have in this House of Commons be not ours ; they be lend to we by our constituent between general election . we be quite rightly get to the point where we have to return those power to our constituent and try to persuade they that we have do a good enough job to get they back . before we start give away their freedom and liberty , let we at least give they the opportunity to have a say . there be one addiction in this country that I be even more concerned about than the addiction to nicotine : the addiction of the Government to tell people what to do . I want to live in a free society where I be free to make both good and bad decision . as people go through the Aye Lobby to support the Bill this evening — I shall be go through the No Lobby — I ask they to cast their mind back to the last time we be all wash through the Aye Lobby together on a wave of health and science and righteous hope to keep people safe , which be during the covid pandemic . I be proud of furlough and all sort of thing , but I regret closing school . it be the wrong thing to do , but I be wash along on that wave . I oppose some of the covid proposal . People should look back to that and think , " that be the last time we take people ' s freedom away from they . do we always get it right ? " in my view , the answer be no . we get lot of thing right , but we also make lot of mistake . as people march through the Lobby , they should think about whether in fact they urgently need to support the Bill or whether it should wait until after a general election — we may have a different government then , if poll be to be believe — when the british public will have at least have the question put to they . the addiction of our Government to tell we what to do go beyond whether we should smoke . during covid , they determine who we could go to bed with , whether we could sit in the park and read a newspaper , and whether we could go to work . we be now tell how we can heat our home and whether we can drive an old diesel car in London . unfortunately , we live in a country where those freedom — those freedom that be not free — be be erode every single year of our life . that be not something that I be comfortable with , and it be not something that I be prepared to support . there be good bit to the Bill , but we can not allow the fact that good bit of legislation have be annex to this terrible legislation , which in my view will not work , to force we to support it . the Government could bring in the vaping measure on their own , and I would support they . I just do not support the creep ban on tobacco . when people reach the age of 18 in a free society , they must be free to choose for themselves . I will finish with this . if member find themselves in the No Lobby tonight — I hope I will see a few colleague in there — they should keep in their mind that freedom be the sure possession of those alone who have the courage to defend it . in my view , by vote no tonight , we defend the freedom of our constituent and our country . it be the right thing to do , and I look forward to see as many colleague in there as possible . it be right that the Government bring forward this legislation , but I remind the House that Labour first propose outlaw the sale of cigarette to the next generation over a year ago . it be good to see the Government play catch - up . fresh and Balance , the award - win north - east regional programme dedicate to tobacco control , have find that 73 % of adult in our region support the Government ' s proposal . its director , Ailsa Rutter , say in support of the Bill ' s progress : " Most people who smoke get addicted young … this be about give our next generation a life free of a cancer - cause addiction which … end - up kill 2 out of 3 " . it be very concern that the Government be estimate to be seven year behind their 2030 smoke - free target , and not on course to meet it in the most deprived area of our country until 2044 . I want to concentrate on one of the good tool to help smoker quit , which can contribute to the smoke - free target : vaping . colleague may know that I be a strong advocate for vaping as a way for adult to quit smoking . I be also an officer of the all - party parliamentary group for responsible vaping . as such , for the past few year I have work directly with the industry to promote vaping as an alternative for those who want to give up smoking . I grow up in a household where both parent smoke , but in recent year I have see so many relative and friend , include my late husband , make the switch from be heavy smoker to use — I stress this point — safe vaping product . every minute , someone be admit to hospital due to smoking . someone die from a smoking - relate death every eight minute , and more than 6 . 5 million adult still smoke . although it be not risk - free , vaping be 95 % safe than smoking . however , I would never advocate that someone who do not smoke , or who have never try to smoke , should start vape . I stress that vape be a tool for help smoker to quit . it be unequivocal that under - 18 should not use or have any access to vape product . youth vaping be a major area of concern . it be shameful that in 2021 the Government vote down a Labour amendment to the Health and Care Bill . the rise in young people use vape be of great concern to the legitimate vaping industry in this country . everyone realise that something need to be do to stop this trend , especially as exist law be not be enforce . one in three vape sell in UK shop be estimate to be illicit , so it be imperative that the Government act against the illegal vape market . the industry itself have put forward many good proposal to prohibit the sale of vape to minor , halt the illegal market and support the view that vaping should be a tool for smoker to quit . the industry produce a set of proposal to amend the Tobacco and Related Products Regulations 2016 , to ensure that packaging and marketing be regulate and not aim at child . I would like to share the view of the UK Vaping Industry Association , in the hope that its observation may be consider as the Bill progress . a major concern be that the impact assessment report by the Department of Health and Social Care fail to consider the potentially detrimental effect of restriction on current vape user and smoker look to switch . it be important that the regulatory measure be thoroughly assess to ensure that they do not inadvertently hinder smoking cessation effort and lead to an increase in tobacco - relate harm . I support the industry ' s call to include a vape retailer and distribution licensing scheme in the Bill . the industry have develop a comprehensive framework for such a scheme , which be design to deal effectively once and for all with the issue of under - age and illicit vape sale , a situation the industry believe will only get bad give the predict rise in black market sale as a result of the propose ban on disposable vape . I make a plea for the Government to consult more closely with the industry than they have do in the past to ensure that a workable regulatory and legislative change can be make . it be worth remind the House that , accord to the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities , the good estimate show that e - cigarette be 95 % less harmful to our health than normal cigarette and , when support by a smoking cessation service , help more smoker to quit tobacco altogether . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Sir Jake Berry ) for his speech and for mention the word " freedom " . it be really important that we do that . I be not come at the debate from a libertarian perspective — more of a practical one — but , in essence , I agree very much with the majority of what he say . as an ex - smoker , I share the Prime Minister ' s aim of reduce the prevalence of smoking . I never want to see anyone , especially young people , pick up this dangerous habit . it be therefore with some sadness that I rise to explain why I do not expect to follow he into the Lobby on this vote . my great reservation be that the Bill be impractical and could easily make thing bad through unintended consequence . there be 5 million user of vape product , and there be a substantial risk that restrict the use of vape will lead to they move back to smoking , increase the burden on our health system . vaping be recognise by Public Health England as 95 % safe than tobacco use . late last year , a study by Brunel University London reveal that if half the number of adult smoker switch to vape it would save the NHS more than £ 500 million a year . the potential restriction on the flavour of vape , which the Bill give Ministers the power over , could also have unintended consequence , as state in the Department of Health and Social Care ' s own impact assessment . restrict vape flavour would mean around three quarter of the 1 million adult who vape could be affect in some way . a further study , publish by Bristol University , consider the impact of remove all flavour on non - smoke young people and adult smoker use vape as a quit aid . the study find that as a result of the flavour ban , more adult would be at risk of smoke tobacco cigarette . flavour vaping be a smoking cessation tool . I can testify to that from my own experience , have choose mango flavour over the unpleasant tobacco flavour on offer in the market . furthermore , the illicit cigarette share of the market be officially 11 % , up from 8 % five year before , and have be on an upward trend over the past decade . far high level of illicit produce can be find in constituency contain less affluent area . dangerous , illegal and untaxed nicotine product be also easily and widely available across the country . during a test purchase exercise I attend in my constituency , we find 21 retail outlet sell harmful , illicit or counterfeit cigarette ; illicit price as low as 35 % to 45 % of legal price ; illegal vape available in up to 24 ml tank size , when the legal limit be 2 ml ; and british packaging and safety requirement on product not follow . the consequence be that people buy unregulated cigarette and vape , particularly counterfeit one , be risk their health greatly . the profit generate be take by criminal rather than legitimate taxpaye business . no excise be pay on these illicit product , illegal distribution network be deeply embed into the black market and the dissuasive effect of high taxation be evade . although penalty have be increase , the huge disparity between those for tobacco smuggling and those for smuggle drug will continue to attract criminal gang , because it be a relatively low - risk form of organise crime . I believe that , sadly , the funding surge for trading standard that be announce early in the debate will not be sufficient to tackle those issue . furthermore , nothing in the Bill will help the 6 . 4 million exist smoker . indeed , by treat heated tobacco product and certain type of vape in the same way as cigarette , it decrease the chance that those who smoke will switch to a less dangerous alternative . I would have prefer the Government to focus on the Smokefree 2030 ambition that be aim at those exist smoker . finally , I believe that the Bill be unenforceable and will put undue pressure on legitimate tobacco and vape retailer . those point be raise with I recently by shopkeeper at a parliamentary Association of Convenience Stores event . all the shop owner who speak to I be genuinely concerned about the violence and verbal abuse to which they would potentially be subject for try to enforce the age limit set by the Government , and they also feel that they would lose more revenue to shop in their area sell illegal vape and cigarette . while I believe that the Bill be well intentione , it risk have an effect that be the reverse of what it be try to achieve , and that be why I will reluctantly vote against it . let I first put on record that I work in respiratory medicine for 20 year before come to this place , and every single patient I treat regretted be where he or she be . let I also put on record my thank to Javed Khan for his excellent report . it be important for we to follow the science and the fact in this debate , and to ensure that we take the harm reduction approach that be so necessary . the Bill be both bold and the right thing to do . smoking kill one person every five minute in the UK , and kill 7 . 69 million people globally every year . it be a lead cause of preventable death and disability and be responsible for one in four cancer death , alongside heart and circulatory disease and stroke . we must do everything we can to prevent the tobacco industry from exploit another generation to max out its profit , leave people financially impoverished and in poor physical health . public health team need the resource that be necessary to support adult into a smoke - free future , and I echo what the hon . member for Dewsbury ( Mark Eastwood ) say : we need a focus on resource to achieve that . in my constituency 9 , 100 people continue to smoke , and they deserve well . we need a targeted approach , because passive smoking be still costly to people ' s life . we know that smoking in pregnancy be harmful to the unborn ; we also know that it target the very poor in our society , drive great health inequality , and affect people with mental health condition as well . it be urgent , indeed imperative , for the Government to turn their attention to address the inequality that be see in all area of healthcare . let I now turn to the issue of vaping . York ' s school survey show that 19 % of child have try vaping , while 5 % in the city vape regularly . school be battle to stamp out the practice . while much of the detail in the Bill will be set out in secondary legislation , I urge the Government to go toe to toe with the approach take on tobacco product : plain packaging , health warning , and no designer product , attractive flavour , description or colour . when it come to sale , the approach should be no less stringent , put product out of sight and out of mind . the aim must be to create a vape - free generation too . I urge Ministers to address the reason why Gen z have turn to vaping on a large scale , to develop the intervention that be need to help they make well choice , and to expose the blatant exploitation by vape company that profit from the creation of a new generation of addict . we be yet to know the extent of the translation of non - nicotine vaping to nicotine - base product , but researcher be examine the relationship between vaping and move on to tobacco product , and it be extremely worrying . clearly , the industry have work out the correlation . to profit , it need the next generation to be addict to its good — to nicotine — so non - nicotine vape must be see as the first step for those move into form of nicotine addiction . where I believe the Bill fall short be in its approach to adult take up vaping . as the Minister recognise , vape be see as an important public health measure to stop smoking , so there must be great ambition to prevent people over 18 , as well as those under 18 , from start vaping , yet the Bill be silent on that . we know that vape be not harm free , and I urge the Minister to broaden her ambition for a nicotine - free generation by institute vape cessation programme through a public health model . where people be allow to vape should be no different from where they can smoke . indeed , people who already have poor respiratory health be impact by vape . therefore , let we make thing simple by introduce one set of rule for public place such as bar and so on , and for private vehicle where they be child . . may I urge the Minister to look again at the enforcement proposal ? I support investment in strengthen local authority ' trading standard team . the team in York have just seize 1 , 000 vape , worth £ 13 , 000 . they need funding and the tool to do their work . I question the paucity of the fixed penalty notice , which be just £ 100 . this be not a sufficient deterrent for illegal trader , and I urge the Government to increase the amount and review it annually . place that in secondary legislation would enable more flexibility . that take I to my last point about where I believe the legislation fall short . a vape company come before the Health and Social Care Committee . it promote its product through a relationship with Blackburn Rovers . the argument it use for do so mirror those that the tobacco industry have propagate for decade . we see right through they — we test their reasoning and they fail at every turn . there must be an outright ban on all form of vape advertising for nicotine and non - nicotine product , and it should be no less stringent than the ban on tobacco advertising . we must legislate for a complete advertising ban , and I trust that the Minister will look at that when bring the Bill into Committee . the reason why I sound the warning bell be that the limitation on the available science do not mean that there be none . the Health and Social Care Committee have meet academic at the University of London who have undertake a study of 3 , 500 sample of tissue to show that vaping can cause change in epithelial cell in the oral cavity . they want to look at lung tissue , but access be available only via a bronchoscopy . they observe dna methylation change , which provide a very early indication that cell will grow more quickly and be biomarker for early identification of the onset of disease , such as cancer . in research the impact of smoking on tobacco user , the researcher have also demonstrate the impact of vaping . this powerful , peer - review research be the first of its kind . I urge the Minister to read the paper by Professor Martin Weschwendler and Dr Chiara Herzog . smoking kill , and while vaping may be less harmful than smoke , it be not without significant risk . we can not use ignorance — the excuse use by past government — as a reason for get this wrong . we must follow the science , be on our guard and recognise that where people be be exploit , it be the duty of this Parliament to protect they . this industry be drive by a profit motive — one of exploitation . it be our job to protect our constituent . everyone would like to see a cessation of smoking . People stop for good , let alone start at an early age , would bring long - term health benefit to the nation as a whole . sadly , the problem be that this Bill will not be the vehicle to achieve such an ambition . it be a Bill write by non - smoker for smoker , and it be so out of touch with the cause that they want to cure that it will miss its target by a very long shot . first of all , the Bill do not ban smoking ; it only stop the sale of tobacco to 18 - year - old if they turn 15 this year . we hear today from the Secretary of State that 100 , 000 child already start smoke every year . the sale of tobacco be already ban for those child . the Bill be base on the premise that child today still ask their mate ' s old brother to buy they some cigarette from the corner shop , like they do back in the 1980 . they do not . the vast majority of regular smoker today only ever buy their cigarette from the corner shop when they have run out of illicitly buy cigarette . if people do not believe I , they should pop into any pub in the UK and ask the smoker whether they buy tax - pay cigarette from the supermarket and the corner shop . I guarantee that the vast majority do not . in every community there be avenue to buy illicit cigarette at a fraction of the average price of £ 15 for a pack of 20 cigarette from the corner shop . a recent poll of 12 , 000 adult smoker find that the illegal tobacco market remain resilient in the UK in spite of the number of overall smoker decline year on year . on that basis alone , the illicit market be increase . the study find that 76 % of those 12 , 000 smoker buy tobacco in the last year that have not be subject to UK tax , with nearly one in two smoker have no objection to buy non - UK - duty - pay tobacco from family , friend , colleague or shop . the poll also reveal that 9 % of smoker who buy tobacco through social medium or website advertise cheap tobacco do so at least once a month . evidence from around the world show that when we put further restriction on people , smuggler and gang take over where the Government have leave the market . South Africa ban the sale of tobacco during the pandemic and it be now struggle with the gang and smuggler who cover 93 % of the market there . in Australia , as mention early , there have be a rise in the number of young people smoke , and retailer there have be fire - bomb when corner shop have refuse to stock illicit tobacco . child do not buy £ 15 packet of cigarette either ; they buy illicit tobacco from the same source in the community — the smuggler and gang . the Secretary of State say that the Bill allocate £ 30 million to trading standard . that be a drop in the ocean . trading standard be not just a sick department ; it need life support to come anywhere near to achieve the task it already need to achieve . that £ 30 million still leave it with a shortfall of £ 78 million on its budget in 2009 . spend on trading standard in 2009 be £ 213 million . this year it be freeze at £ 102 . 5 million , and between 2009 and 2016 the number of trading standard officer fall by 56 % . the Chartered Trading Standards Institute have warn that cut have create a " postcode lottery " of provision and call for an urgent review of how trading standard be resource . my right hon . friend be make some extremely important point . he seem to be say that , however laudable and well intentione the Bill be , it be impractical and unenforceable because there be insufficient funding for trading standard to make it happen in reality . that be exactly what I be say . the Government ' s aim to create a generation of smoke - free people as time progress just will not work . it be not work now when it be already ban for those 100 , 000 young people who take up smoking every year . in 2021 , trading standard seize just over £ 7 . 8 million in illicit tobacco . this be from the UK Government ' s own guesstimate that illicit tobacco account for more than 16 % of the market , result in a loss of £ 2 . 8 billion — billion , not million — in tax and duty . we have hear that the Bill be base on the New Zealand model . New Zealand do not have an illicit tobacco problem like we do here in the UK . it be 2 , 500 mile away from the near big trader , Australia ; the UK be 23 mile away from the continent . the two country can not be compare . the New Zealand model have now fail , and it have perform a u - turn , as we have hear . instead , the New Zealand Government continue to support initiative to provide people with practical tool and support to help they to quit , include by ensure the provision of effective service to stop smoking , provide access to alternative product to help smoking cessation , and promote social media marketing campaign to stop smoke and vaping . the Bill provide little guidance or support on cessation to those who already smoke . I myself be one of the 6 . 4 million smoker here in the UK , but I stop smoke just over a year ago . I find very little help or support from the Government , despite all the hype around what be be do . in fact , I try virtually every product on the market to give up smoking — even hypnosi — and the only one that eventually make I give up be heated tobacco . that product , however , be not include in the Bill as a cessation tool . instead , its sale to young people be to be ban . even the Kiwis recognise what a great cessation tool it be and do not include it in their ban . instead , they put it in their arsenal of tool and recognise its benefit for cessation . in Japan , where 18 . 6 million people smoke , 25 % of ex - smoker quit use heated tobacco , and Japan be already see the health benefit through its health system . similarly , more than half of the ex - smoker in the country with the low smoking rate in the world , Sweden , have quit use something call snus , which be already ban here in the UK . ironically , the Government have put all their egg into the vape scene for cessation but 30 % of those people who vape still smoke cigarette . not only that , but although Public Health England refer to alternative nicotine delivery device , such as vaping product , the Bill do not include heated tobacco , which be deliver via just such a device . to summarise , the Bill be not cut out for the Government ' s ambition . it follow a fail model that be devise in New Zealand , which do not have the UK ' s issue with illicit tobacco . we will depend on a morsel of cash go to an incredibly stretch trading standard , which be operate on a budget that be half what it be 15 year ago , to police and enforce the policy in the Bill . the legislation underestimate the scale of the illicit tobacco trade already in the UK and will promote it even more in future . it also fail to promote cessation to the current 6 . 4 million smoker in the UK , and fail to recognise the many more product for people to use to quit that be well than cigarette , such as heated tobacco . it fail on every level . finally , if the Government , and indeed this House , be serious about stop people smoke , why not just set an arbitrary date in the future when smoke , in respect of either partaking or selling , will be ban completely ? that will give we time for serious investment in cessation and will also give a serious amount of time to invest in stop the illegal gang and smuggler . rise — I remind colleague that if they go quite a long way over the guidance , it do mean that other will have less time to speak . the guidance be seven minute . I draw attention to my role as a vice chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health , an APPG that support this Bill and in particular the commitment to create a smoke - free generation by raise the age of sale for tobacco . this will be the most impactful public health intervention since the introduction of smoke - free legislation under the last Labour Government . the Bill be particularly welcome after year of Government inaction on tobacco , which have put we well behind schedule for achieve the Smokefree 2030 ambition . accord to Cancer Research UK , we be currently not on track to be smoke free until 2039 , which be almost a decade later than plan , and it will be even later for the most deprived . I welcome the new funding commit to local tobacco control activity and national mass - medium campaign , which will go some way towards fix the damage do by more than a decade of cut to public health funding . those cut have fall disproportionately on local stop - smoking service , which be a vital component of our strategy for reduce smoking rate . I be pleased that the Government have now recognise the importance of such service . since the legislation to raise the age of sale progressively by one year every year be announce , tobacco manufacturer have argue that it will be burdensome to business . they have also pay for advertising urge retailer to lobby against the legislation . despite this , a survey by NEMS Market Research for ASH show that more than half of a representative sample of retailer be supportive of such action , compare with only a quarter who be opposed . of course , the tobacco industry have form on try to use retailer to lobby against tobacco law . the Tobacco Retailers Alliance , a trade body 100 % fund by tobacco manufacturer , fund the " save our shop " campaign against the display ban and the " no to plain pack " campaign against standardised cigarette packaging . both campaign use exactly the same argument now be use to campaign against raise the age of sale : that it will put a terrible burden on small business , that it will be impractical to implement and that it will increase illicit trade . both campaign be expose as be front for the tobacco industry , and the subsequent legislation be successfully implement by retailer . indeed , a 2022 survey by NEMS Market Research for ASH find that the vast majority of small retailer report no negative impact on their business due to the display ban or plain pack . my region , the north - east , have be hit particularly hard by the tobacco epidemic , with 117 , 000 death from smoking since the turn of the century and thousand more add each year . that be not to mention the thousand more live with tobacco - relate illness . as in every other region , this suffering be concentrate in the most deprived group and area . although around 13 % of adult in the north - east smoke , the figure rise to 21 % of adult in routine and manual occupation , 28 % of adult in social housing and 41 % of adult with serious mental health condition . in the north - east , we be fortunate to benefit from the incredible work of our regional tobacco control programme . Fresh be set up in 2005 in response to our region have the country ' s high smoking rate . as a result of dedicated and sustained collaboration and investment from local authority and the NHS , smoking rate have fall far and fast in the north - east than anywhere else in the country — 13 . 1 % of the adult population now smoke , compare with 29 % less than 20 year ago . the north - east be a prime example of what can be achieve with an effective regional tobacco control programme . Fresh be now fund by both the local authority and the integrated care board , and that regional funding model be repeat in Greater Manchester . I encourage other region to follow suit . child be especially vulnerable to second - hand smoke , which greatly increase their chance of develop a host of illness . the Royal College of Physicians have estimate that smoking by parent and carer be responsible for around 5 , 000 child be admit to hospital each year , primarily with respiratory condition . that be why I table a private Member ' s Bill in 2011 , aid by the British Lung Foundation , to ban smoking in car carry child . despite the strong public health case for the measure , it be not initially welcome by the Government or the opposition , and it take a long , hard campaign to get it over the line . four year later , in 2015 , legislation ban smoking in car carry child be put on the statute book with strong cross - party and public support . how many time have that offence be prosecute ? that be an interesting question . there have be only a handful of prosecution because the legislation have play an important role in people change their behaviour . YouGov ' s 2008 polling for ASH find that ban smoking in car be support by less than half of all smoker . the proportion have rise to 62 % by the time of my private Member ' s Bill , and to 82 % after the ban come into effect . the lesson to be learn be that support have grow significantly over time for the tough regulation of tobacco . after measure have be put in place , support continue to grow , particularly among smoker . we have come a long way in our attitude to smoking since I become an MP in 2010 . I have enjoy campaign on the issue , but I look forward to the Bill become law before I step down . not only will the legislation prevent future generation from acquire this terrible addiction ; it offer the most direct path to make smoking truly obsolete in our society . I would like to point out three thing at the outset . first , I use to be a smoker . I be probably one of the early adopter of vaping in the UK — certainly I be among they . secondly , I be a member of the all - party parliamentary group for responsible vaping , whose chair will doubtless speak today . thirdly , I draw member ' attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I chair an advisory board to a company that may or may not be do vape . here in the UK , we have be incredibly successful in our smoking cessation policy thus far . in fact , we be the envy of the world with our rate of smoking cessation . yes , we be behind target , and yes , accord to the Khan review , we might not hit the 2030 mark , but we have be incredibly successful . I have travel around the world talk about our success . People ask how we have do it , and I explain that the industry do it : it come up with a fantastic device call a vape . initially it be all a bit dodgy and shaky ; people be mix liquid in Manchester in their bath and it be all very complicated . we get a grip on it , now there be regulation , and provide people be vape legally , it be safe and usable . million of smoker have stop smoke by use vaping device . it be a huge success story . the thing that make I smile the most be the number of child who smoke . back in 1982 , 13 % of 11 to 15 - year - old — secondary - school kid — smoke . I remember it , as I be around then — many of we remember it — and everyone use to smoke behind the bike shed . in 2003 , 9 % smoke , which be good progress . by 2010 , only 5 % of schoolchildren smoke . today , only 1 % of schoolchildren smoke . that be a record of success . it be not a huge disaster that suddenly need a radical change of policy to resolve the issue . in my view , it merely require up the ante on enforcement and messaging , rather than a draconian approach . I welcome the Bill in two way . first , the measure on vaping be pretty strong and pretty good . Most member would agree that we need to look at packaging so that it be not market to child , and we need to look at flavour . we do not need to look at the flavour themselves ; I urge the Secretary of State to look at the descriptor in the relevant part of the Bill rather than the flavour themselves as a regulatory issue . it do not matter to a smoker who wish to quit whether the flavour be call blueberry or anything else . all that matter be that the flavour exist . it do not matter if it have a reference number and a plain package . what matter be that the flavour exist — for example , mango , which be use by my hon . friend the Member for Dewsbury ( Mark Eastwood ) ; I tend to use blueberry — to encourage smoker to shift , but it do not necessarily need to be name on the pack , which could be market to child . there be another key issue on the vaping measure in the Bill . it be unbelievable , but the entire tobacco industry be ready to open its chequebook to pay for Trading Standards and enforcement . the entire vaping industry , include vaping association and retailer , be ready to say , " we don ' t want these cowboy in the industry . we want to drive they out as much as you , because they give we a bad name and it encourage nanny - state politician to meddle and interfere , stop we do our lawful trade . " a vast sum of money be available from the industry to be use by the Government , hopefully directly through Trading Standards , so that Trading Standards do not just have a few million here and there but have hundred of million of pound and hundred of new staff who can do their job and drive the cowboy out of the industry , and we can ensure that we see an end to all the practice that have be mention today . ban do not work . I be not go to make a high - principle speech about freedom , but frankly ban do not work . Bhutan and Malaysia try it , but it do not work . Australia get close to do it with some very complicated legislation , but it do not work . guess what ? smoking rate go up , include smoking rate among kid . New Zealand have a really good stab at it , and then say , " Nah , it ' s unconstitutional and it ' s probably not go to work as well . " ban do not work , so the idea that we , in the United Kingdom , would now be at the vanguard of that be ridiculous . for goodness ' sake , our policy as it stand be work . we just need to do it fast , make more money available for enforcement and get on with change the descriptor to ensure few people be smoke , particularly our child . nobody want our child to smoke . nobody want people to die . the false argument I have hear today that anybody who do not agree with the generational ban be somehow evil and want people to die really upset I . we should not resort to that sort of language . the main reason why I can not support the Bill be the generational smoking ban . I would perfectly happily support the rest of the Bill , but I really can not support that ban . if the Government have be bold enough to say , " right , we be go to ban smoking below the age of 21 " , I would have have huge reluctance but I would have say , " yeah , fair enough . " why ? because we would have be treat people the same . the Bill be make a huge constitutional change by say that two adult will not be treat the same . it be inequality under the law . even in Malaysia , their Attorney General say , " we can ' t do that " , and they be not nearly as civilised as we be here . several other country have come to the same conclusion . I do not know how we have get into this state . it be so unnecessary . there be so many more important thing to be do in the world at the moment , yet now we be in this place . if this Bill somehow get through with Labour ' s support — of course , Labour always love ban ; I get that and that be fine . forgive I for be political , but it be ridiculous to have our Prime Minister , who have enough thing to deal with , put through a Bill , with Labour ' s support . why on earth do that at this stage ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend . surely this should be something that should evolve ? as he have highlight , the statistic show that very few young people now smoke , so we should let thing gradually evolve rather than impose they . after the New Zealand example , be it not clear that a ban simply will not work ? I could not agree more . to conclude , I can not vote for a Bill that treat adult unequally in law . the Bill create a precedent in the United Kingdom of treat people differently — adult human being ; citizen — and of inequality under the law . I can not support that . we be make a huge political mistake . I hope that even at this late stage we can make some amendment or change the way the legislation work . we could at least say that there be a condition — that we will bring the Bill into law , but that it can be enact by a future government only if smoking rate be not , for argument ' s sake , below 3 % by 2035 . in that way we have the political win — we have get the Bill though and it be legislation — but the measure be not actually enact . rise — Order . I have nothing against intervention , but I suggest that if colleague take intervention , they should still stick to the guideline . I rise to speak in support of this important Bill . smoking be entirely harmful and there be no benefit . Cancer Research UK be clear that tobacco remain the single big cause of cancer in the UK , cause an estimate 125 , 000 death per year — one person every five minute . on average , smoker lose 10 year of their life expectancy and face lifelong health complication . despite the protestation of tobacco company , smoking also have a detrimental effect on our economy . action on Smoking and Health estimate that the overall cost of productivity loss and health and care need cause by smoke cost the UK a staggering £ 17 . 3 billion every year . we have come a long way in recent decade in reduce smoking rate . the last Labour Government lead the way on smoking harm , raise the legal smoking age to 18 , ban cigarette advertising in shop and introduce the transformative ban on smoking in enclose public space and workplace . it be now hard to recall just how society ever think that smoke - fill restaurant , pub and tube carriage be remotely acceptable . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not give way at this stage , I be afraid . it be still the case that more than one in 10 adult — around 6 . 4 million people — be smoker . I wish to pay tribute to my constituent , Gower Tan . Gower begin to smoke at the age of 13 . his father be also a lifelong smoker and die early at the age of just 66 from lung cancer . this be devastating for Gower and his family and lead he to give up smoking at the age of 40 . Gower have since become a tireless campaigner for Cancer Research UK — first as an ambassador and more recently as part of the staff team . Gower and his family know as well as anyone the pain and heartache that smoking can cause and the deep sorrow that come from know that the death of a love one be preventable . like my hon . friend , the shadow Secretary of State , I fully support the Bill ' s measure to ban smoking for anyone bear after 2009 , free future generation from the health impact of tobacco . I also welcome the Bill ' s urgently need measure to regulate advertising and restrict the availability of vape to child and teenager . we on the Labour Benches have be call for action on this for a long time . last year , I introduce a ten - minute rule Bill on the advertising of vape to child . one in five 11 to 15 - year - old in England use vape in 2021 , and under - age vaping have dramatically increase by 50 % in the past three year . five year ago , vaping be not a significant concern , but now it be raise with I in every school that I visit . teacher be routinely have to manage the disruption in the classroom that addiction cause . vaping have a really important role in smoking cessation and that role should not be undermine by this legislation , but although vaping be far less harmful than smoke , it be not a harmless activity . last year , 40 child be admit to hospital with vaping - relate issue . there be evidence of respiratory harm and impact on mental health and concentration level . we can see the strategy of the vaping company . they be seek to secure future demand for their product by get child addict today . it be frankly absurd for e - cigarette manufacturer to claim that they be not target child . in display across the country , brightly coloured advertising for vape mimic popular brand and character . flavour such as gummy bear , skittle , tutti - frutti and cherry cola be clearly design to appeal to child and vape be be openly promote to child on social medium . although I support the Bill today , it would be remiss of I not to ask what have take the government so long . they have have repeat opportunity to introduce new regulation on the marketing of vape . my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) put forward an amendment in November 2021 to the Health and Care Bill to ban the branding of vape that appeal to child , while the Electronic Cigarettes ( Branding , Promotion and Advertising ) Bill introduce last year would have ban e - cigarette and vaping product from be advertise to appeal directly to child . these delay will have lead to more child experiment with e - cigarette and become addicted to recreational vaping . today , we have a genuine opportunity to stop the harm of nicotine addiction and free future generation from the health impact of smoking . we on the Labour Benches be clear that we will put the health of child and young people first . a government who can not command the support of their own mps for a flagship piece of legislation should surely step aside , call a general election and allow someone else to do the job . I wish to declare almost an opposite interest : I have never smoke a cigarette or a cigar in my life . I have never even put one to my very lip , yet I be against the Bill . that be not because I have any vested interest in the tobacco lobby or because I be a smoker or an ex - smoker ; it be because I be a lover of freedom , a lover of choice and a lover of information . to I , that be vital . I be neither one of the old member nor one of the young member of the House , but I remember that throughout my time at school the evil of smoking be drum into we . I do not think that any Member of the House , or any person in this country , do not know the evil of smoking , include health degradation and damage to life and family , because it be drum in every single step of the way — as I think it should be , because smoking be wrong . I do not like smoking , and I wish people would not do it , but if we believe in freedom of speech , independence of mind and people make informed choice , we should let people do what they want as long as they have the fact before they — and we do provide the fact . the NHS stop - smoke policy have do an amazing job over the past few decade of ensure that everyone know the fact , so no one can say when they start smoke or vaping that they do not know the full implication of what they be do — they do . we know that they do because , as have already be say , the number of young people smoking have absolutely collapse over the past few decade . my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Adam Afriyie ) correctly mention that only 1 % of schoolchildren smoke . that 1 % statistic be terrible and represent far too many child , but compare to what it be , it be really good news . as I say in my early intervention , child generally do not smoke anymore , so that be not where the battle be . I believe that the battle against smoking have be win — we be just fight the last rearguard action — which be why I think the Bill be fundamentally wrong . it be fight yesterday ' s war , not tomorrow ' s war . the vaping aspect be incredibly important and be what we must focus on . we and the Government need to focus our attention on super - strength vape and marketing to child . that be incredibly important , and I be glad that the Bill go some way towards rectify that . the ban on the free distribution of vape product to under - 18 be also great news . however , we be divide our time between that and focus on a die industry in a bizarrely puritanical way by stamp out some people ' s choice and freedom . who be to say that , in a few year ' time , a 21 - year - old can not celebrate their graduation with a cigar ? if they want to , why not ? why shouldn ' t someone celebrate the birth of a child with a cigar , or maybe with a pinch of snuff ? who be we to say that that be not their choice to make ? who be we to say , " you shouldn ' t celebrate in this way " ? I have many vice , Madam Deputy Speaker . I like a glass of beer or a pint of wine every now and again . I know in my heart of heart that they be wrong for I and probably limit my health , but I drink they . I eat burger and chip , accept that they be fundamentally life - shortening . but do they make my life well ? do I enjoy do it ? yes , and I do so in the full knowledge of what I be do . this be the crux of the matter : we be talk now about cigarette , cigar , snuff or shisha , but what be to stop we from say tomorrow or the next day that burger , red wine and all the little thing that people sometimes enjoy in moderation — that make life worth live — be bad for they ? sometimes people want that bit of enjoyment , but we sit here and say , " no , you can not have that choice ; we know well and we be take that choice away from you . " as long as everyone have the knowledge about what tobacco product do , we should give they the choice — that be terribly important . I be also confuse by the fact that , once again , we be use a sledgehammer to crack a nut by ban all tobacco product . how many people in this country do snuff , say ? not many , so why be we impinge on their liberty ? there be not an epidemic of child take snuff at school , so why be we ban it ? Snuff do not represent a massive health risk or have a huge impact on the NHS , yet we be ban it — that be crazy . we be ban thing that be not have a huge impact on the economy or the health of our nation , and that concern I greatly . a country that have go through this process be New Zealand , which ban tobacco sale . however , it then overturn the ban . if the policy be such a success , why do New Zealand not double down on it and go far ? my big issue with the measure be the roll age of consent , which be fundamentally discriminatory . adult be adult , and they make their own choice and own their failure . a 28 - year - old do not know well than a 29 - year - old ; someone of 18 year and one day do not know any well than someone of 17 year and 364 day . we be create case in which people be unequal before the law , and that be wrong . also , let we not kid ourselves : we know that have a rolling age of consent be completely impractical and unworkable , and it will have to be get rid of . let we be honest : we be not go to have a situation in 10 or 20 year ' time where a 34 - year - old be ID ' d at a tobacconist or a newsagent and tell , " you look 33 , sir . " " oh , thank you very much for flatter I . " it be go to be ban outright , and we know that . this be the thin end of the wedge . it will create inequality in the law , cut down on freedom and fundamentally make life that bit hard for everyone . many year ago , as have be describe , this place be a bastion of puritanism . there be so many roundhead fight the king many year ago in the civil war , but I say that at the moment there be too many roundhead in this Parliament — too many naysayer , too many people ban thing . what we need be a few more cavalier : a few more people try to enjoy bit of life while make informed choice . for that reason , I oppose the Bill , although it do contain some good bit about vaping . we should be fight the next battle , which be fully against vape , rather than waste our time fight yesterday ' s battle . I would like to start with some figure from my local authority area and my constituency . smoking prevalence be currently 9 . 9 % in my constituency — that is 6 , 600 people who be smoke . the total cost of smoking to the constituency be estimate at £ 73 . 2 million : a productivity loss of £ 42 million , social care cost of £ 28 million , and healthcare cost of £ 2 . 9 million . the constituency spend £ 22 . 4 million on tobacco annually , and the average smoker spend £ 3 , 000 a year on tobacco . across Gateshead , the rate of smoking during pregnancy be 10 . 9 % in 2022 - 23 , compare with 8 . 8 % nationally . the smoking rate among adult in different occupation show that the more deprived area be smoke more than those in other area — as always , deprivation come into these thing . there be 688 lung cancer registration between 2017 and 2019 , and we know that smoking cause more than seven in 10 lung cancer case . in 2019 - 20 there be 2 , 707 smoking - attributable hospital admission in Gateshead . there be 825 emergency hospital admission for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and we know that smoking be a key determinant of copd case . as such , I welcome the measure in the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , which will take we one step close to a smoke - free future , and I be pleased to see that my party have pledge to support those effort . create a smoke - free generation will radically level up the health and wealth of our nation , especially in region such as the north - east . the north - east have traditionally have a high prevalence of smoking than the rest of the country , although we have make very significant gain in narrow that gap thank to the tireless effort of local council and NHS trust work together , not to mention Fresh , our brilliant regional tobacco control programme . despite that progress , though , our community still suffer terribly as a result of smoking . as I have say , in 2019 - 20 there be over 2 , 700 smoking - attributable hospital admission in Gateshead — where my constituency be base — and 825 emergency hospital admission for copd . between 2017 and 2019 there be just over 1 , 000 death result from smoke in Gateshead alone . end smoke for the next generation will safeguard they from the suffering that have afflict previous generation . however , we need to do much more to ensure that smoker in the most deprived group be not leave behind as we move towards a smoke - free future . the disparity between different group be even more extreme for people with mental health condition , with smoking rate as high as 26 % for those with depression and anxiety , compare with 14 % of the general population . calculation by action on Smoking and Health show that at the current rate of decline , smoker with a mental health condition will not achieve smoke - free status until after 2050 , around 20 year later than those without a mental health condition . this Bill be a major step in the right direction and will have a profound positive impact on the health and wellbeing of the next generation , but we must go far to tackle the health inequality that continue to afflict the most disadvantaged in our community . I believe it be a noble cause to encourage people to give up smoking or not to take it up in the first place , because we know that smoking be a very unhealthy habit and it be very costly , so I do appreciate the good intention behind the Bill . there be some thing in the bill that I do agree with , but unfortunately I can not support it , and I be go to outline why . it be basically about trust adult to make their own decision in life and to choose their own approach . I believe that should be our approach , and there have be some very good contribution so far on why that should be the case . of course , all society have rule and we have to live by they , but I believe that these rule be unnecessary . this legislation will not stop child from smoke per se . it be aim at they once they reach adult life . that take I back to when I be a teenager , and I remember an elderly lady on one of the till at a local supermarket use to accept see a set of car key as an acceptable form of ID . unsurprisingly , a lot of my friend start to own a set of car key many year before they own car . however , I think we all appreciate the importance of prevent under - age sale . we need the robust enforcement of that , and of course prevention of the illegal tobacco trade , which not only deprive the Treasury of fund but can put people at risk of some very dangerous product . the same apply to vape , and I have be work with the authority locally to clamp down on place that sell they . I remember that once upon a time it be the pupil who hide behind the bike shed to smoke , and then I remember as a teacher that , after the ban come in , which include staffroom , it would normally be the teacher hide there and try to cadge a cigarette . Labour Members have mention some of the previous ban that have come in and some of the action the Labour Government take . I be old enough to remember when the ban on tobacco advertising come in , and there be of course an exemption for Formula 1 . we have speak a lot about vested interest . the boss of Formula 1 be of course a major labour donor at the time , and it do secure that exemption . I would ask they whether they believe it be right to take its cash , and whether it be right to give that exemption . I would be very interested to hear the shadow Health Minister ' s view on that later . to take the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Craig Whittaker ) , would a cut - off date for all cigarette or smoking be easy to enforce than the current proposal , and why should some adult have few right than other ? we must also appreciate the role of vaping . as have be point out , Sweden be a world leader in this . it be down to 5 . 6 % , and when a country get down to the 5 % target it be class as smoke free . yes , it use thing such as snus , which be outlaw throughout the rest of the European Union . it have special exemption , and I believe an opportunity have be miss over the year to use that to cut down on the number of smoker , but vaping have of course provide a highly effective alternative . however , a principle be at stake today , and what I really want to speak about be the principle of one group of adult have right that be different from those of other set of adult . we can compare this to the right to vote over the year , whether under the Representation of the People Act 1918 or the further Act in 1928 . go back to 1884 , 40 % of man , mainly the poor in society , do not have the right to vote . later , when the vote be extend to all man over 21 , woman could vote only if they be over the age of 30 , or if they or their husband have land with a rateable value of £ 5 or more . it be not until 1969 that the voting age be lower to 18 . I remember be elect as a councillor in Nottingham at the young age of 22 , and it be not until 2006 that the age limit for that be change to 18 . again , there be adult at that time who have different right . People have be treat differently on the basis of their religion over the year , such as whether they be a Catholic or a protestant in the 1600 . we have have the Race Relations Act 1965 , where we outlaw people be treat differently on the ground of their colour , race or national origin . then we have equal marriage , of which we have just celebrate 10 year , another example of where adult be equal before the law , to love who they wish and marry who they wish . I believe we be move towards freedom , and that be a good thing : it be about give more right and more equality , not restrict it . the point be that the direction of travel have be about give adult , whatever their background , the right to live their life within the law as they wish so long as they be not impinge on the right of other . that be the right direction , and the right thing to do . as Margaret Thatcher once say , " when people be free to choose they choose freedom " . but what next ? a ban on alcohol , or a ban on takeaway ? I declare an interest in both of those , but both of they be bad for we when not do responsibly . but we be adult , and these be our choice ; these be not the state ' s choice . we need to get back to trust adult to make their own decision in life . I do not like ban thing as a rule — yes , there be always case that we can make , but I do not believe the case have be make here yet . we have already witness other nation dump this idea , include New Zealand , and I do not believe the legislation in its current form will pass the test of time . I believe it be unenforceable . I absolutely support the intention to move towards a smoke - free generation , but I believe there be a well way , and that be why I will be vote against the Bill . it be a pleasure to be call in this debate , although I confess it be one that have depress I , because this be fundamentally illiberal legislation . if I be in the House for any reason it be because I believe in liberalism — in the ability of people to make well choice for themselves than can the state . it strike I that we be witness an encroaching tide whereby ever more of our liberty be take away from we — the speech by my right hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Sir Jake Berry ) be very good on that . we be fortunate in Britain to live in a country where we do not get our right from the state ; we have they inalienably from birth , and it be only the thing that we proactively proscribe that we can not do , but we be add more and more thing to that list . I say that as someone who be totally clear that smoking be a terrible idea , and I would not recommend it to any young person . I have spend a lot of time with Mr Jonathan Ferguson at James Cook University Hospital in Middlesbrough and have see the pioneer work he have do on lung cancer . it be absolutely crystal clear that smoking damage your health and damage your wealth and be an antisocial habit in so many way , but — and it be a big but — I do not believe it be my right to tell my fellow citizen that they can not do it , any more than it be their right to tell I that I can not have a glass of red wine with dinner . these be not thing that the state ought sensibly to be proscribe . I actually think we have reach a relatively sensible point with regard to smoking legislation . not allow smoking in public place where it can impinge on other be very reasonable and sensible , and I do not think anyone would want to go back to the situation before the 2006 legislation . however , whether we smoke at all in private should be up to we , not the state . we risk create a huge philosophical as well as practical problem , which will undoubtedly lead to further right creep as the year go by , because it be likely that the health lobby — the interventionist lobby , as the shadow Secretary of State put it in his speech — will use this as a logic to allow they to move into other field , and what will our ability then be to resist that argument if we have concede it here today ? so there be a profound philosophical problem with this . I also believe that it will in practice be a nightmare for shop worker up and down the country to be ask to enforce this . it will place they in an invidious position , which be likely to lead either to they face real trouble in their shop or , frankly , to they pass the buck and ignore the law , and make a mockery of its exist at all . on the " what next ? " point , when I be Public Health Minister , we bring in the sugar tax with the soft drink industry levy . that encourage the industry to reformulate drink and take quite a lot of sugar out as a result , because industry follow that trend . if we reformulate process food to take a lot of salt out and save a lot of life from stroke , would that be a good or a bad thing ? that would arguably be perfectly sensible , but it be different from a ban . the point be about the degree of harm . I strongly support the ban on illegal drug , but I do so because cocaine , heroin and the like wreck live and destroy community . tobacco do not do that , but we already have enough difficulty enforce the exist ban that we have in place , which already stretch our resource to the utmost . frankly , as we all know , we all too often fail to enforce those ban . add a new ban risk create something that will be unworkable from the outset , while create a huge black market in which criminal enterprise will thrive . meanwhile , the state will have forgo the tax revenue — some £ 10 billion or £ 11 billion a year — that be plough back into our public service , include the health service , to combat the effect of smoking . that revenue simply will not be there anymore . we will likely still have people smoke , but we will have offset many of the revenue stream that allow we to combat it . I simply do not understand how a conservative Prime Minister think it appropriate to bring forward legislation that be the opposite of why we be send to this House , which be to defend and uphold the principle of individual choice and individual liberty . as we have hear , where this legislation have be introduce , it have already be repeal , as in New Zealand . I fear that in this country we will face a choice in the year ahead : either eventual repeal because the legislation do not work or , as my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Alexander Stafford ) say , an outright ban , because of the sheer unworkability of try to ascertain in practice whether the person in front of you in the queue be age 39 or 40 . we will doubtless simply see a Labour Government move towards an outright ban to make the situation simple , tidier and neater . that would be a real red line , but we would have forgo the ability to make the principal case against it . my right hon . Friend say that drug destroy life , but tobacco do not . what about the people who be die from emphysema and long - term lung cancer ? many family in the United Kingdom be see their relative die a long , linger death as a result of use tobacco . with respect to my hon . friend , I say that those drug destroy community . there be a profound difference . the ripple effect of illegal drug be to prompt real social harm to other , because those habit be so destructive that people steal and rob to fund they . tobacco do not do that . it be obviously extremely bad for people , but it do not drive pattern of behaviour as destructive as those associate with crime . that be a fundamental difference , and it be why we should focus our effort on stop those trade , rather than on ban something that have be legal for hundred of year . we all recognise it carry real medical harm , but it be not , I submit , our job to try to take it away from people . we should rely on education and the tax system , but we should not rely on legislation to tell other people what to do when they be grow adult in a free country . I rise in support of the Government ' s Bill . one of the first speaker this afternoon be my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , who talk about his first job in respiratory medicine . my first job as a doctor be in adult respiratory medicine , too , and I spend a lot of time look after patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , intermittent claudication and lung cancer , and that teach I that smoking cause not just premature death , but substantial , debilitate , miserable disability that can go on for many year . I therefore support the Government in do all they can to reduce the number of smoker . some people have talk today about the freedom for an adult to choose to do what they want , but we already make change to what adult can do . we already restrict their freedom . for example , we tell adult that they must put a seatbelt on when they get in the car . they must wear a helmet when they ride a motorcycle . they can not drink alcohol before they get in a car , and they can not drive down the motorway at 150 mph . so we already make restriction for people ' s safety on that basis . I do think that gradually increase the age be inelegant , as my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , put it , and will be challenge to enforce . but the alternative — to ban smoking outright — would be difficult , because it be an addictive substance . if we ban an addictive substance overnight , we would criminalise those already addicted . by do it in advance and gradually increase the age , we will instead not criminalise people for be addict , because they will not get addict in the first place , at least in principle . I want to focus most of my remark on vaping . I have be campaign on vape for some time , because I be concerned about the snowball number of child who be addicted to it . indeed , last year I introduce a ten - minute rule Bill to try to ban disposable vape , which have be the most attractive vape to child and cause the most environmental damage . at the time , 1 . 3 million vape a week be be use — it be now up to 5 million . they be almost impossible to recycle in practice because the lithium battery be difficult to recycle , and the nicotine get soak into the plastic , which make that difficult to recycle as well . I understand the need for adult to have something to help they stop smoking , but vape be not just a stop - smoke device ; we should look at they as an alternative addiction . early in my campaigning , when I speak to the industry , I say , " what be it with all these flavour ? " I be tell , " well , the thing be , if someone try to stop smoke use nicotine gum , they use the nicotine gum — or something — as a stop - smoke device . so they go from smoking , to gum , to nothing . if we give they vape that taste of tobacco or be bland , they go from smoking , to vaping , to nothing . if we give they cherry cola - flavour vape , they go from smoking , to vape cherry cola , to vape mango and to vape blueberry . they remain one of our customer and continue to use our product . " the industry be try to create a new generation of addict to make itself billion of pound . I can understand why the industry want to make the money , but the way it be do so be , in my view , immoral . in particular , its marketing of these thing at child be immoral . a grown - up may wish to have a cherry cola - flavour vape , but he or she do not need to have a unicorn milkshake - flavour cherry vape shape like SpongeBob SquarePants . that be why the flavour be important , and I welcome the Government ' s measure to deal with flavour , colour , shape and packaging . what be the risk of vaping ? as other have say , education be really important on that . for our child , in the short term , its powerful addiction cause problem with concentration , with some have to leave lesson because they can not cope until the end of a double lesson without vape . in some case , as we have hear , it cause chest symptom and can cause collapse . in the long term , the simple answer be that we just do not know . a recent University College London study show that dna methylation — modification of DNA — occur in people who vape . do that show that vaping cause cancer ? no , it do not . time will tell we that , but it suggest at least that it might . that be why we must be extremely careful with our child . adolescent will always experiment with substance because it be in the nature of adolescence to experiment with boundary , but we need to ensure that we take as much care of they as we possibly can . in particular , I welcome clause 10 , which will allow the provision to be extend to other nicotine product . the industry be make billion of pound , and it will continue try to flex to try to keep people addict to nicotine . we can see that today . a search on the internet show that Tesco be sell 20 nicotine pouch for £ 6 . 50 . those tiny pouch of up to 12 mg of nicotine — about 10 cigarette - worth — be place under a person ' s gum and will release those 10 cigarette of nicotine over an hour . they be sell in flavour call " Ice Cool " , Bergamot Wildberry " , " Mocha " and " Elderflower " . do the House see a pattern here ? that will be the next thing , and that be why I welcome the clause , which will allow the Government to reflect , if they want , on new form of nicotine use . I have some question for the Minister . the Health Act 2006 prevent smoke in enclose public space , on public transport and in certain other area . why have that not be extend to vape ? also , as I be walk through Westminster the other day , I see a big red Transport for London bus advertising vaping — something I have write to Sadiq Khan about . I wonder whether the Government plan to extend vaping regulation not just to what the package look like but to the advertising itself . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not , because I have only a minute leave . the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) mention the advertising at Blackburn Rovers ; again , sport advertising while child be watch be not helpful . I have a final question for the Minister . give that this be urgent , we be see so many child start vaping and we want to stop people smoke as soon as possible , why be we wait to bring in the regulation ? why not bring they in to affect child more quickly ? like my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Adam Afriyie ) , I be a smoker for many a year . I give up some 30 year ago and , as I say in an early intervention , it be one of the hard thing I ever do . I wish to God that vaping have be available to I then to help I off what would now be a £ 45 - a - day habit . I certainly disagree that people do not steal to support such a habit , as it be extraordinarily expensive . as we all know , ban thing tend to drive thing underground . as far as I have hear , no one have mention the prohibition of alcohol in America and what that lead to . I consider myself a libertarian Conservative , and I think that the good Government should interfere in the market the least , and spend our taxpayer ' money only when they really need to . as always , the growth of the state be little more than good news for bureaucrat . no one in Clacton have ever look at issue locally and tell I that the solution be new taxis and over - convoluted legislation . however , this be about not dogma but practicality . it be about not ideology but pragmatism , science and economic . there be a number of measure in the Bill that I support . the banning of disposable vape seem timely , give the ecological damage they cause , go to landfill and be strew across our street in countless million . revisit the legal age of vaping and smoking seem to be a logical response to the worrying fact of under - age people navigate their way towards addiction through vape . I be pleased that the Government have listen to I on the subject of nicotine pouch , which my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) mention . let we consider what the science of public health and the recent economic fact have teach we : vape be cheap , available and attractive to many . that be why smoking have dramatically decrease . the recent tax on vape liquid may be regressive if vaping cost start to gain parity with normal cigarette . the free market have do its job and have give the public a cheap and healthy alternative . I would be deeply worried about the unintended consequence of monkey around with that . we also need to step out of this place and consider what work on the ground . no one currently need a licence from their local authority to sell vape or nicotine product . that mean that trading standard team be often a skeleton crew . do we think a complex and incremental age - increase ban be enforceable with such weak enforcement ? it be not . I do not buy the argument that we pay for expand team via increase fine . we do not increase staff headcount base on speculative , one - off cash injection from fine . if we want to clamp down on the very real issue of illegal cigarette and the under - age sale of cigarette and vape , we need a licensing scheme that properly fund trading standard , reward responsible business owner and go after the villain . I could support a ban on sell these product to those under 21 , 18 or whatever . such a ban could hit the Government ' s laudable goal of kill off under - age consumption by get the sale out of teenage year entirely . that be simple and impactful , and be preferable to a law that put the shopkeeper in the firing line , have to interrogate people and turf out the 22 - year - old , while question the 24 - year - old and supply the 25 - year - old . that be clearly nuts . I have speak to retailer in Clacton , and the generational nature of the ban be quite frightening for many . to many it seem like a charter for confusion and confrontation . it also might criminalise people inadvertently . there be a way forward . there be bold step we can take with under - age addiction , without damage the health advancement that the free market have allow we to make . I believe that licensing be the answer . fifteen year of experience of lead and scrutinise complicated legislation tell I to be cautious with the Bill . I strongly admire its aim , but I have some question to set out as to whether it will work . with direct knowledge of cancer and deep commitment to cancer awareness , I want people to smoke less . as we have hear , smoke cause around one in four of all UK cancer death . tobacco , especially cigarette smoking , be the single most important and , as we have hear , preventable cause of ill health , disability and death in this country . I agree with the Bill ' s hope of reduce that suffering . I also desire the Bill ' s aim to realise an economic saving on healthcare , name as more than £ 3 billion in the impact assessment , and a productivity gain of £ 24 billion over 30 year . my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , the chair of the Health Committee , be right that we should be take the long - term view and look for the gain from prevention . for all that to be possible , however , the legislation have to work . I be join today ' s debate — I shall keep it concise , Madam Deputy Speaker — because I care very much about politic and democracy work . as I stand down from Parliament this year , this be one of the final piece of draft legislation for I and it be a significant proposition , so I will raise some point that be all intend to be thoughtful and be base on five term of constituency work and ministerial experience in six department . in one of my past role , I have to undo legislation that I have help to implement , because it do not work . the age - of - sale mechanism in the Bill be the untested thing . it would be the first of its kind in the world , but that accolade would come only because a few have try and fail to carry support . the Bill as a whole have an imperfect evidence base — that be clear throughout its analysis , in particular because we do not yet have the full datum picture about the effect of vaping — so what be in front of we today be inherently risky and theoretical . it be also possible that it may be divisive by ask one group of adult to live under rule different from those for another . I understand that the malaysian equivalent be challenge on equality ground and I would be really interested to know what lesson the Minister have draw from that . it be legitimate to be worry that something so novel may be unfair on retailer . the British Independent Retailers Association point out that the quite sophisticated enforcement need of the mechanism fall on its member . as the Association of Convenience Stores add , the " proxy purchasing of any age - restrict product be extremely difficult for retailer to detect and prevent . " indeed , the deterrent in the Bill for proxy purchasing be just £ 50 , if a person be catch and pay promptly . after my right hon . friend the Chancellor ' s effort at the late Budget , that be actually only the cost of about three or four packet of cigarette . I be therefore concerned that the design of the proxy - buy deterrent in the Bill could be fatally impractical for what be try to be achieve . let we put that in really super - practical term . a person ' s friend , a year old , may well be able to go into a shop or online and get two packet and let their friend have one , and the cost of their do so add up in the end to only three or four packet for themselves . we ought to give considerable thought to that . the British Retail Consortium say that a well policy be need on ID . I agree . I be surprised that the impact assessment say nothing about the impact of individual need to provide ID throughout their life , instead of just up to the age of adulthood . the document , of course , do deal with the cost to retailer of check ID , but it be silent on the burden of ask a particular group of adult to have to prove their date of birth for life . I be talk about those who be or look , and would continue to be or to look , just above the age state in the Bill . healthy or unhealthy , right or wrong , they have every right to buy cigarette and would remain in possession of that right , but they would have to prove it for life under the Bill . when I take the Bill that become the Elections Act 2022 through the House , we be rightly question hard about the notion of ask adult to bring identification to polling station . we acknowledge up front that not everyone hold a drive licence or a passport , and ensure that other form of ID be available , give the importance of people ' s democratic right . this be a slightly different point and I be not make a direct comparison , but for the purpose of retail , free ID — for example , the CitizenCard — be already available . however , it need to be renew every few year , and a new requirement in the Bill mean that it would need to be use for life . I think the Government should have more reassurance to give law - abide people than silence . I say that I strongly admire the aspiration of the Bill . for the sake of all those who be entangle in a lethal addiction , I would like to see smoking stop in this country , so I be not stand here on ideological ground . I be make sensible point about whether the Bill be go to work . we have have — rightly — a wide - range , reflective and constructive debate , but good intention and heroic ambition be not enough . if we be to do something very novel and use the power of legislation to do it , we need to have confidence that the legislation be workable . I hope that my fellow legislator will rise to the challenge that be present by this idea , and will scrutinise it carefully . there be clearly a fair amount of agreement in the House about what we be try to achieve . no one be suggest that smoking be anything other than very bad for people ' s health , and no one be suggest that we should encourage anyone to smoke . we know that , for instance , it pose specific danger to child . there be common ground — a common goal — when it come to where we want to end up with the Bill . however , I believe that a generational ban be the wrong approach . there be a general assumption in the House that we ensure that law apply equally to all adult , but the Bill turn that general assumption on its head by create bizarre , absurd circumstance in which people will be unable to enjoy the same right as other who be a day old than they . no other country in the world have implement such provision . many have consider do so — New Zealand , Malaysia and Australia have be mention — but all of they have decide not to . either they have all get it wrong and we have get it right , or that be not the case , and I doubt that it be the case . this be a classic instance of the " nanny know good " approach to politic , which be incredibly patronising , and will be increasingly patronising , to adult . one of the absurdity of what be , as I have say , an absurd piece of legislation have not be mention so far . the snuffbox by the Principal Doorkeeper ' s chair be pay for by he , so that Members of Parliament who wish to partake of the snuff can do so . in future , any MP who enter the House , and who be currently 15 year old or young , will not be able to do that ; indeed , the Doorkeeper will be commit a criminal offence if he or she provide snuff for that MP . we all want to reduce smoking rate , but this Bill be not the way to do it . the way to do it be through education and the provision of alternative such as vape . the Government ' s " swap to stop " scheme be brilliant — thousand of people have give up smoking as a consequence of it — and many other Government initiative have be tremendously effective in help smoker to quit . I pay tribute to the Government for all those achievement , but we should nevertheless look at what be happen in other country . it be a shame that my right hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Craig Whittaker ) be no long in the Chamber . he mention Sweden , and it be because Sweden have be enthusiastic about allow people alternative to tobacco that it currently have the low smoking rate in the world and , moreover , the low rate of lung cancer in the world . it be not a coincidence . although I accept that there be difficulty with make comparison between different country , Turkey and Indonesia , where smoking rate be increase , be two of the country that have completely ban vaping . in her opening speech , the Secretary of State rightly mention that the smoking rate among young people in Australia be currently go up . in Australia , vape be ban — that be not a coincidence either . vaping help adult smoker to quit and thereby save life . we all want the same thing : few smoker . in order to achieve that , we need to ensure that our legislation be flexible . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for agree that a consultation on flavour will take place , which be very important . I be go to table an amendment to make sure that that happen , but there be no necessity to do so now because of her commitment to the House . flavour be important , because what often happen when smoker give up smoking and start vape instead be that , a couple of week down the line , they get a bit feed up with the vaping they be carry out , so they either go back to tobacco or switch to a different flavour . therefore , have a variety of flavour be very important . I totally concede that have a zingy bubble gum flavour vape be wrong . we should not have any kind of marketing that make vaping attractive to child , but we should have a choice for adult smoker who wish to switch to vaping . we have two type of vaping go on in this country at the moment . first , there be the vaping that be be carry out by smoker who want to stop smoking , and who be vape as a substitute for the tobacco they be previously consume . secondly , there be the other kind of vaping : child use it for fun . we need to tackle that robustly , but we do not need to throw the baby out with the bathwater . when carry out by adult , vape save life and relieve the burden on the NHS . if we care about the NHS — I be sure that everybody in this Chamber do — allow for vape to take place as an alternative to smoking must be the right way . there be a danger that this House could send out a perception that vaping be just as bad as tobacco . if it do that , many people will think , " what ' s the point in vaping ? I might as well smoke instead if they be as bad as each other . " they be not as bad as each other . vaping be considerably safe than consume tobacco , although we do not want child who be non - smoker to take it up . this be quite basic for I . I see the Bill as an opportunity to change the life chance and the life course of thousand of child in the Stroud district , with my two little girl include in the mix . it be not perfect , but it enhance the chance for their little lung and healthy body to grow up to be strong adult . like many , I be intuitively against ban thing and state intervention . I have concern about the implementation , practicality and enforcement of the Bill , but I be less interested in hear colleague slag off each other to help sell book , and more interested in the really spirited debate we have have and in challenge from people such as my right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) , because the amendment that could be table for forthcoming debate will help we . at the heart of this legislation be this great Parliament use the knowledge and evidence that tobacco cause harm , which have build up over decade and decade . when we know that smoke cigarette be addictive , expensive and limit life chance , particularly for the poor , why should we accept the status quo and hope for a natural evolution ? we know that smoking affect life opportunity and that youngster be still smoke , despite everything we have do so far and those awful picture on cigarette pack . when we know all of that , why would we not want to do more ? on the health of the nation , the NHS clearly need reform . I know that politician get shoot down in flame for say that , but it be the reality . the combination of an age population and the billion of pound provide year after year in taxpayer ' cash , which be never enough , mean that serious change be require . so , notwithstanding my concern about this legislation , I view the measure in this Bill as part of a genuinely bold and preventive strategy that we have not see before . this be from a Prime Minister who be know to be characteristically thoughtful and into the detail , the datum and the evidence , so I applaud the PM for take a battering on this in order to try to do the right thing and prevent known harm to child and to young people ' s future . child in Stroud , in Gloucestershire and beyond will benefit from this Bill as they be grow up . all six Gloucestershire mp have the joy and benefit of meet our health expert on a regular basis . they give we a hard time and we give they a hard time ; they be rarely really happy with the Government on all basis , but they have tell we that this policy be one of the most important public health intervention that any Government can make . the health expert also write to we to say that they wholeheartedly support the plan to create a smoke - free generation . they say : " the legislation be need , and proportionate . smoking be the lead cause of preventable ill health and death and the major driver of difference between rich and poor … in Gloucestershire , the smoking prevalence in the most deprived quintile of the county be 22 % and as many as over 30 % of those in routine and manual employment " . that be about 25 , 000 people in our little county . the doctor go on to say : " furthermore , smoking be the lead cause of 10 - 20 year reduction in life expectancy in people with serious mental illness , of whom 38 % of those in our county be addict to tobacco . progression towards a smoke free future will significantly improve the health and well being of those currently in the most adverse circumstance , with nearly 26 , 000 tobacco dependent household in the county " . a note to the self - proclaim freedom fighter : we all love freedom , but addict be not free . they have very limited choice . two third of those who try smoking will go on to continue to smoke for the rest of their life . that be my bit , by the way , about the freedom fighter . it be not our learn doctor who say that . they do , however , say : " this legislation have the potential to avoid the 4 , 653 hospital admission and 690 premature death in Gloucestershire which occur as a result of smoking . whilst this be a novel policy , there be no reason to think it can not be successfully implement . " I do not accept that the UK can not implement the policy . they go on : " the legislation will have a profound impact on society , as transformative as smokefree legislation be more than a decade ago . it be possible to conceive of a future where smoke no long addict and kill thousand of people every year . " I would like to thank Dr Charlie Sharp , our former chief exec Deborah Lee , Dr Richard Makins , Sheema Rahman , Professor Mark Pietroni and the many other who give I the most structured and sensible part of my speech . they know , because they see this stuff every day . my mum be a nurse , and she see it . we can do this , so let we not talk this Parliament and this country down when it come to implement tricky thing . I be look forward to the next stage . my dad use to smoke 60 John Player Specials a day . when he die in 2009 , the last 20 year of his life have be blight by heart attack , by stroke and by dementia — the thing that we know now , and we know then , be exacerbate not by free human choice but by the fact that smoking be an addiction . nobody choose to smoke 60 cigarette a day . addiction force they to do so , and it hit the poorest hard . tobacco ruin life . smoking take away the rational , free , human choice that so many people in this Chamber have defend today . defend smoking be not defend rational , free , human choice ; it be defend addiction , which be the very opposite . every day when we come to this place , we should ask ourselves one question : how can I as a Member of Parliament , how can we as a Parliament and how can the Government do thing that make the life of our constituent well , healthy , happy , free ? Most of the time , I think that Parliament and the Government should get out of the way . there be even day when I think that what we can do most be not say anything . however , we have to ask ourselves : what be the thing that government can do ? there be some thing that only government can do . I will let you into a secret , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Ronald Reagan quote that " the … most terrifying word in the english language be : I ' m from the government , and I ' m here to help " be a joke . Ronald Reagan be be slightly glib when he say that . the real most terrifying word in the english language might perhaps be that there be no government — that there be no operation above our individual choice to protect we , to give we security , and to fulfil the single most important function of government : security . security in term of health be just as important , because the Government exist to make people ' s live happy and healthy . People might think that government be a necessary evil , or that they be a brilliant thing that can expand ever great , but whatever we think , we do not improve people ' s life by get out of the way all the time . tobacco do not have some unique special status . we should ask ourselves why , as a Parliament , we have agree that it be right to have speed limit , seatbelt and motorcycle helmet yet somehow people make a different argument for tobacco . that just do not make sense . some people will say that this Bill be not perfect , and they be right because nothing be , but if people vote against this Bill , or even abstain , they must demonstrate how it would make the current situation bad , and I can not see a single example of how it would do so . some might say that it make some shop unviable ; well , if the viability of a business depend on tobacco , I do not think that it be good for this country for that to be a viable business . some will say that it fuel the black market . that do not seem to I to be an argument at all . we do not legalise crime for fear of it be drive underground ; we in the conservative party put 20 , 000 extra police officer on the street . we fund what we need to do to tackle it . many have say that the problem be a 34 - year - old in a shop be tell , " I be terribly sorry , but you ' re not 35 . " the reality of this approach , and why it be the right approach , be that by the time today ' s 14 , 15 or 16 - year - old be 34 or 35 , it simply will not be viable for those shop to be sell tobacco . it be a way of drive something — a bad thing — out of our society . that can only be a good thing . an addicted life be not a free life . the spurious ground cite for object to this Bill have not demonstrate what need to be demonstrate : that this Bill would make thing bad . the social contract that give we legitimacy in this place be a balance . we have do some thing recently that have test that balance , and today we have a chance to show the 60 % or so people who support this Bill that we be on their side . government should not always be allergic to do thing that be popular , because when push come to shove , yes of course people love freedom , but to exercise that freedom , people need to be alive . I come back to where I start — to my dad . the last 20 year of his life be scar by stroke , heart attack and dementia , all exacerbate by smoking . that be not a free life ; it be a life destroy by addiction for precious little pleasure and a lot of money . we need the freedom to live long , healthy , happy life , with few people die needlessly . that be what this Bill can do for we today . I can not understand why someone would vote against it . I can not understand why they would be indifferent to it . what we should do , surely , be answer the question in front of we as well we can . I can not help but think that if someone be vote against this today , they can not see the human wood for the ideological tree . we have the answer . for all the high - fly argument about the nanny state , the beginning and the end of this debate should be very simple : will people live long , healthy , happy life ? will they be alive ? the Bill will deliver that . I commend it to the House . as a former public health Minister , and a current vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health , I be delighted to speak in this landmark debate today and to support the measure in this Bill . today , the UK take another significant step towards become smoke - free , which will safeguard the health and wellbeing of million of people across the country from the threat of smoking - relate disease . I begin by take member back more than 60 year to the start of this marathon debate — not that many of we can remember 1962 . this be a time when lead political figure such as Harold Wilson and Tony Benn openly smoke during interview ; when we be tell that our doctor ' s cigarette of choice be a Camel ; and when a young american actor name Ronald Reagan , whom my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) have just mention , appear in glossy ad encourage people to send special Christmas carton of chesterfield to all their friend instead of a traditional card . 1962 be also the year when the UK ' s relationship with smoking change . a crucial report publish by the Royal College of Physicians shed light on the devastating consequence of smoking and urgently call on the Government to tackle smoking . this seminal report pave the way for numerous groundbreaking reform , include health warning on pack and a ban on smoking in public place . in more recent year , Government policy to tackle the rise of smoking have largely focus on increase tobacco duty . however , although a packet of 20 king - size cigarette have rise from £ 1 . 68 in 1990 to around £ 17 in 2024 , taxation alone have not solve the problem , with 12 . 9 % of the overall population , and 14 % of the population of my Erewash constituency , still continue to smoke . the impetus for the Government to act now through new legislation to create a smoke - free generation can not be clear . smoking be the UK ' s single big preventable killer . it cause 15 different type of cancer , and it be link to cardiovascular disease , stroke , diabete and dementia , as well as reduce life expectancy in Derbyshire by an estimated eight year . smoking put huge pressure on the NHS , with someone be admit to hospital with a smoking - relate condition almost every minute in England , result in 400 , 000 admission every year . tobacco use in England cost billion of pound in lose productivity and in health and social care cost . ash estimate that the total cost of smoking , include productivity loss , social care cost and health cost , be £ 91 . 8 million in my Erewash constituency . the Tobacco and Vapes Bill represent a bold and necessary response to this public health crisis , and it be a direct result of the review that Javed Khan carry out while I be public health Minister . the measure he propose will , without doubt , save ten of thousand of life and save the health system billion of pound , and they will save an entire generation , include in Erewash , from addiction . regardless of party politic , as my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness say , we all enter this place with the honourable intention of make life well for the people we represent . I recently meet student from Dovedale Primary School in my constituency , and we discuss the idea of increase the age of tobacco sale by one year every year . the student unanimously back this measure . by support this legislation and ensure that child turn 15 or young this year , include all those Dovedale Primary School student , will never be legally sell cigarette , we have a golden opportunity to deliver on that promise of make life well for our constituent . if we do not , how could we ever again go into school in our constituency and look those child and young people in the eye ? another objection raise by critic of the Bill and by tobacco manufacturer be that the cost of smoking to the public finance be far less than tobacco tax revenue . this be just not the case . lose productivity , healthcare cost and social care expenditure paint a stark picture of the true cost of smoking to the public finance . ash estimate that , in 2019 , lose productivity in England due to smoking cost £ 14 billion , in addition to a £ 3 billion cost to the NHS and social care . tobacco excise tax revenue for the whole UK be under £ 9 billion in 2019 , so the financial burden impose by smoke far outweigh any tax revenue raise by tobacco sale . as I have already mention , the Khan review outline that vaping be an effective tool to help people quit smoking . although I agree with that analysis , many young people be be give these nicotine product and be become addict . this be all down to a clever ploy by tobacco manufacturer . today , the vaping industry be apply similar tactic to those use by big tobacco in 1962 . vape be increasingly be market as fashion accessory , and the Bill will tackle this directly be regulate the packaging of vaping and nicotine product , which will also reduce the appeal and attractiveness of vaping and nicotine product to child and young people . can the Minister confirm that the Government have consider a total ban on the sale of tobacco and vaping product within a define radius of school , as I be sure that would have a huge impact ? finally , on the illicit vaping market , our effort to combat smoking and vaping must extend the legal market to tackle that side of thing . we have all hear story of criminal gang exploit the market and selling vape contain synthetic Spice . only last week , King ' s College London publish a report by Dr Caroline Copeland that outline the fact that so - call zombie drug have be find in fake vape . once again , may I ask the Minister what she be do to tackle that dangerous aspect of the vaping market ? to conclude , this be our 1962 moment . as parliament - arians , we have an opportunity to end smoking once and for all , ensure that future generation be protect . some may argue that now be not the time to legislate on this matter . I say , if not now , when ? the Tobacco and Vapes Bill be the single big public health intervention in a generation , and 66 % of adult across Great Britain support the legislation . now be the time for colleague across the House to back the Bill for the sake of public health , the economy and our NHS . I have spend four year in this position , and as with most thing in life , the more time we spend do a job , the well we get at it . I feel that be true in this place , and I hope that the whip on the Front Bench agree . my understanding of what it mean to be a legislator have be on a steep learning curve . how I look at policy have change during my time here . I have conclude that , as an MP who be guide by his christian faith , I should apply to all policy three simple test : be the policy conservative , be it need and be it enforceable ? I apply those test to the Bill . on the first test , sadly I do not think the policy be conservative . I understand ban drug . I understand ban drinking and drive . I understand ban smoking in pub . but to ban the use of a legal product for someone bear in 2009 , but not for someone bear in 2008 , seem a little too far overreach . the policy also create the nanny state that I and many other speak about , which have so many implication . where do it end ? obesity be kill as many people as smoking , so be we to ban McDonalds , KFC , Dunkin ' donut and chocolate ? alcohol be another killer . do we ban that too ? what about drive accident ? do we ban motorbike and fast car ? what about fire ? do we ban candle ? what about Scotland ' s law on suppose hate speech ? someone ' s word offend , so we ban free speech . on the first test — be it conservative ? — sadly , I think not . the next test be whether it be need . I believe that the Prime Minister ' s intention be honourable . smoking kill many people many year before their time . often they suffer a slow and painful death . I be campaign hard for a new hospital in Doncaster , so I visit Doncaster Royal Infirmary fairly often . one of the sad sight be patient stand outside the hospital , often in their dressing gown , in all weather , smoke . it be a bizarre sight . they be there to get well , yet they be sadly kill themselves at the same time . I be sure this be replicate across the country . smoking be not a nice habit . it cost a fortune , and it result in bad breath , clothe that stink , yellow tooth and yellow finger . at one time , many people think that it be fashionable to smoke , but we be all clear now that it be not . be this Bill need ? let we just say I can understand why many think it be . thirdly , be it enforceable ? that be another difficulty with the Bill . as I have say before , we be quick to make legislation but often we be simply not enforce the legislation we already have in place . many of our street have issue with the use of ban substance and illegal activity . the use of cannabis be often ignore , even though we can smell it on many street . prostitution be illegal but that be often ignore . Quad bike on our street may not be ignore , but they be often difficult to deal with . be we go to spend time prosecute shop assistant for sell cigarette to a 35 - year - old when their 36 - year - old friend can still buy they ? I think not . I understand the hope that by then the 35 - year - old will not want to smoke , but ban something often create an unregulated black market , often turn law - abide citizen into criminal , which be never a good thing to do . as far as my three test go , this legislation only really pass one of they , and I therefore struggle to support it . to go back to my first point , be the Bill Conservative ? more importantly , be it more evidence of the creation of the nanny state ? I believe so . if we take more and more decision away from adult , then more adult will continually rely more and more on the state to make decision for they . that be not a good thing and sadly will only create more powerful government and weak individual . this thought remind I of a video I watch recently , and I want to read what the gentleman in it say — his word , not mine : " my grandfather walk 10 mile to work every day . my father walk five . I ' m drive a Cadillac . my son be in a Mercedes . my grandson will be in a Ferrari . but my great grandson will be walk again . why be that ? tough time create strong people . strong people create easy time . easy time create weak people . weak people create tough time . " many will not understand , but we have to raise warrior . nanny state do not raise warrior ; they create weak individual . as the man say , weak individual create tough time . I want a society to help raise warrior as I believe , go forward , we be go to need as many as we can find , smoker or not . finally , be it christian to support or not support the Bill ? I be sure there be argument on both side . but we start each day in this place by say the Lord ' s prayer . we ask our Lord , " lead I not into temptation . " we do not ask he to take temptation away . no , I think our Lord want we to be warrior too , to be able to withstand the many temptation this world offer . I also think he want we to make decision , not sit on the fence . I therefore can not abstain , which I believe would be the easy option . I will therefore be vote against the Bill , not because I want young people to smoke — I do not — but because I want they to be warrior who can say no to the many temptation they may face . I want to educate they to rely on themselves to make the right decision , and not to rely on the state to make decision for they . rise — order . there be more people here than I be expect , so I hope we can limit our remark to about five minute each , please . I rise to support the Bill and to make two declaration . first , I chair the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health . the group ' s objective be to encourage people who smoke to give up and young people not to take up smoking at all in the first place , which the Bill aim to achieve . my second declaration be personal . I do not want anybody else to go through what I go through , which be see my two parent die of cancer — a smoking - relate disease . I well remember my late mother , at the age of 47 , gasp for her last breath . she have be smoke since she be 12 . at the time , smoking be almost encourage by doctor and the medical fraternity , as the implication be that it be a good thing to do . I want to see a smoke - free generation . we have the opportunity to achieve that now . New Zealand be go to be at the forefront of this effort , but have decide not to go ahead , which mean that we can now be in the vanguard of create the first smoke - free generation in the world . however , the stake could not be high . research from University College London say that 350 young people between the age of 18 and 25 take up smoking every day . that mean that 50 , 000 young people have take up smoking since the Government first announce their proposal . they will face a lifetime of addiction and early death as a result . relatively few people in my constituency smoke — the number be way below average rate . none the less , smoking - relate disease account for 1 , 300 hospital admission in the year before the pandemic . People suffer the same inequality as a result . some say that if we implement these measure we will not have the taxation come into the Treasury , but in 2023 , smoke cost the economy £ 21 billion . that be more than double the revenue that the Government get from tobacco levy . some say that people who die early be do we a favour by not be an imposition on the national health service . that be absolutely outrageous . we want people to live long and healthy life . let I make this clear for all those who believe in freedom of choice . I be a dye - in - the - wool Conservative and I believe in free choice , but the only free choice that a person make if they take up smoking be to take that first cigarette , because after that they be addict for life ; the craving be there . although most adult smoker want to give up , the reality be that it take 30 attempt to succeed . only one in 10 smoker achieve that each year . therefore , if a person smoke , they will die a horrible death , probably as a result of a smoking - relate disease . this Bill have the opportunity of create a smoke - free generation and of make sure that young people do not get addict in the first place . if they wish to take up smoking when they be an adult that be their choice — their free choice — but , importantly , this Bill do not criminalise those people who smoke at the moment for either purchase or use tobacco . the legal obligation will be on the retailer not to sell tobacco to those who be underage . like many people , I be concern about the number of young people take up vaping . the reality be that we do not yet have the evidence of what that will do to their lung in the future . we know that it will get they addict to nicotine , which be the most addictive drug know to man or woman . once they be addict to some form of nicotine , the temptation be to go far . we do not know what damage be be do to people ' s lung by the delivery mechanism of vaping , but medical evidence on that will emerge . it be important that we take action now rather than wait to see what happen . there be clear public support for these measure . sixty nine per cent . of the public , include more than half of all smoker , back the Prime Minister ' s age of sale proposal . there be support for the Bill across the political party . the majority of people who vote for each of our party across the Chamber support this proposal , and that should not come as a great surprise , because no one want to see their child or grandchild become addicted . sadly , big tobacco be fight back . tobacco company have even attempt to classify themselves as ally of public health . Philip Morris International threaten to take legal action against the Government to delay the legislation . I be not sure what it think it be say with its new corporate slogan , " deliver a smoke - free future " when its whole aim be to get people addict in the first place . the other reality be that big tobacco have be try to get many of its product , such as heat - not - burn and cigar , exempt from the Bill — exemption that would undermine the Bill before it even take effect . those product still contain tobacco and harmful product , and still cause damage to people ' s health . we can not allow those exemption to happen . another thing that we should change be the current exemption for cigarillo from standardised packaging law — maybe we could consider that as the legislating take place . the other reality that I want to mention be the discrepancy between Scotland , Northern Ireland , Wales and England . Scotland have a clear requirement for retailer to identify people by their age . I welcome that , as it be the right thing to do . as it stand , the Bill do not appear to require that in Wales or in England . I hope that we can amend the Bill as it go through Committee to allow the provision that exist in Scotland — we should support what they have do there — to apply in England , Wales and Northern Ireland . I know that you require I to sit down , Madam Deputy Speaker , but this be a subject that I have be passionate about for rather a long time . the reality be that the smoking ban back in 2007 be lead from the Back Benches . indeed , many Labour Ministers vote against the tobacco ban — include the Deputy Prime Minister . include the Deputy Prime Minister . from that ban through to the 2015 progress on tobacco control , such measure have consistently come from the Back Benches . in fact , colleague from across the House have help to implement many of they . I be delighted that the all - party parliamentary group ' s recommendation have be include in the Khan review . I thank the Prime Minister for go even far than what we ask for , which be a rise in the age of sale to create a smoke - free generation by raise the age of sale by one year every year . the reality be that tobacco control measure have consistently pass through this Chamber and the other with overwhelming support from across party every single time they have be propose . I be confident that this Bill will be no different . rise — Order . I must impose a time limit of five minute . the Bill set two important principle crash against each other : on the one hand , the principle of personal freedom , and on the other , the responsibility of a Government to act on public health . we be really lucky to live in a country that treasure personal freedom , and we should be careful of ban that take freedom away . however , smoking be the big preventable killer and cost the NHS and the economy billion every year . Most people who smoke wish that they have never start in the first place — that they have never have that choice — and I agree with they . I have lose weight , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I take a decision six month ago to give up alcohol , but that be far easy than give up nicotine . People value the choice to make silly decision . when they be tell that they should not eat an easter egg all in one go , there be a public backlash . give that this be about personal choice , I think it right that this be a free vote . however , when I think about the free vote , I realise that this do not really affect I ; it affect young people , who have a right to be hear . that be why I write to secondary school in my constituency to ask young people for their view . I be really grateful for the detailed feedback from three of those school . I will not mention which school , because they give I their confidence and I do not want they to get in trouble with their peer . one group report back that the general consensus be that a ban be a good thing , and another say that they have mixed view . a third group send I detailed comment from every single year 12 and 13 student of politic . in that group , the number of student support the Bill ' s measure be more than double those who do not . the majority be even great for the part of the Bill about vape than for the part about tobacco . the child comment that the brightly coloured flavour vape be target at young people . they also worry about the environmental impact , especially of disposable vape , and would like to have strong limitation on disposable product than on reusable one . they recognise that vaping can help adult to quit smoking and raise the concern that strong restriction on vape may cause some adult to return to smoking , but they be also concerned about the lack of knowledge of the long - term impact of vaping , especially for young people . other student point out that fix a set date of birth for those who be able to buy tobacco seem somewhat arbitrary , feel unfair and could be difficult to enforce , especially as those people get old . some raise concern that young people will still obtain product — both vape and cigarette — from old people or from illegal source . all the group comment on the need for enforcement measure , wisely point out that just pass a law in this House do not necessarily change behaviour . I be pleased that the Health Secretary say that local authority will be able to keep the proceed of fine in order to enforce this law . some student be also concerned about the challenge that enforcement will pose to retail worker — the Government ' s new proposal to introduce a specific offence of assault a retail worker may go some way to address those concern . the final point , which I think be really important to mention , be that some young people be concern that if these product be ban , other item that be potentially even more dangerous will take over . all those point have be mention individually by many colleague in today ' s debate , and every single one of they be consider by the young people in my constituency . I be deeply impressed by the thought they give to the matter : they value freedom and choice , but when ask for their view , the majority of the young people of Chelmsford who respond say that they would support the measure in the Bill . it be not a unanimous opinion , and I respect those who do not agree , but in a democracy , the majority view be those that prevail . therefore , out of respect for the majority view of the young people in my constituency — who will be affect by this Bill much more than any of we — I be go to vote for the Bill today , because it be their view on the Bill that will matter . what a fascinating afternoon of different speech . as my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) have just indicate , there be two very different way of approach the Bill . it be very much a personal matter : tonight ' s vote be not whip , and therefore all of we will have our different perception , but I start by say that we be not all here — as one Member say — to try to prevent restriction on human activity . I do not see that as the reason I be send to this House , but surely we be all send here to try to achieve a well future for the child and grandchild of our constituent . once we have all agree on that , we can discuss whether a ban on child smoke now that will , in time , mean a ban on everyone smoking be a wonderful way of prevent what be not a liberty but an addiction , or whether take away that freedom be just a slippery slope towards take away all other freedom . of course , although we can not measure precisely the future damage of allow people to carry on as they have be — be able to do themselves considerable damage — we know that the NHS calculate that the current financial cost of smoking be £ 17 billion a year . for those of we who be also concerned about the size of the state , the use of resource , the productivity of the NHS , and the ability of our constituent to have elective surgery when they want it and to see doctor when they wish to , this be surely a huge opportunity to make a massive difference — not just to future generation ' potential to avoid addiction to tobacco , but to their ability to get the health service that they want at a cost that this country can afford . that be the crux of what we have be discuss today . it be very interesting to I that all the doctor in the House and all the health professional in our constituency — as my neighbour and hon . friend , the wonderful member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) , have highlight in Gloucestershire — be absolutely united that this be one of the single most important and useful intervention that this House could make . it be a huge credit to this Prime Minister that he have set out a vision with clarity and pursue it with determination , and be absolutely clear that be this House to vote this Bill through , it would be part of whatever legacy he leave in the future , as a politician keen to make a difference . I believe the idea that , on the contrary , encourage bad health outcome should continue because it somehow benefit people ' s freedom would be a valid one only if the whole business of smoking be harmless and largely cost - free , and we know that that simply be not the case . we have hear the datum and the call : 75 , 000 gp appointment a month , 690 premature death in the Gloucester Royal Hospital alone , and every minute of every day a new patient somewhere in a hospital in the UK because of smoking . we can not argue that the freedom to smoke and to be addicted come cost - free , and I can not imagine oppose a Bill that support well health and well life outcome . for the libertarian , it will in fact help to reduce the size and cost of the state . therefore all these thing be fundamentally conservative goal . in fact , they be not even just conservative goal , but surely human goal that all of we in this House can share . in all this , we do not need to think too much about a nanny state — none of we be keen on the phrase " nanny state " or the concept — but how many people here would stand up and vote to take away safety belt in car , or suggest that everyone could drive motorbike without a helmet ? I believe that what may seem like a slight increase in bureaucracy will , in a few year ' time , be see as so obvious that we will all be astonish there be any opposition at all . I believe strongly that protect child , just as we ban child from be chimney sweep in generation go by , by ban they from smoke for future generation be exactly what a progressive Conservative Government should do . this Bill , if pass , will be one of the most far - reach law that this Government and this Parliament have make . I be absolutely convinced — order . I support the Bill ' s aim to create the first smoke - free generation . it be bold and visionary , and I support it . I want to use my time to make four short point . it will not surprise you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the first one concern the new city of Southend . my vision be to make the city of Southend safe , healthy and wealthy for all , but the incidence of smoking in Southend be a real barrier to that vision . in 2022 , the rate of smoking in Southend be estimate to be over 14 % , which be 1 . 5 % high than the national average . what be even more concerning be that the 2022 figure be 3 % high than the 2021 figure . although it be laudable that smoking rate have be consistently decline in the UK for the past 40 year , the reality be that in some of our coastal city — and , sadly , Southend be one of they — the rate be still too high and be even rise . I be delighted that the Prime Minister have seek to tackle this issue , and anything that make the next generation of Southenders healthy certainly have my backing . I be delighted that the Bill tackle vaping . as we have hear , recent research show that nearly a quarter of child use vape , with more than 10 % in secondary school describe themselves as regular user . vaping be much more concerning because we simply do not yet know the long - term effect , but what we do know be alarming . we know that vaping - relate hospital admission almost double in 2022 , with 32 of those case involve child . bear in mind that cigarette be once consider to be perfectly safe , as we have hear , I believe it be simply not responsible to fail to act to stop young people become hook on these product . however , like other I have a number of concern about how the Bill will work in practice . there be only 5 , 000 trading standard officer around the country . how can such a small number ensure that the ban on the sale of these product be enforce ? just as importantly , as this Bill be currently draft , if someone be to go abroad on a trip and come back with a pack of 200 Marlboro Gold — apparently only £ 37 at the current duty - free rate — there be nothing to stop they smoke they or give they to other because they have not buy they , so that have to be tackle as well . like my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , I have engage with my local student . my last cohort of work experience student , all with an interest in politic , be very interested in this policy . student from Westcliff High School for Girls , Southend High School for Girls , Southend High School for Boys and the King Edmund School all support the aim of the Bill , but they too raise a number of intelligent concern . they want to know how shop that already sell illegal and unregulated nicotine product will be deal with when they add illegal vape . they want to know how people well into adulthood will be identify for nicotine product — how will shop tackle that ? they strongly support the banning of disposable vape , particularly for environmental reason , but they be much more concerned about crack down on the under - age vaping that be already happen than ban future vape purchase . finally , they raise considerable concern about the potential for a black market in nicotine product . they point out the prevalence of unregulated product cut with even bad substance in the illicit drug market , and they fear we might be open the door for this to happen with nicotine product as well . I support the principle of the ban . this be about protect the long - term health of young people in our country and I will be vote for it , but we must address the real concern express by the very young people the Bill have be introduce to protect . I be not naturally inclined to want to ban thing — I lean towards the Government intervene as little as possible and only when absolutely necessary — so I have think long and hard about this Bill and whether to support it , and I have come to the conclusion that I will vote for it tonight . the first reason for that be that although I have hear the argument put forward by some today about freedom , the simple fact be that people who be addict to nicotine and smoking be not free . I have see many people suffer with the addiction through their life and try to give up smoking , and any notion that somehow people who be addict to smoking be free be nonsense . if we can ever help people to avoid become addicted to smoking and nicotine , the Government should take action . the Bill try to address that issue in a sensible and pragmatic manner and in the right way . I have also hear it say today that somehow smoke be a matter of personal choice and freedom and it do not really affect anyone else . I would challenge people who say that to go and talk to any family — we have hear story about this in the Chamber today — who have lose love one through long and painful death as a result of their smoking . there be victim of smoking beyond the person directly involve , in their family . smoking also put huge pressure on our health system and damage our economy . these be price we all have to pay for the addiction to smoke that so many struggle with . when I read the statistic that 75 , 000 gp appointment a week be directly as a result of smoking , I be astounded . I be sure that all of our inboxe be full of message from constituent say they be struggle to see their gp , so we can see that a great difference would be make if we free up that capacity in primary care . for those reason I think it be right on this occasion for the Government to intervene . on the point about shop worker have to check the age of someone in their 30 or 40 to establish whether they be eligible to buy tobacco , the reality be that it will not happen because the whole point of the measure be to stop people smoke in the first place . we know most people start smoke when they be young , and by help they to avoid ever start when they be young we just will not have people in their 30 and 40s want to buy cigarette . that be the point . I also welcome the measure in the Bill on vaping . I have be incredibly concerned about the way vaping have take hold of particularly young people in our country . I understand and acknowledge that it be a useful tool to help people to get off cigarette by take up vaping instead , but the reality be that it be now about so much more than that in our country . it be shameful how some of the vape manufacturer have deliberately try to get young people addict to vaping , so that they be lock into be their customer for the rest of their life , just as the tobacco industry have do for too long . I therefore welcome the measure the Government be take to try to make vaping less attractive to young people . I suggest that we need to go far . if we say that the main aim of vaping be to help people to get off smoking , why do we not also ban vape for anyone bear after 1 January 2009 ? if they will not ever smoke , they will not need vaping to get off smoking . that be one way we could go far to improve this Bill and prevent young people from ever take up vaping in the first place . that would be incredibly welcome . we do not know the long - term damage that vaping be do to people . we be start to see some of the evidence come forward on the number of young people who end up in hospital as a result of vaping . I be deeply concerned that , just as with tobacco if it be be license today — with all that we know about the damage it do to people ' s live — we probably would not license it or approve it for sale . I be concerned that we do not yet understand the long - term impact of vaping , and it will reap a damaging effect on young people ' s health . the Bill be not perfect , but I acknowledge and respect the Prime Minister ' s aim in come forward with something that be bold and will address this important issue in our society . I be happy to support the Bill this evening . I rise in an unusual position , because I smoke like a chimney , but I will give the Government the benefit of the doubt tonight , even though I have concern about the enforceability of some of the Bill ' s measure . those who be regular reader of the Leigh Journal — I realise that my audience might not include too many of those — will know that I have write repeatedly about the problem of illicit and illegal tobacco and vape in Leigh . the simple truth be that there be real concern that a lot of these product be a means to money launder for the gang who cause the heroin problem in Leigh and for the people smuggler . I have speak in the Leigh Journal about how Leigh be one of the end point of an international smuggling gang base in the Balkans that use illicit tobacco and vape as part of their criminal enterprise . some people have speak today about how they do not think the Bill be right and will not support the Government . I will support the Government , but I will complain about the Bill too , because the Government must go far . if someone be sell illegal tobacco and vape , they should be hold accountable . if someone be sell beer or spirit make out of turpentine or toilet water , for example , people would be outraged and there would be a demand for action , but that be happen day in , day out and week in , week out with illegal and counterfeit tobacco and vape . some product be make illegitimately to copy " legitimate " product in sweatshop in the far east , and some vape contain up to 10 time the legal limit of nicotine . as some colleague with medical knowledge have speak about today , we simply do not know what damage that will do to young people . the way we should go far be through a mechanism that we already have to license shop , which be the alcohol licensing scheme . we should expand that scheme , which be run by local authority , to tobacco . it should be an alcohol and tobacco licence , so that someone can not apply for one or the other , but have to apply for both . if someone be catch sell a dodgy £ 2 vape to a 14 - year - old , they should have their licence take away so that they can no long sell alcohol either . I guarantee that that would basically clean up the system , because nobody will take the risk of sell a dodgy £ 2 vape to a 14 - year - old and risk the loss of their ability to sell alcohol to a much wide pool of people . those who do will , I suspect , be the organisation that be front for the drug dealer and people smuggler . we should also trigger an automatic investigation by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs into those people and follow back the chain of the dodgy vape and dodgy tobacco to find out who they be . not only should we take away their licence so that they can not sell alcohol and tobacco ; we should fine they , and not £ 50 as say early , but £ 10 , 000 . let we really go for this and teach those people a lesson , because the black market in tobacco and vape already exist , and it be cost the Treasury million . it be fund other criminal activity such as heroin dealing and people smuggle , so it must come to an end . my only criticism of the Government with regard to the Bill be that it do not go far enough . we need more robust regulation , because a giant black market in tobacco and vape be already there . it need to be do through the exist licensing system for alcohol , and it need to have concrete outcome that will shut down the dodgy shop and cut off a source of funding for the dangerous criminal gang who also operate in heroin dealing and people smuggle . the Government have the right intention . I have doubt about some of the detail , but I will give they the benefit of the doubt . however , I urge they to strengthen the legislation ; it would be to the benefit of we all if they do so . let we deal with these criminal gang while we deal with this public health issue , because I be afraid the two be deeply intertwine . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to respond to the debate on behalf of the Opposition . we have hear powerful contribution from member on both side of the House in favour of the Bill to bring an end to the smoking epidemic and crack down on vape company that be prey on kid . I thank the right hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) and for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) and the hon . member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , for Erewash ( Maggie Throup ) , for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) and for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) for their move contribution on the harm of smoking and the importance of the Bill . let I also thank my hon . friend the Members for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) , for York Central , ( Rachael Maskell ) and for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for the excellent point they make about the growth in vaping . we have also hear opposition to the Bill . the right hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Sir Jake Berry ) cite the example of people openly take class a drug in public without reprimand as evidence that ban do not work . I dare say that he make more of a point about the decline in police and local enforcement under his government than about age - of - sale legislation . to the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , I simply say that if want to stop future generation from get addict to product that may eventually kill they make we the health police , then the health police we be . there be no argument about the harm that tobacco do to the people of this country every day . smoking be the single big preventable cause of ill health . it lead to 80 , 000 death a year in the United Kingdom , and it be responsible for one in four cancer death and more than 70 % of lung cancer case . smoker lose an average of 10 year of life expectancy . as we have hear , smoking be not a free choice ; it be an addiction . raise the age of sale will help to reduce pressure on the NHS by improve health and wellbeing . my constituent Eric know that too well . he be one of thousand of constituent whose life have be put at risk by smoking . like the vast majority of smoker , he begin smoke when he be a child , at age 14 . it be not until his 50 that he be able to give up cold turkey , at the request of his daughter , who urge he to do so on behalf of his newborn grandson . Eric have suffer a heart attack and stroke , and he live with hypertension , high cholesterol and copd . as he say : " COPD be an incurable , mortal disease and make get around hard and hard for I . " the experience of people like Eric be why the last Labour Government take radical action with the smoking ban in 2007 : a define public health achievement . it be also why , while in opposition , we welcome the Khan review and propose the generational smoking ban a full 10 month before the Prime Minister make his announcement at his party conference . there be wide support for the Bill from everyone in the NHS , in the wide health sector and among the general public . the only people who seem to be fight it tooth and nail be the tobacco company and conservative Back Benchers . the former Member for Blackpool South call it " health fascism " , and the former Prime Minister , whose chief of staff work for Philip Morris and british American Tobacco , have call it " unconservative . " what be it about the tobacco industry that some Tory mps love so much ? every year the NHS bail out big tobacco to the tune of billion . the Prime Minister might not feel he have the strength to take on those vest interest and whip his mps to vote against they , but he can rest assure that if they can not get it over the line , Labour will . as welcome as this Bill be , the Government have have 14 year to take strong action on smoking . four year ago , the Government say that their ambition be a smoke - free Britain by 2030 , but they be currently estimate to be at least seven year behind their Smokefree 2030 target and not on course to meet it in the poor area until 2044 . the generational smoking ban will help we get there , but it will not help the 6 million to 7 million adult who already smoke . as many member have say , stop smoking service have face savage cut . the number of smoker who quit through stop smoke service have drop from 400 , 000 a year in 2010 to around 100 , 000 today . do the Minister regret not do more to bring down smoking rate over the past 14 year ? the Government have belatedly commit more funding to stop smoking service , but the uplift in fund that the Minister offer will not take we back to the number of people set quit date that we achieve in 2010 . what assurance can she offer that her measure will get the Government on course to hit the 5 % smoke - free target by 2030 ? the Bill be strong on tackle the take - up of cigarette and vape by young people , but it do little to help those already addict to quit . recently , a school in my constituency have to apologise after hand out a leaflet to a child that suggest smoking as a self - help measure . do the Minister agree that it be scandalous that the myth that smoking reduce stress and anxiety still persist ? do she agree that her Bill should include a requirement to make tobacco company include information to dispel that myth in their product ? the Bill also include a range of power to tackle youth vaping , which labour welcome . for year , Labour have be warn about the explosion of young people get addict to nicotine with product that look like teddy bear and sippy cup , and come in flavour like unicorn shake . that be why Labour vote to ban the marketing and branding of vape to child in 2021 . once again , Labour lead and this Government belatedly follow . in the meantime , an estimate 255 , 000 more child age 11 to 17 have become addicted to vape , accord to ASH survey datum . do the Minister regret take so long to wake up to this issue ? accord to the Chartered Trading Standards Institute , while youth vaping have soar , so have the number of illegal product flood our market , as many member have raise . up to one in three vape sell in shop be estimate to be illicit , which mean that child be be expose to vape that contain heavy metal , antifreeze and poster varnish , as well illegal level of nicotine get they hook for life . will the Minister explain how she expect to bring in effective new regulation on vape when her Government be barely in control of the black market now ? do she agree that a cross - government strategy be need to tackle the smuggling of potentially dangerous product into our country ? have she consider give the MHRA new power to screen product before they come on the market ? will she confirm that her Bill will provide power to tackle not just the sale but the import of dangerous product ? to conclude , after 14 year of the Tories , healthy life expectancy have drop for the first time in modern british history . labour support this Bill but , after 14 year of failure and with the NHS in crisis , we regret that it mark a last desperate attempt of this government to rescue a legacy on public health . for 14 year they have play politic with public health , put off prevention measure , know that taxpayer tomorrow will pay the price . but the country be pay for this now . labour will always put public health first , prioritise prevention to ease pressure on the NHS , improve access to smoking cessation service and take on the tobacco and vape company that be profit off people ' s health . I want to start by thank the many lung cancer and asthma charity , particularly ASH , for their advice , research and support . I personally pay tribute to the chief medical officer for England for his commitment to make the strong possible case for this life - change legislation , and to Health Ministers across the UK for their collaboration in what will be a UK - wide solution for future generation . I be very disappointed with the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , who open for the Opposition . I have say it before and I will say it again : I like the hon . gentleman . he once say on air that that be death to his career ! why would he have say that , Madam Deputy Speaker ? but I be really disappointed today , because he be not listen . my hon . friend have some very sensible question about consultation , and they raise very serious point about flavour for vape and how they might help adult to quit . he be not listen ; he be make party political point . in fact , he barely say anything sensible about the legislation . all he do be talk politic . I appreciate the fact that Labour member have be whip to support the Bill . on my side , colleague be trust to make their own decision on something that have always be a matter for a free vote . [ interruption . ] he sit there shout from a sedentary position , political point - scoring yet again . the hon . member for Birmingham , Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) raise a very serious question about stop smoke service . I can tell she that the Government have allocate £ 138 million a year to stop smoking , which be more than double . the Government ' s commitment to help adult to stop smoking be absolutely unparalleled . I thank the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) for her support for the Bill , and for the collaborative approach of the Government in Scotland in their work bring forward this collaboration among all part of the United Kingdom . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , the Chair of the Health Committee for his excellent speech and his strong case for long - term policy that will prevent ill health and thereby reduce the pressure on the NHS , which be so important . he ask when we will see the regulation and the consultation on vape flavour , packaging and location in store . it be our intention to bring forward that consultation during this Parliament if at all practicable . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) for his tribute to Dr Javed Khan for his excellent report into the terrible trap of addiction to nicotine . my right hon . Friend make the point that it be simply not a free choice , but the total opposite . I thank the Liberal Democrats and their spokesman , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , for say that they will support the Bill on Second Reading . I be not quite sure where they be go on the smoking legislation , but I be grateful for their support on vaping . I hope to be able to reassure they during the passage of the Bill . the case for the Bill be totally clear : cigarette be the product that , when use as the manufacturer intend , will go on to kill two third of its long - term user . that make it different from eat at McDonald ' s or even drink — what be it ? — a pint of wine , which one of my colleague be suggest . it be very , very different . smoking cause 70 % of lung cancer case . it cause asthma in young people . it cause stillbirth , it cause dementia , disability and early death . I will give way on that cheery note . I thank the Minister for give way . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a practise NHS consultant addiction psychiatrist . do my right hon . friend share my concern that what we have hear from the libertarian right today be a false equivalence between alcohol and bad dietary choice , and smoking , and that moderate alcohol and moderate bad eating be very different from moderate smoking , because moderate smoking kill . it mean that people live on average 10 year less and it mean less healthy life . do she agree that this be not about libertarianism but about do the right thing , protect public health and protect the next generation , and that be why we should all support the Bill ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who make such a powerful point and speak with such authority . similar point be make by my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who as a paediatrician speak with great expertise on this matter . it be absolutely true : it be a false choice . it be not a freedom of choice ; it be a choice to become addicted and that then remove your choice . every year , more than 100 , 000 child age between 11 and 15 light their first cigarette . what they can look forward to be a life of addiction to nicotine , spend thousand of pound a year , make perhaps 30 attempt to quit , with all the misery that involve , and then experience life - limit , entirely preventable suffering . two third of they will die before their time . some 83 % of people start smoke before the age of 20 , which be why we need to have the gut to create the first smoke - free generation across the United Kingdom , make sure that child turn 15 or young this year will never be legally sell tobacco . that be the single big intervention that we can make to improve our nation ' s health . smoking be responsible for about 80 , 000 death every year , but it would still be worth take action if the real figure be half that , or even a tenth of it . there be also a strong economic case for the Bill . every year , smoking cost our country at least £ 17 billion , far more than the £ 10 billion of tax revenue that it draw in . it cost our NHS and social care system £ 3 billion every year , with someone admit to hospital with a smoking - relate illness almost every minute of every day , and 75 , 000 gp appointment every week for smoking - relate problem . [ Official Report , 30 April 2024 ; Vol . 749 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) that be a massive and totally preventable waste of resource . for those of we on this side of the House who be try hard to increase access to the NHS and enable more patient to see their gps , this be a really good target on which to focus . on the positive side , create a smoke - free generation could deliver productivity gain of nearly £ 2 billion within a decade , potentially reach £ 16 billion by 2056 , improve work prospect , boost efficiency and drive the economic growth that we need in order to pay for the first - class public service that we all want . I know that hon . member who oppose the Bill be do so with the good of intention . they argue that adult should be free to make their own decision , and I get that . what we be urge they to do be make their own free decision to choose to be addict to nicotine , but that be not in fact a choice , and I urge they to look at the fact . child start smoke because of peer pressure , and because of persistent marketing tell they that it be cool . I know from experience how hard it be , once hook , to kick the habit . I take up smoking at the age of 14 . my little sister be 12 at the time , and we use to buy 10 no . 6 and a little book of match and — yes — smoke behind the bicycle shed , and at the bus stop on the way home from school . [ interruption . ] yes , I know : I be out myself here . have take up smoking at the age of 14 , I be smoke 40 a day by the age of 20 , and as a 21st birthday present to myself I give up . but today , 40 year later — I be now 60 , so do the math — with all this talk of smoking , I still feel like a fag sometimes . that be how addictive smoking be . this be not about freedom to choose ; it be about freedom from addiction . there be another angle . those in the tobacco industry be , of course , issue dire warning of unintended consequence from the raising of the age of sale . they say that it will cause an explosion in the black market . that be exactly what they say when the age of sale rise from 16 to 18 , but the opposite happen : the number of illicit cigarette consume fall by a quarter , and at the same time smoking rate among 16 and 17 - year - old in England fall by almost a third . raise the age of sale be a tried and test policy , and a policy that be support not only by a majority of retailer — which , understandably , have be mention by a number of member — but by more than 70 % of the british public . if I have know that my right hon . friend be such a keen smoker , I would not have recruit she to the conservative party at the tender age of 18 when we be at university . I have always take a free - choice approach to health matter , and as shadow Children ' s Minister I have to lead on both the tobacco advertising ban and the public smoking ban . we be wrong to oppose they . who would now think it remotely normal for people to be able to smoke around we in restaurant and other public place ? do my right hon . friend not agree that in a few year ' time this measure will seem just the same as ban smoking in public place , and people will ask why we do not do it early ? as I have say ever since I meet my hon . friend at the age of 18 , he be always right . I can never disagree with he . I want to say a few even more furious word about vaping . it be just appal to see vape be deliberately market to child at pocket - money price and in bright colour , with fun packaging and flavour like bubble gum and berry blast , and with the vape counter right next to the sweet counter . before my right hon . friend get too furious about vaping , may I ask she to clarify two point on smoking ? first , she say that because of the addictive nature of nicotine , it be extremely important that we stop people smoke from the age of 15 . I do not support that , but if it be so important , why be we not start at 17 ? it be already illegal for 17 - year - old to smoke . what be the magic of 15 ? if we really believe in the policy , why delay ? secondly , she speak about her own experience , and I be a former smoker myself . she start smoke at 14 , and I start smoke at about 14 as well . it be illegal when I start smoke at 14 , but it do not stop I . I be a lawbreaker — how shocking . why do she think that this ban on people start smoke when under age will be different ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise those really important point . as I will come on to , we will be put £ 30 million of new money each year into trading standard and our enforcement agency to clamp down on enforcement , and we be make it illegal to sell cigarette to anybody turn 15 this year . he ask why . it be precisely because we be try to bring in the Bill with a decent amount of notice so that people can prepare for it , precisely to protect retailer and allow all the sector that will be impact to be able to prepare . I come back to the area where I be seriously on the warpath : target kid who might become addicted to nicotine vape . I go to Hackney to visit some retail shop , where I see the vape counter right next to the sweet counter . I see that it be absolutely not about I — it be not about try to stop I smoking . it be about try to get child addict through cynical , despicable method . sadly , for too many kid , vape be already an incredible marketing success . one in five child age between 11 and 17 have now use a vape , and the number have treble in the last three year . I be grateful to the Minister for give way as she plough through all of this . I wonder whether she can share her view on the advertising of vape product on sport kit and via sport facility . the hon . Lady be aware that there be already very restrictive advertising for smoking and vaping . we be very concerned that some advertising be breach advertising standard regulation , and I will write to retailer specifically about that . parent and teacher be incredibly worried about the effect that vape be have on develop lung and brain . the truth be that we do not yet know what the long - term impact will be on child who vape . since I be appoint , I have do everything I can to ensure that this Bill will protect our child . the Government ' s position be clear : vaping be less harmful than smoking , but if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape — and child should never vape . we will definitely make sure that people who smoke today continue to have access to vape as a quit aid , which will absolutely not change , but we can not replace one generation that be hook on nicotine in cigarette with another that be hook on nicotine in vape . that be why we be use this Bill to take power to restrict flavour and packaging , and to change how vape be display in shop . to reassure the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee and my right hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Sir Jake Berry ) , we plan to consult on that before the end of the Parliament , if practicable . the disposable vape ban will likely take effect in April 2025 — those regulation have already be publish . these be common - sense proposal that strike the right balance between help retailer to prepare , give sufficient notice and protect child from get hooked on nicotine , while at the same time support current smoker to quit by switch to vape as a less harmful quit aid , support by £ 138 million a year . our approach be realistic for those who smoke now and resolute in protect child . I be convinced that , just like ban smoking in indoor public place and raise the age of sale to 18 , these measure will seem commonsensical to all of we in 10 year ' time . in decade to come , our great - grandchild will look back and think : why on earth do they not do it soon ? I urge all right hon . and hon . member to vote for this Bill as the big public intervention in history . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the Bill be now read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Paula Barker John Baron Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Paul Beresford Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradshaw Jack Brereton Steve Brine Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Greg Clark James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Edward Davey Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Steve Double Stephen Doughty Oliver Dowden Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield Philip Dunne Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Ruth Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Laura Farris Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mike Freer Louie French Gill Furniss Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Patricia Gibson Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Peter Grant Chris Grayling Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood James Grundy Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Mark Harper Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes Oliver Heald John Healey Chris Heaton - Harris Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Rachel Hopkins John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Mike Kane Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Kate Kniveton Ben Lake David Lammy John Lamont Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Chris Loder Tim Loughton Holly Lynch Cherilyn Mackrory Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Stephen McPartland Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Carol Monaghan Robbie Moore Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Jill Mortimer David Mundell Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols Lia Nici John Nicolson Caroline noke Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Anum Qaisar Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Dean Russell David Rutley Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Grant Shapps Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Henry Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Ben Spencer Chris Stephens Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens John Stevenson Alistair Strathern Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Mel Stride Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Jon Trickett Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Robin Walker Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Craig Williams Hywel Williams Gavin Williamson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Daniel Zeichner Aaron Bell Mike Wood Adam Afriyie Lee Anderson Sarah Atherton Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Steven Baker Simon Baynes Jake Berry Graham Brady Suella Braverman Paul Bristow Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Jackie Doyle - Price James Duddridge Mark Eastwood George Eustice Nicholas Fletcher Mark Francois Richard Fuller George Galloway Paul Girvan Chris Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Darren Henry Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Robert Jenrick Greg Knight Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Carla Lockhart Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Rachel Maclean Anthony Mangnall Karl McCartney Anne Marie Morris Ian Paisley Jnr Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Desmond Swayne Elizabeth Truss Giles watle Sammy Wilson Gareth Johnson Craig Whittaker the House divide : Ayes 383 , Noes 67 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Tobacco and Vapes Bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Tobacco and Vapes Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 23 May . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . Tobacco and Vapes Bill : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Mr Mohindra . . ) question agree to . Tobacco and Vapes Bill : Ways and Means Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , it be expedient to authorise the charging of fee under or by virtue of the Act . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I wish to present a petition on behalf of those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal , particularly my constituent , Sean Cavens . Sean be one of the young people in the country to be infect with hepatitis as a result of be give contaminate blood product . he have campaign tirelessly for justice for those who have be impact , and he continue to raise the tragedy of those who pass away before justice be do . this be for Sean and all the other who have be impact by this scandal . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Wansbeck , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002951 ] Solar Supply Chains Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy , for grant this important debate . the solar industry will play an important role in the Government ' s net zero plan , with a target of produce 70 GW of solar energy by 2035 — a fivefold increase on our current output . it be absolutely right that solar play its part in increase our renewable energy output , but the current roll - out lack national oversight of land use , sufficient consideration of food security issue and the protection of agricultural land , and protection against the widespread exposure of solar supply chain to Uyghur force labour and genocide . will the hon . Lady give way ? it be early in my speech , but absolutely , I will give way to the hon . Gentleman . I accept that it be early in the hon . Lady ' s speech , and I thank she for give way and introduce the debate . in 2022 , I introduce a Bill in Parliament to prohibit the importation of product make by force labour from Xinjiang . no one in the UK would want to believe that the thing that they buy be the product of slave labour . the Bill would have put the onus on manufacturer to prove that they have not be make by slave labour . do she agree that it would be an important step forward if the Government adopt such a policy ? I could not agree more with the hon . gentleman — he be absolutely right . I table a very similar amendment to the Energy Bill last year , which I will touch on later . in 2021 , Sheffield Hallam University publish a report , " in broad daylight : Uyghur Forced Labour and Global Solar Supply Chains " . it summarise the situation as follow : " many indigenous worker be unable to refuse or walk away from these job , and thus the programme be tantamount to forcible transfer of population and enslavement . " the university ' s second report , " over - expose " , go far , create a rank system for solar company base on exposure to Uyghur slave labour , which I will come to later in more detail . the two report be fund by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , yet their finding do not be appear to have be enact . I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward the debate . we speak early today . she always lead from the front and I congratulate she on do that on this important issue , which hon . member may not know much about . do she agree that any hint of force labour mean this supply chain should not ever have Government backing and funding ? we must hold ourselves to the high standard on matter of force labour in every supply chain that may be centrally fund . it be no surprise that the hon . Gentleman wish to speak in this debate because he always bring compassion , heart and a real care for human right . he be right that if green energy be to make up such a substantial part of our future energy grid , we must not tolerate slave labour within it . as I mention in response to my lovely Scots nationalist friend , the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) , I table an amendment to try to ensure that any solar company wish to build in this country have to make clear its supply chain be free of Uyghur force labour . the Government be not willing to support the amendment , but I be assure they would work with I on the issue . I wish to take the opportunity to thank the many member of the House who back that effort . the Foreign Affairs Committee have undertake its own inquiry into exposure to Uyghur slave labour , as a follow up to its inquiry into the genocide in Xinjiang . I have raise the matter in countless other meeting and debate , yet we still see no action as dirty solar continue to flood the market and concrete over our field and rooftop , unchecked and unaccountable . that be why last month 43 member of this House and 32 human right organisation send a joint statement to the Government request three simple policy that could be enact to insulate the UK solar market from Uyghur force labour . the first be to introduce import control on high - risk industry to insulate our market . it be not unreasonable or too onerous to expect solar developer and manufacturer to demonstrate that their supply chain be clean of slave labour before not only operate but profit in the UK . the second request be target sanction to ban the worst - offend company so they can not operate in the UK , and the third be complementary measure to diversify solar supply chain away from Xinjiang and Uyghur force labour . by adopt these policy , the Government could clean up the UK ' s solar industry and ensure our green transition do not come off the back of slavery and genocide . I congratulate the hon . member on bring this important subject before the House . the United States and the European Union be pass law to ban solar product make by Uyghur slave labour in Xinjiang , which will leave the UK with an abundance of morally compromise solar panel . do she agree that the fight against forced labour should be a collective responsibility ? if so , do she agree that mean the UK Government must work for a clean energy transition , without be complicit in Uyghur force labour ? the hon . Gentleman be correct . the UK be risk become a global outlier , because our international partner have take action . as he say , the USA pass the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act in 2021 . the EU be in the process of pass legislation to block the import of good make with forced labour . that mean that we be become a dumping ground for these solar panel . since June 2022 , the US have seize thousand of shipment of solar material with link to Xinjiang , but we be yet to seize or block a single import . the US ' s import control be work , with the second Sheffield Hallam report show that many company have start create new supply chain for export to the US that be clean . without our own import control , the UK will continue to welcome dirty solar . the Sheffield Hallam report also offer an assessment of the exposure of the large solar company to force labour . while the chinese Communist party seek to cover up the genocide it be commit in Xinjiang by ban independent audits and investigation , and hire public relation firm that be issue lie on a daily basis , the researcher be able to use open - source research to rank the culpability of company on a scale from " none " to " very high " . let we have a look at some of those company . JA Solar have very high exposure to Uyghur force labour , yet have continually rank as the big supplier of solar module to the UK ; Jinko Solar have very high exposure , and its panel be widely available to buy in the UK ; Longi Solar have very high exposure , and its panel be widely available to buy ; Qcells have very high exposure , and its panel be widely available to buy ; REC Group TwinPeak 4 have very high exposure , and , again , its panel be widely available to buy ; Tongwei Solar have high exposure and be partner with the UK company Polysolar to distribute its panel nationally ; Trina Solar have very high exposure and a UK office in Derby ; and , finally , that bring I on to Canadian Solar , which be behind the propose 2 , 000 - acre Mallard Pass solar plant in Rutland and Lincolnshire . I wish to put this very clearly on the record : anyone who wish to look at my history in this place will know that I have raise issue around the genocide against the Uyghurs since 2016 , long before I come to this House , and specifically around slave labour in supply chain , long before this proposal come to my constituency . unfortunately , I be now in a situation where Rutland face have uyghur blood labour on our beautiful green land , and I will not accept it . Canadian Solar ' s application to build Mallard Pass , which would classify as a nationally significant infrastructure project due to its enormous size of 2 , 100 acre , be currently with the Secretary of State , who will decide whether to grant planning permission . I have lose track of the number of time that I have raise the issue of Canadian Solar — whether it be at the Foreign Affairs Committee , in this place or in Westminster Hall . People say that the definition of insanity be do the same thing over and again and expect different result , but I would argue that , in this case , insanity would be allow a company so link to the oppression and genocide of the Uyghur people to build key energy infrastructure in our country . the name Canadian Solar be an attempt at what I call " maple - washing " to distract from the true origin and operation of the company . as of December 2022 , 86 % of its annual solar module manufacturing capacity be in China ; 78 % of its solar cell manufacturing capacity be in China ; 100 % of its annual wafer and ingot manufacturing capacity be in China ; and 85 % of its employee be base in China . Canadian Solar also have letter of credit worth $ 150 million and short - term note worth $ 1 . 4 billion with chinese bank . although Canadian Solar ' s operation in China be not in themselves a concern , they offer some context as to why the company ' s supply chain be so intimately link with human right abuse in Xinjiang . in 2021 , four shipment of solar panel from Canadian Solar be seize by the US Government . why ? because of their link with slave labour from the Uyghur Xinjiang region . Canadian Solar previously operate a solar plant in the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps ' third division city of Tumxuk . the XPCC be a chinese Communist party - control paramilitary organisation in Xinjiang heavily implicate in the Uyghur genocide . in fact , four of its senior official be sanction by the UK in 2021 . accord to the Sheffield Hallam report , Canadian Solar likely benefit from this relationship with the XPCC . it also have a joint venture with GCL - Poly , one of the large supplier of polysilicon . GCL - Poly be , yet again , sanction by the US . why ? it be for " participate in the practice of , accept , or utilise force labour in Xinjiang and contribute to human right abuse against Uyghurs and other minority group in Xinjiang . " after I launch my campaign to expose Canadian Solar , it remove all reference to its partnership with GCL - Poly from its website , but , of course , archived form and press report mean that we still have the evidence of it . as of December 2021 , Canadian Solar ' s primary supplier be Longi Green Energy , Hongyuan New Material and Tongwei Solar — all company with subsidiary operate in Xinjiang with link to Uyghur force labour . I have provide full write brief on each company ' s link to force labour to the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero in the past . in June 2022 , Canadian Solar ' s own shareholder attempt to deselect several board member . why ? it be because of their inaction over force labour in the company ' s supply chain . in December 2022 , the US Commerce Department find Canadian Solar guilty of tariff dodging . this mean that it take its solar panel from China to Thailand , try to disguise they and then ship they to the US , but it be catch out . sadly , the attitude of the company be well discern by a leak email from chief financial officer Chang , who fault human right organisation for their work when he say that they " mistakenly regard any employment of Uyghurs as force labour , which have cause severe harm to the Uyghurs we all love . " there you have it , Madam Deputy Speaker . accord to Canadian Solar ' s senior management , the responsibility for the genocide and the use of slave labour lie not with the Chinese Communist party and the company which use its labour for profit , but with the brave non - governmental organisation and human right group that dare to highlight the Uyghurs ' plight . all the evidence be there . I have raise it countless time , so I want to ask this of the Minister directly : will we now change the rule for nationally significant infrastructure project so that link to force labour be finally consider ? I do not believe there be any other form of procurement in this country , particularly public sector procurement or procurement for the national good , where we do not take force labour into consideration . will the Government act against blood labour - make product pollute our shore ? if not , why not ? I want to pre - empt — rather cheekily — a point that I think the Minister might raise : the solar stewardship initiative . anyone who have follow my intervention will know that I have be sceptical of an industry - lead solution to this problem . the solar stewardship initiative lead by Solar Energy UK be publish last September . its environmental , social and governance document do not mention Uyghur force labour a single time , despite that mechanism be set up to prove that there be no slave labour within supply chain . in fact , Solar Energy UK devote only one short paragraph to force labour , but do not set out how it will be identify in supply chain or any consequence for approve company that be find to benefit from it . if we go back to the list of company that I read out — I recognise that it be long , Madam Deputy Speaker — both JA Solar and Jinko Solar , which be rank as have very high exposure to force labour , be already certify SSI member . apparently there be no problem with slave labour in their chain , despite the Foreign Office say that there be . I be very disappointed that Solar Energy UK refuse , when I meet its chief executive , to remove Canadian Solar from the industry lobby group , despite the overwhelming evidence against it . I fear that we will now see a similar attitude from Solar Energy UK create in conjunction with Solar Europe . it seem illogical to allow an industry so taint by force labour to be allow to create its own certification programme with zero external oversight . will the Minister please set out what active mechanism will exist to examine the supply chain of SSI certify member , and what the consequence will be for those find to benefit from Uyghur force labour in their supply chain ? can he confirm that he be confident that the SSI will clean up the UK solar market of its connection to Uyghur force labour ? although I believe that any solar company with link to Uyghur forced labour should be ban from operate on the UK as a matter of principle , it be also worth investigate what chinese supply chain mean in practice for our environment and go green . the process of mining for and manufacture solar panel in China rely heavily on coal power . Professor David Rogers , an expert in ecology at the University of Oxford , estimate that because of those coal - dependent supply chain , solar energy produce three unit of carbon for every one unit with wind energy . of other renewable form of energy , only biomass have a large carbon footprint than solar . in a study by the World Bank compare 240 country , the UK be find to have the second low potential for solar photovoltaic potential — only Ireland be less suited to solar energy . that explain why I be so pale — there be not much sunshine in my English - irish heritage . [ interruption . ] maybe I should talk about Scotland next , but I think I will move swiftly on . solar installation in the UK generate maximum power for an average of 2 . 6 hour a day , fall to less than one hour a day in winter . solar plant produce energy when we least need it — during hot and sunny period — but contribute next to nothing during peak in demand in winter , when it be dark and cold . battery storage be carbon intensive and can extend solar power supply by only 2 hour a day , and not in between season . a 140 - acre solar plant can provide enough electricity for roughly 9 , 000 home , while just one wind turbine in the North sea can power 16 , 000 home . we be not bless with abundant sunshine — I be live proof — but we have plenty of wind and the Celtic sea , so why do the Government continue to sacrifice green - belt and agriculturally rich land for inefficient , carbon - intensive solar , make with Uyghur slave labour , when we should invest in wind energy , a technology that the UK lead in ? we should be so proud of our record on wind — we have achieve enormous thing . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) for secure a Westminster Hall debate on solar plant on Thursday . I hope that the Minister will note how many debate be be hold on this issue , and I hope that member ' concern be consider significant . another issue that have increasingly be raise be the need to protect our good and most versatile agricultural land . in respond to a write question that I submit in February , the Minister confirm that DESNZ be not currently monitor what type of land or how much land be be use for solar development across our country , and have no plan to do so . there be over 400 farm in my constituency , so that be deeply concern . how be the Department able to answer member ' question about how much BMV land be be lose if the Government themselves be not record it ? however , I have have a conversation with the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , and he give I hope that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be record that information . the Mallard Pass solar plant alone would see 1 , 000 acre of grade 1 BMV land lose — not grade 2 or 3 but grade 1 — yet that might not even be record or notice by the Government . although the total amount of UK land use for solar might be small , the type of land be lose be key . crop and solar like the same thing : flat , sunny landscape . it be therefore no surprise that over 50 % of all solar application in this country be in Rutland and Lincolnshire . two county that be the breadbasket of the UK be now be concrete over with solar panel , so at a time of global food insecurity when 46 % of our food be import , do the Minister agree that food security should be a Government priority , and will he instruct his official to begin to monitor how much solar be be build , what type , and in what area ? I be relieved that the farming Secretary will bring forward a national land strategy , which be something else I have be campaign for . I hope that strategy will well protect BMV land . finally , I previously meet the Government to discuss compensation scheme for solar , so will the Minister please provide an update on when we can expect a new industry standard for solar compensation ? the wind energy industry come together , which be absolutely right — it put forward a proposal that be now standard throughout the country — yet in Rutland , for example , we be offer something like £ 100 , 000 or £ 400 , 000 to compensate we for the next 40 year of lose 2 , 100 acre of good - quality arable land , with one of our village , Essendine , 96 % surround by solar . the evidence of Uyghur force labour in the solar industry supply chain be abundant . it be lay out in Foreign Office - fund report , in the evidence collect by the Foreign Affairs Committee , in sanction impose by the US Government and in the document of the offend company themselves . over the past four year , I have do all I can to shine a light on that evidence , and now , with the support of 42 member of this House and 32 human right organisation , I have ask for three simple policy to bring the UK in line with our international partner so that we do not become a dumping ground and can finally clear up the solar industry . the first policy be to introduce import control ; the second be to sanction the bad company ; and the third be to enact complementary measure to diversify . Solar should be part of the final make - up of our energy platform , but it must be on building , on brownfield and on grade 4 land . I also ask the Minister to commit to reach out to his counterpart in the US and EU to discuss their Uyghur force labour import control and how we can learn from they . our transition to net zero be gather pace , and we must not let up . I be so proud that we have decarbonise fast than any other major government — what we have do be an incredible achievement — but we can not go green off the back of slavery , genocide and blood labour . our green and pleasant land be be taint by solar panel produce with that Uyghur blood labour , and it be the responsibility of all of we and the Government to prevent it . I see it as a new form of great injustice that we will be go green off the back of solar panel make in dirty circumstance in China , because we do not see how they be make — not least how they harm the environment where they be make , but also the slave labour that we then benefit from in our country . there be a really concern historical parallel there . we have the information , we have the solution , and now all we need be some action : work with our ally , fall in line with international standard and do what we all know be the right thing . we refuse to allow the Uyghur genocide to continue , yet somehow play a role in it . I know the Minister deeply care about slave labour — he speak out frequently on these issue when he be a Back Bencher — and be very aware of the threat from the Chinese Communist party and the way in which it treat uyghur activist and all those live in Xinjiang . I thank he for the fact that his door be always open to I , and that he always take the time to discuss these issue with I , but we do need to take action and we need to do so now . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) — she be a friend — for secure an incredibly important debate . I absolutely recognise her dedication to this serious issue and her eagerness to tackle it , note her recent joint letter to the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , alongside the Foreign Secretary and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade . let I be very clear and get right to the issue : UK business and solar developer should not countenance receive solar panel from company that may be link to force labour . this government have be very clear on our position regard the abhorrent practice of force labour , and our expectation that company will do everything in their power to remove any instance of force labour from their supply chain . that be why it be this Conservative Government who introduce new guidance on the risk of do business in Xinjiang , who enhance export control , and who announce the introduction of financial penalty for those who fail to report as require under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . it be this Government who lead the charge , announce in September 2020 a requirement that large business and public body report on specific area within their modern slavery statement , include their due diligence process in relation to modern slavery . additionally , it be this Government who recently pass the Procurement Act 2023 , enable public sector contracting authority to reject bid from supplier that be know to use force labour themselves , or anywhere in their supply chain , and terminate contract with such supplier . however , this remain a complex issue , and my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton be absolutely right : we must continue to review how we can well tackle force labour in supply chain . I can promise she that we have not rule out take further and additional measure in the future . across every part of Government , not just in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , we be continue to engage and work with our international partner to understand the impact of measure to combat force labour around the world . the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have a strong record of hold country to account for instance of force labour . the Government have lead international effort to make China accountable for its human right violation in Xinjiang . we be the first country to lead a joint statement on China ' s human right record in Xinjiang at the UN , and our leadership have sustain pressure on China to change its behaviour . in October 2023 , the UK lead another joint statement on Xinjiang at the UN , and at China ' s universal periodic review in January the UK urge China to cease the persecution of Uyghurs and allow they genuine freedom of religion or belief and cultural expression without fear of surveillance , torture , force labour or sexual violence . we have also impose sanction and consistently raise China ' s human right violation with the chinese authority at the high level . the Foreign Secretary last do so with China ' s Foreign Minister in February . on the solar sector in general and the presence of force labour in solar supply chain , I should first set out the importance of solar energy as a key part of the Government ' s strategy for net zero , energy independence and growth . as my hon . Friend say , we be aim for 70 GW of solar capacity by 2035 . the UK have huge potential for solar power , which be a cheap , versatile and effective technology that be a key part of the Government ' s strategy for net zero , energy independence and clean growth . it be part of our wide energy mix , and she be absolutely right to reference our strong leadership in offshore wind . we have the first to the fifth large offshore wind farm in the world , and we be invest in new technology and , indeed , in our new nuclear capacity , so this be part of a wide mix to get to our net zero future . on solar , I recently co - chair the final meeting of the solar taskforce , alongside Solar Energy UK , at 10 Downing Street . in fact , in the solar taskforce — and thank to the pressure from my hon . friend — we establish a specific sub - group to consider the wide - range action need to develop solar supply chain that be resilient , sustainable , innovative and free from forced labour . this work will inform the Government ' s solar road map , due to be publish in the next few month , which will set out the trajectory and action need to deploy up to 70 GW by 2035 . one of the main topic of discussion at the solar taskforce be the solar stewardship initiative , which my hon . friend mention . it be a solar supply chain assurance scheme develop , pilot , audit and launch by the UK ' s main trade association , Solar Energy UK , work alongside its european counterpart , SolarPower Europe . in fact , the UK Government co - sponsor the development and publication of Action Sustainability ' s " address Modern Slavery and Labour Exploitation in Solar pv Supply Chains Procurement Guidance " , to provide further tool to industry to ensure the responsible sourcing of solar panel . I have be largely pleased to see the response from the industry follow our work on this issue , and I be delighted to highlight that , on 28 March , 55 company and organisation across the solar sector sign a supply chain statement highlight their commitment to ensure that the solar sector be free from any human right abuse , include force labour , anywhere in the global supply chain . resilient , sustainable and innovative supply chain be essential to support the significant increase in solar deployment need to deliver the UK ' s ambition for 70 GW of solar capacity by 2035 . I meet the chief executive of Solar Energy UK and ask he , " what happen if one of the company that sign up to your solar stewardship scheme isn ' t keep itself free of slave labour ? what will you do ? " he do not have an answer for I , and I say , " well , will you kick they out ? will you exclude they ? " he say , " we don ' t have a mechanism to do that . " so have thing change in that there be now a mechanism to exclude ? how be we make sure that it be actually be audit ? the chief executive say that Solar Energy UK be take a company ' s word for it , when one sign up , that it be free from slave labour . company be not have to provide any evidence that they be free of slave labour when they sign up for the initiative . on my hon . friend ' s latter point , there will be more detail on exactly how the auditing process will proceed when we publish the solar road map in the next few month . on her former point , I must be absolutely clear from this Dispatch Box that if a company be engage in buy piece of equipment that they knowingly know have be develop use slave labour in Xinjiang , or indeed anywhere else in the world , they should be hold to account and they absolutely should not be allow to remain a part of the initiative . that be absolutely the view of the Department , this Government and , indeed , the wide industry . the Government already encourage developer to grow sustainable supply chain through the supply chain plan process include in the contract for difference scheme for project over 300 MW . the Minister refer to 55 company , and I presume they include company from Northern Ireland . it be important that we have a policy that affect all of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland so they be all accountable . I assure the hon . gentleman that what we be speak about and the industry initiative that I be lay out cover every part of our United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and if any company be involve in Northern Ireland , they will of course be cover by the scheme and initiative and , indeed , by the legislation we have pass to ensure that we get to the root cause and remove slave labour from the supply chain . the UK have the scope to grow industry that produce innovative solar technology while also crystallise our position as world leader in cut - edge solar research and development . in do so we can create new green job and provide levelling - up and significant export opportunity while build up UK capability and resilience and increase energy security by reduce our reliance on import . meanwhile , we support our ally ’ effort to increase and accelerate the diversification of solar supply chain by reshore manufacturing . we continue to work with country include the US , Canada and Germany to ensure that access to solar supply chain remain resilient . my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton refer to the situation of solar on agricultural land . the Government recognise that in some instance solar project can affect the local environment . it be important that the Government can strike the right balance between such consideration and secure a clean , green energy system for the future . that be why the planning system be design to take account of such issue . however , I be aware of the number of issue arise from deployment and plan application , and I be engage on the issue with many colleague and their community , discuss with they what we can do to ensure that community concern be listen to . I again thank my hon . friend for bring forward this important issue , and look forward to continue to engage with she on it . question put and agree to . House adjourn .