I begin by thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and Mr Speaker ' s whole team for all your support this year . it have be much appreciated . speak in the second Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate be a huge privilege for I . it be wonderful to hear so many warm wish and memory , which I know be of great comfort to Lady Amess and the whole family . many people have say to I , " when be a plaque go to go up in this Chamber to commemorate Sir David ? " . I be delighted to tell the House that that plaque have now be design . it be nearly ready . I know we be not allow to use prop , and I will not , but I want to tell the House that if anyone want to come and see the plaque , it be extremely beautiful . I have a copy on the Bench here . the motto say , " his light remain " , which I think be incredibly apt . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I must start by say how delighted Sir David would have be that the Boundary Commission have decide not to break up his beloved Southend West constituency , and I be delighted that I will continue to represent the people of the Eastwood and St Laurence ward . I look forward to add the people from St Lukes ward . our new outstanding sport reporter at the Echo , Chris Phillips , recently play tennis for 11 hour non - stop to raise money for South East and Central Essex Mind , raise £ 12 , 000 . that take his total fundraising to more than £ 100 , 000 . he be a community hero . it be also wonderful to know that Leigh - on - Sea will be recognise in our constituency name . it be , after all , name in the Domesday Book . I must declare an interest , because it be where I be bear . next , I must highlight our great success in the May election . Sir David would have love the fact that we now have 14 conservative town councillor — a comfortable majority on Leigh - on - Sea Town Council — and that we take back control of Southend - on - Sea City Council with two new conservative councillor , include the excellent Owen Cartey in West Leigh , who happen to be my councillor . I be also delighted this year to welcome as mayor Councillor Stephen Habermel of Chalkwell , with his choose charity Havens Hospices and the incredible , awe - inspire Music Man Project , which some member hear play brilliantly again last night in College Green . they recently play at No . 10 , and there be not a dry eye in the house . they be soon to come to Parliament . People often ask I , " what have you be do for our constituency ? what be your priority ? " . my first priority this last year have be to make Southend West safe . I be delighted that we now have 83 more police officer , three new set of knife detection pole and new CCTV camera in Old Leigh . our pioneer Operation Union be not only be repeat this summer , but be roll out nationwide . thank to the inspirational Julie Taylor , we have blee kit available in ever more pub and club . I be particularly delighted that by work with the brilliant local policeman , Inspector Paul Hogben , our conservative police and crime commissioner , Roger Hirst , and the Home Office , we be soon to ban nitrous oxide , and zombie knife in all their form will soon be completely outlaw in private place . that will make Southend safe , and that be much to be commend . I must also commend Eastwood Academy which , through I , feed into the recent Home Office consultation . that be not all . make Southend West healthy have also be a top priority , and with the support of this Conservative Government , my hon . friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , we have secure the delivery of more than £ 8 million for a reconfigured A & E department at Southend University Hospital , more than £ 1 million for a new active discharge lounge , 11 new ambulance and 111 new ambulance staff . with other south Essex colleague , we have finally secure from the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care an absolute promise that the remain £ 110 million pledge to improve our local hospital be secure , and we await an update in - scope business plan . I pay tribute to the work of those from the Lady McAdden Breast Cancer Trust who , with their knit knocker , will be return to Parliament during Breast Cancer Awareness Week this autumn . thank to the work of Sam Batstone , we now have free suncream dispenser along some of our beach . work with Chalkwell Lifeguards , I have sponsor one of they myself , and I thank Philip Miller , the CEO of Adventure Island , for sponsor another . I thank everybody who work so hard in our NHS in Southend West for the incredible work that they do . that be one of the reason I be campaign for a dedicated NHS medal to recognise their outstanding service , just as we already have for the police , the Army , the Post Office and the fire service . of course , that be not all . my third priority have be to make Southend West wealthy , so I be delighted we kick of the year by be give the pier of the year award . I know the pier be not in Southend West , but as many member know , Sir David stray right across Southend in this place and in his patch . Southend be already home to incredible music , theatre and art , which be why I want to see we finally become a city of culture in 2029 . I have be to at least 50 production in the past year alone , include by the brilliant Love2Sign choir , the Southend Operatic and Dramatic Society , Leigh Orpheus , Cantare , the Show Choir and the Eastwood Chorale , to name but a few . we have an incredible seaside and underwater heritage , include the London shipwreck . we have five blue flag beach — the most anywhere in the east of England — and the big ferris wheel in the south - east . we have have eight seaside award , and we have a grow number of octopus , dolphin , porpoise and seal . of course , no city can prosper without a thriving local economy , which be why I be delighted to spearhead a new banking hub at Leigh Broadway , and to help our fisherman — Osborne ' s , Deal ' s and Fruits of the Sea — to negotiate their new fishing licence . we must have a transport system fit for a city , and with this Conservative Government , that be exactly what we be go to get . we now have a new bus route , 12 new state - of - the - art train , with contactless ticketing come , and upgrade to the A13 . I have be very clear that we must not lose any of our ticketing staff at any of the station in my patch . there be hero everywhere in Southend West , which be why I have have to launch a community hero scheme , alongside my local paper , the Echo and the Leigh - on - Sea News . I thank and pay tribute to their editor , Chris Hatton and Mike Guy , for their support in make this happen . already nominate by the community , we have have community hero Jill Allen - King , Chalkwell Lifeguards , the Love2Sign choir , Anne Thurgood , Sharon Gatland , Brenda Barnes , Claire Harper , Steve Ellis , Jack Venturini , David Dutton , Bob Haze and 14 - year - old Maryse Fisher , with many other to come . of course , that be not all . in time - honour fashion , I must also recognise the work of the Bluetits , Southend Against Sewage and all 29 of our local headteacher . with 28 of our 29 school be good or outstanding , I welcome wholeheartedly the £ 78 . 6 billion of record funding for our school .