  " do well , doubt not " be the motto of the Borough of Tunbridge Wells and be my theme when , 19 year ago in this Chamber , from the other side of the House , I make my maiden speech . that motto be not a bad piece of advice and encouragement to a new Member of Parliament , and I have try to take it to heart during these 19 year . in my maiden speech I say we need to get the A21 dualle , we need to get a new hospital build at Pembury and we need to help the many people in Tunbridge Wells , a place associate with prosperity , who be in need . now , 19 year on , we have get the A21 dualle , we have get a new hospital , and it have be my privilege as well as pleasure to help many thousand of people with their difficulty and help they solve some of the problem they have face in their life . Tunbridge Wells be a town with a vigorous voluntary sector . I be proud to be the patron , president or vice - president of many organisation , such as the Tunbridge Wells Mental Health Resource , the Sea Cadets and the Hospice in the Weald . for my ability to do all of these thing the people of Tunbridge Wells , who for five consecutive general election have return I to Parliament . I could not have stand for election without the support of those in my marvellous conservative association , who first select I and have be staunch in their support throughout . they be friend as well as colleague , and I be very grateful to they . I would like to say a big thank you to my office team who support I . I thank my current team , who be in the Gallery with we today : Diane Talbot , and Oliver Gill , who remarkably as a very young man help draft and get pass a private member ' s Bill to make for the first time it a criminal offence to sexually harass woman and girl in public — that be a remarkable legislative achievement for someone very early in his career . we send our love to Fiona Lloyd Williams , who be currently battle with some health difficulty ; she herself have battle on behalf of constituent as my caseworker . I thank Annie Jack and Sam Howard , the new member of my team , and in the past Rachel Godfrey , Matthew Dickens , Adam Hignett , Peter Franklin , David Mercier , Alexine Bullett and Joanna Gunn have support I marvellously . Mr Speaker , may I thank you for your kindness and that of your staff over the year , and thank all the staff of the House , particularly the Select Committee staff ? I have have the privilege of chairing what have be the most stimulating and exciting Committee of this Parliament : the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . our weekly hearing during the height of the pandemic be broadcast live on all the national tv channel . some of the hearing — a certain one last seven hour — attract an audience in the million . have have the privilege of serve the country in government , I would like to thank all the brilliant civil servant we have . I benefit in particular from two marvellous principal private secretary , Alex Williams and Jacqui Ward , during my time as Secretary of State . I thank the special adviser I have , include Jacob Willmer , Glenn Hall , Meg Powell - Chandler and Will Holloway . finally , I want to thank my family . my parent John and Pat be at the count , share my excitement when I be first elect to this place . I thank my amazing wife Helen and our three child , every one unique and talented and very different . for Allegra , Leila and Peter , their whole life , almost , have be spend with I come to this place and with weekend be take up with constituent — I could not have do it without they . it have be a pleasure and an honour to serve the country as well as my constituent , which I could not have do have it not be for the people of Tunbridge Wells return I to this place . I be the son of a milkman from Middlesborough . I be the first person in any generation of my family to have be educate beyond the age of 16 . to have be able to do what I have do in this place and in government be entirely down to the people of Tunbridge Wells , so I express my gratitude to they for return I to this place . there be 650 constituency in this country , but I defer to the word of H . g . Wells , who when he contemplate Tunbridge Wells say : " Tunbridge Wells be Tunbridge Wells , and there be really nothing like it upon our planet . "