thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech during a debate that be so relevant to my own wonderful constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , in the heart of Cornwall . I come to this place — and I be disappointed that the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) be not present to hear I say this — with 30 year of business experience in the automotive sector and , latterly , in the renewable electricity sector . I thank all those who have give their maiden speech today ; they be all truly heartfelt , wonderful speech . my own inspiration for be here come from my three child , my daughter and my two son , who join we in the Public Gallery today . I want first to pay tribute to my predecessor , George Eustice , for his work on animal welfare as Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , as well as his support for local project in Cornwall such as Kresen Kernow , the cornish archive , and — despite our profound difference on our relationship with the EU — the honourable way in which he be prepared to criticise trade arrangement make by the conservative party . it be an unparalleled privilege to represent one ' s home constituency , and the tie that bind cornish man and woman to our homeland be weave into every sinew of our being . the constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle be a truly remarkable place : the place where I be bear and grow up and where I live . to understand Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , I respectfully ask you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to transport yourself in your mind to the summit of a single rocky hill , smack bang in the middle of the constituency . this rocky hill be call Carn Brea , which be , in fact , Cornish for " rocky hill " . at the summit of Carn Brea sit the Basset monument , look down from 750 foot across the constituency . the monument be fund by public subscription in 1836 after Basset himself petitioned the other place against slavery in 1828 . to the north of Carn Brea , just 4 mile away , the Celtic sea sparkle in the sunlight and lap the beautiful beach of Gwithian , Portreath , Porthtowan , St Agnes and Perranporth — the Celtic sea , which offer the prospect of vast quantity of electricity generate from offshore wind , an opportunity that I dearly hope this Government will grasp . look to the west from Carn Brea we see the town of Camborne , pronounce " Kammbronn " in Cornish , mean " crooked hill " . it be a town that , along with its near neighbour Redruth , be synonymous with our tin mining heritage . the two town be once among the wealthy in Britain , help to drive the economy for more than four century . nestle in front of Camborne , a large flag of St Piran flutter in the breeze . this flag sit at the top of the South Crofty tin mine . there can be no fine physical symbol of the potential for the return of the cornish economic powerhouse than South Crofty — the last tin mine to close , in 1998 . the economic wind have dramatically change since then , and tin , which be use in the production of virtually every electrical device , be now also be use in the production of solar panel and , along with lithium , form the cornerstone of our critical mineral industry . we import tin from as far afield as China and Australia , with all the damaging environmental impact that come with such import , yet in Camborne and Redruth we sit on the third high - grade tin deposit in the world , and there be plenty of it . our sense of pride in our mining heritage , which be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , and the possibility of our tin mining renaissance be a constant source of hope and optimism for an area that have be damn by industrial decline for decade . but back to the summit of Carn Brea and basset ' s monument . far over to the west , on the horizon behind Camborne , be Hayle , the third large town in the constituency . although the official title of my constituency be Camborne and Redruth , woe betide I if I do not mention Hayle in the same breath . Hayle be a vital natural seaport , ready to serve the new opportunity in the Celtic sea , and it include a very large estuary . indeed , the cornish word for estuary be hayl . I have strong familial tie with the town , where my great - uncle , the Slade family , once run a steel engineering business on South Quay . let we look directly south from Carn Brea now , to the gentle rolling hill lead down through the beautiful cornish granite village of Stithians , Mawnan Smith and Constantine , and then on to the two stunning subtropical garden of Glendurgan and Trebah , which , in turn , lead down to the Helford river , from where thousand of american troop set off on D - day to free Europe from fascism . to the east of Carn Brea lie Redruth , the Cornish meaning of which be " red ford " , the cornish word for " red " be " ruth " and the word for " ford " be " red " — obviously ! redruth be rapidly become a cultural hub , and I strongly recommend visit to Krowji creative hub , Kresen Kernow — the aforementione archive centre — the Buttermarket , and the Ladder art and culture hub . our former prosperity be evident throughout the centre of Redruth , with impose granite building that be awaken with new life after a deep slumber . far to the east , beyond Redruth , can be find the village of Carharrack and St Day , which serve as a hub for one of the world ' s wealthy copper mining district from the 16th century to the 1830 . just beyond they be United Downs , where Cornish Lithium , Geothermal Engineering and ground source heat pump company be base . these business have the potential to play key role in Britain ' s economic transformation . we have tin , lithium , geothermal and ground source heat , but we be also bless with the opportunity of offshore wind in the Celtic sea , onshore wind , solar and tidal . there be very few place in the UK in which renewable energy and critical mineral opportunity be so abundant . the renewable energy opportunity be not the only factor that make this land so distinct . let I quickly give three other example . first , 10 year ago Cornwall be grant national minority status under the european framework convention for the protection of national minority . our language , our culture and our heritage , as well as our economic potential , mark we out on this island . secondly , the positive reaction receive by all six cornish mps on both side of the House for take our oath in Cornish be tell . almost half our child and young people consider themselves first and foremost Cornish . finally , on Saturday my brother Dickon will be make a bard of the Gorsedh , the high honour that can be bestow on a cornish man or woman . this be an honour award to people who have give exceptional service to Cornwall by a manifestation of the celtic spirit or by service to Cornwall . it be these cultural difference that mark we out . it have be clear on the doorstep over the past two year that there be a strong desire for a non - mayoral model of governance arrangement with Westminster . my hope and my focus in come week and month will be to persuade the Government that the most appropriate devolution arrangement for Cornwall be an Assembly similar to that of our celtic cousin in Wales . in term of economic development , culture and governance , the time have come to throw open the cage door and unleash the cornish celtic tiger . for my part , I will put all my energy into represent the people of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle to the good of my ability . to do so will be the honour of my life . Meur ra — thank you .