prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . Strategic Litigation against Public Participation Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the second time . I have be a Member of Parliament for nearly 23 year . [ hon . member : " no ! ] I know it be difficult to believe for some , but it be true . this be the first occasion on which my name have be draw in the private Member ' s Bill ballot ; I be pleased to say my name be draw fourth . I think long and hard about the most appropriate and good piece of draft legislation to bring forward . I decide on this Bill , because I genuinely think it be incredibly important , and I will set out to the House why that be . the Bill tackle strategic litigation against public participation case , widely know as slapp , in all their form . last year , I and the Labour Opposition welcome the measure enact in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 that ensure that slapp relate to economic crime can be tackle . I be pleased to bring forward a Bill to expand on that . reform to protect freedom of speech and the public interest be something that all party in Parliament hold dear . in all debate in this House and the other place there have be a broad consensus about the need for reform to tackle the pernicious effect of slapp . however , in both Houses it have be clear that the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act do not go far enough . slapp have take and do take many form . it be vital to bring forward legislation that genuinely tackle the issue in a holistic and rounded sense . there be many example of slapp . I will refer to a few high - profile case that have reach court and receive some publicity , and to other that have not receive that much publicity . I begin with a case that I be sure hon . member will be aware of , because it have attract a great deal of attention . in 2022 , a defamation case be reportedly bring against the journalist Tom Burgis , the Financial Times and publisher HarperCollins by a Kazakh mining company . the case concern a book by Burgis entitle " Kleptopia : how dirty Money be conquer the World " . a defamation case be bring by Roman Abramovich against journalist Catherine Belton and HarperCollins regard her book " Putin ' s People " . it be an excellent book and well worth read . there be a legal assault on the book through a number of lawsuit in quick succession , justifiably provoke a group of campaigner for free expression to state that London ' s court be become the venue of choice for legal action design to " quash critical journalism " . Catherine Belton , the author of " Putin ' s People " , have call for the introduction of reform to tackle this global industry , base here in London . hopefully , the Bill will begin to address this significant problem seriously . then there be the case of Amersi v . Leslie . a british business owner , Mohamed Amersi , bring a defamation case against Charlotte Leslie , a former Conservative MP and managing director of the Conservative Middle East Council . I be familiar with the case , because I be the shadow Minister for the middle east and north Africa . the case concern a memo on amersi ' s background and dealing with Russia . it be put together in response to his attempt to become the chair of cmec . the claim by Amersi be strike out , because he have fail to show how the memo cause serious harm to his reputation . it be not only high - profile case that involve slapp . there be the case of Nina Cresswell who name a person who violently sexually assault she after her original report be dismiss by the police . she commendably want to alert other woman who may become victim of sexual assault . the man who be name sue she for defamation . Ms Cresswell win a landmark judgment last year , but the very fact that she have to fight the case at all demonstrate the huge gap that slapp claimant be only too ready to exploit , and we need to address that fact . I have also hear story of patient who have leave negative review for botched plastic surgery be issue with slapp claim by the surgeon . I have hear of tenant who have speak out about their uninhabitable housing be issue with slapp claim by their landlord . that be wrong and it must be stop . I have give a few example of relatively high - profile case , and also of some that be not so well know . there be many case that do not attract any attention in court and there be many more that we do not know about because individual be intimidate before legal proceeding actually commence . the datum that the Government have be only the tip of the iceberg . as I have suggest , slapp be extremely pernicious before any action reach court . pre - action letter and legal pressure be apply well before proceeding be initiate . this often result in the search or the investigation be withdraw before publication , or , in some case , in a whole variety of different area , the effectiveness of threat and intimidation be such that the case never see the light of day . accordingly , that will never be reflect in available datum . then we come to the press in this country . let we remember that , as a country that champion freedom both here and abroad , we must ensure that our free press , which be a real pillar of our democracy , never feel so vulnerable that it self - censor on vital matter in the public interest . no one in the United Kingdom be above the law . furthermore , no one should be above proper scrutiny on a matter of public interest . as to the datum we have , the provision of figure from the coalition against slapp in Europe be deeply concern in themselves . it estimate that there be 29 slapp in England and Wales in 2022 . that be up from 25 in 2021 and 11 in 2020 . case ' s August 2023 report record that the total figure in Europe over the past decade be 793 . the hon . member mention the coalition against slapp in Europe . I wonder whether he agree with the Anti - SLAPP coalition that the propose Bill , as draft , would introduce a subjective test , require a court to infer the state of mind and purpose of the filer . do he agree with I that that would create complexity , cost and delay , which would potentially make the Bill ineffective ? it be an issue that have to be consider carefully , and , indeed , it have be give a great deal of consideration and much debate . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? may I just respond to the other point that have be make ? it be vital that this issue be consider properly and deeply . I hope very much that , if we be successful today , the debate will continue into Committee , so that further consideration may be give to that issue . at the moment , I be err on the side of what be suggest by my private Member ' s Bill . I think the Bill strike a balance . it be not quite accurate to talk about subjectivity and objectivity , because a judge will have to make a determination on the fact that be present and his knowledge of how the case be be conduct . at the moment I err in favour of say that there be a false dichotomy , but it be something that should be consider far in Committee . I join in concordance with the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) . this be an excellent piece of legislation and I be very broadly in support of it . I just want to respond to the comment from the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) . subjectivity be actually a fundamental part of our legal system already : we talk often of the man on the Clapham omnibus . it be the reasonableness test , so I do not think there be anything in the Bill that be out of scope or inappropriate . I be inclined to agree with that comment , as my Bill suggest , but it be something that need to have more airing and more consideration . detailed consideration in Committee would be an appropriate place for that to happen . as other have say many time , most slapp - relate activity take place below the radar before a formal court case and court claim be issue . there be a number of reason why slapp be so bad , and why SLAPPs claimant be so successful in their warped objective of perpetrate they . commonly , the comparatively modest mean of a defendant be leveraged against they to encourage retraction or the abandonment of the important research that would shine a light on questionable behaviour . bully tactic can include huge threatened litigation cost and damage , and all of the unbearable consequence such as bankruptcy and loss of home and livelihood , as well as the emotional distress that entail . all of that can cause huge hardship and psychological pressure . sadly , many people be not able to withstand all of that . so many of the case be like David and Goliath , but if David have no slingshot . I should be clear about why the unfairness of a legal system that allow all of that have to be challenge and change . that be why I be bring forward the Bill today . we must eradicate the harm cause by that kind of aggressive litigation . we must protect publisher , author and advocate from spurious claim and empower they to forge ahead with publish legitimate story . ground , well - research investigative reporting must be protect , not rein in for fear of colossal legal cost . we must do our utmost to protect and empower ordinary people , and give they the confidence to use the legal system of this country to ensure fairness in the public interest . of course , protect journalist or anyone else can not be at the expense of deny claimant their right of access to justice . but at present , the fact that claimant can wrongly exploit the justice system to obfuscate the transparency that be essential in a healthy democracy mean that an important balance must be strike . as thing stand , that be clearly not the case , and that be why I call for urgent reform today . robust action to counter slapp in all their form be need and it be need now . I have seek to work alongside the Government to ensure that the approach underpin the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act — which be positively receive across civil society , medium and the legal profession , include the regulator — remain largely intact in the Bill as it achieve what be necessary . the Bill will therefore keep , for the most part , the definition of a slapp claim in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act , but it will also broaden the scope and capture all slapp in future . in future , any slapp case in which speak out be in the public interest , include for publication on economic crime , will be catch . let I address the component of the definition . first , the claimant will have act to restrain the defendant ' s exercise of their right to freedom of speech . secondly , the exercise of that right will have be in the pursuit of the public interest , or expose potential wrongdoing or other bad behaviour , such as illegality or untruth , or matter to do with public health and safety or the climate and the environment . thirdly , the claimant will have misuse litigation for its threat to cause harm to the defendant , specifically through harassment , stress or expense , which be beyond that which can be ordinarily expect in properly conduct litigation . the last point include an important distinction . legal case almost always bring a measure of stress and expense to the party involve , give their serious nature . as I have say , slapp claim be often design to generate excessive stress and expense in pursuit of a remedy that be a mere fig leaf , or excuse to allow the real harm that the claimant wish to cause . one thing that distinguish a slapp claim be that the legal action be not pursue for the appropriate remedy , but as a means , in its own right , of bring oppression to bear . to safeguard against that harm in an effective and proportionate way , include by ensure that legitimate claim can proceed , the Bill will introduce a new early dismissal test . claimant will have to show that they be more likely than not to succeed at trial . where they can not do so , the case will be strike out . in addition , much of the harm in SLAPP claim lie in the risk of adverse cost that defendant face . a properly function early dismissal mechanism will assist in remove many of the risk to the defendant . however , for slapp claim that be not dismiss early , the Bill will introduce a new cost regime that protect defendant from cost that they would usually pay if they lose the case . that will ensure that defendant can defend themselves properly and that the risk of cost do not force they to settle claim unnecessarily . the underpinning principle of that new cost regime be include in the provision , but the detail will be introduce under the usual cost regime - make power through rule of court . together , those provision will initially require only new civil procedure rule to give they shape and maximise their effectiveness , as the evidence available show that slapp be focus on civil proceeding . however , the provision can be extend by regulation to any other proceeding as necessary , such as the online procedure rule . I trust that the Government will make necessary regulation when claimant who be well resource and able to exploit any perceive loophole choose other court in which to pursue slapp . that will also help to ensure that the Bill be future - proof . slapp be likely to evolve , and we need legal infrastructure to be robust enough to meet future challenge . as a result of the Bill , the court will have the necessary tool and guidance to deal swiftly with all slapp , which aim to stifle freedom of speech . investigative journalist will also be empower to expose wrongdoing in all its form , whatever that may be . it be my hope that defendant in such case will , as a consequence , feel safe from attempt to wrongly exploit our legal system . journalist and other will be empower to shine a light on criminal misconduct wherever they find it , whatever form it take , without fear of spurious claim be make against they . unscrupulous individual or corporation brazenly misuse our court and legal system to further their agenda , to the detriment of the public interest , though it be wrong to do so as a matter of principle . the public must know about wrongdoing and corruption , so that our democratic society can function and the rule of law can be preserve . this Bill recognise the breadth and depth of slapp ; currently , the law focus solely on economic crime , but slapp can be find in all area of the law . this all - embrace legislation against slapp be , I believe , a truly significant step in ensure freedom of speech and remove a clear abuse of our legal system . I therefore urge colleague across the House to give the Bill their full support . we in this House should all be proud of this country ' s international reputation for uphold the rule of law . in the current global climate , and follow the recent murder of russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny , that be a freedom that we can not take for grant . Navalny be an incredibly brave man , and his wife should be an inspiration to we all . Navalny want the world to know the truth about what kind of man Putin be , and today , we be help he in that aim . the protection of our legal system must be a priority for all in this House , ensure that this country ' s reputation continue long into the future . for that reason , I thank the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) for bring this Bill before Parliament today , and I urge all colleague to support it . we be here because we have to beef up the law to far ensure that we do not allow our legal system to be manipulate and abuse by bad - faith actor wish to shut down freedom of the press and freedom of speech . in 2021 , an investigation by the New York Times find that in four of the six prior year , litigant from Russia and Kazakhstan have be involve in more civil case in England than any other foreign national . those case seek order to freeze the asset of people worldwide . individual and corporation — many from country where the freedom we enjoy in this country do not exist — use strategic litigation against public participation claim to harass and intimidate journalist and author out of share information that those party do not want see or know . the prime example be a case bring by multiple russian billionaire , include former Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich , who attempt to sue the author and publisher of the book " Putin ' s People " . that book delve deep into the relationship between those oligarch and russian President Vladimir Putin — a relationship that those individual care deeply about when it suit they , but journalist can face legal action for point that out . as have be mention , a Kazakh mining company bring a case against another journalist , Tom Burgis , over the content of a book that he publish about illegally gain money in the global economy . thankfully , that attempt to silence a journalist fail . I have raise the issue surround " Putin ' s People " before in this Chamber , alongside many colleague from across the House , include my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) , whose work on this issue I commend . the point of these lawsuit be to threaten the defendant with colossal legal cost — we be talk about amount that no normal person can afford — and harass and intimidate they into capitulate . " Putin ' s People " author Catherine Belton and her publisher be leave with a staggering £ 1 . 5 million legal bill follow the case bring against they . today ' s Bill present we with the opportunity to far prevent such attempt silencing of author and journalist by russian billionaire , or any other bad - faith actor . it would put in place new rule , so that claim deem to be slapp could be dismiss and defendant could be protect from pay the claimant ' s legal cost , unless that be justify . the Government have be strong in their condemnation of slapp , and I be proud to see the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 recently receive Royal Assent . that Act allow judge to throw out slapp relate to economic crime , which be a good first step : at least 70 % of the slapp case identify by the Foreign Policy Centre in 2022 be connect to financial crime and corruption . however , we can not and must not stop there , so I welcome the fact that the Government be support the Bill . we need to prevent all form of slapp once and for all , and this Bill be the mechanism for do that . the urgency of this issue can not be overstate . the coalition against slapp in Europe find that 820 slapp take place in Europe in 2023 , compare with 570 in 2022 — a 44 % increase . the United Kingdom be name a slapp hotbe , and the forum of choice for would - be slapp initiator . a Birmingham Law School professor have say that the high cost of defamation litigation and the ability of foreign claimant to resolve dispute in the UK have make this country an ideal location for slapp . other legislature have already take action . several US state have introduce similar law , and the European Parliament be expect to approve similar anti - slapp directive next week . as a result , if we do not pass this Bill today , Britain risk be leave behind in an area in which we should be proudly lead . as more place prohibit slapp , the chance that more case will be bring in the UK increase far . we must be clear that the only purpose of slapp be to silence critic ; they have no legal merit . we must act to protect this country ' s international reputation for uphold the rule of law , and our hard - fought freedom of speech , justice and the press . we must ensure that journalist and publisher can publish information , back by source and fact , concern any individual , no matter the size of their bank account . we in this country be proud of the leadership we have show follow the bloody russian invasion of Ukraine , and pass this Bill would be a small but important way of contribute to that leadership . I again thank the hon . member for Caerphilly for bring this Bill to the Chamber , and I look forward to support its passage through the House . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) for his work in bring this Bill to the House , and I thank campaigner for what they be do to prevent the misuse of litigation to suppress freedom of speech . democratic and press freedom be fundamental to our right and to challenge corruption and the abuse of power . when whistleblower speak out and journalist and a free press report the truth , society be well for it . just this week , Julian Assange ' s extradition appeal close at the Royal Courts of Justice . it be concern to hear that he be unwell and unable to appear in court . I be conscious that the proceeding be ongoing , but I want to say that human right be central to what be happen in his case . the issue be not just how he have be treat , simply for tell the truth ; if extradite , he could be at risk of treatment amounting to torture , and other form of ill - treatment and punishment , include the death penalty . Julian Assange ' s case have profound consequence for press freedom and democracy around the world . we can not say that we stand for press freedom if that freedom exist only if it do not challenge certain power , or go beyond what they want . as my hon . Friend say , our freedom be undermine when the rich and powerful use the threat of costly legal action to suppress public criticism . that be why , last year , many of we welcome amendment to the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 that give UK judge new power to dismiss lawsuit that attempt to silence those speak out about economic crime . however , give the limited scope of the Act and certain shortcoming in its text , those amendment fall short of provide meaningful protection against slapp . there be inequality under the legislation for those subject to slapp that do not relate to economic crime and corruption . we know that powerful man use their power and the law to silence woman . the purpose of such proceeding , often describe as gagging order , be to silence , intimidate , discredit and further disempower survivor . some campaigner call it gendere censorship . it happen in the UK , but it be also a global phenomenon . although I welcome the ambition of the Bill , I believe there may be scope for further amendment about the definition of a slapp , so that domestic abuse be fully cover , particularly in the understanding of " public interest " . I say that because we all know of a series of libel case in which wealthy man have seek to protect their reputation when woman accuse they of abuse . current legislation put survivor at a disadvantage . for example , under the Defamation Act 2013 , the defendant in libel case can argue a public interest defence , but that be not available to survivor . I appeal to the Government to look at that carefully , and at how the Bill can be extend beyond the civil court to the family court . in January 2022 , I participate in a Backbench Business debate on the use of lawfare and strategic litigation against public participation by those seek to suppress public debate , bully people into submission and conceal vital information that be in the public interest . I describe my experience of lawfare be use against I . the House will be aware that I be completely clear and vindicate in Snaresbrook Crown court after what I and many other in my constituency and around the UK view to have be vexatious litigation , pursue with the purpose of shut down my public participation as a democratically elect socialist Member of Parliament and a survivor of domestic abuse . the use of lawfare by abuser to pursue their current or ex - partner be come to light more and more . I be aware that the occurrence of civil litigation case of this nature have drastically increase , particularly follow the widely publicise Amber Heard versus Johnny Depp case in the US . the most common proceeding we see bring be by man accuse of sexual misconduct and / or domestic violence launch vexatious case in relation to defamation , libel , the misuse of private information , harassment and press injunction . the UN special rapporteur on freedom of expression , Irene Khan , write in a dedicated report on gender censorship in 2021 , say : " in a perverse twist in the # MeToo age , woman who publicly denounce allege perpetrator of sexual violence online be increasingly subject to defamation suit or charge with criminal libel or the false reporting of crime . weaponise the justice system to silence woman feed impunity while also undermine free speech . " in addition , barrister Jennifer Robinson and Dr Yoshida make the argument in their book that the current situation strike an unfair balance between his right to reputation and her right to freedom of speech . what be miss in the legislation in the UK as it stand be a recognition of the importance of her additional right : her right to live a life free from gender - base violence and her right to equality . the practice of abuser weaponise civil litigation against survivor be a continuation of abuse , as well as additional trauma . I often find myself ask , " if we can not speak about violence against woman and girl , how can we even tackle it ? " by their nature , these case misuse the court and be bring against survivor to silence they and re - victimise they emotionally and financially . I urge the Government to look at the situation in the family court , as well as the civil court . no one should suffer domestic abuse , and anyone in such a situation should be support in speak out . it be a matter of public good and public interest . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) . may I start by congratulate the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) ? he have bring forward an excellent private Member ' s Bill , and this be entirely what we should be do with Friday sitting . I love Friday sitting ; I have out myself as a geek on multiple occasion . for I , this be what the job be about — come here and talk at length about stuff that be important to people . I also out myself as a lawyer and wave my LLB about . I be passionate about our legal system and believe keenly in it . it be the jewel in the crown of our state . it be par excellence and second to none . it deeply grieve I when something so important be pervert for the narrow interest of a small cadre of people who have rightly deduce that a technical flaw be available to they , and they have enough money to exploit it . the system should not be exploitable purely because someone have the financial resource to do it . we should not be able to purchase justice in this country — but people do that . I will speak to two main issue only that I have deduce from read this private Member ' s Bill — which I will support fully , I hasten to add . the first be a matter for when the Bill reach Committee , and that be how we address the serious problem of forum shopping . this country have a particularly robust approach to defamation legislation . imagine that I publish a book like " Putin ' s People " , for example : it could be the case that it be publish in 18 different country but that I only get sue in this one , because this country be the one that be most technically adept at allow somebody to get money out of I and keep I quiet . that will then prevent I from be able to publish that book in other place ; effectively , that process in one country will gag I in other country . I think we can do something in that space . the hon . Gentleman have put together an excellent bill . it be one for the pinstripe - suited — I be actually not wear a pinstripe suit today — geeky bod to get into . we will have to drill down into the Bill to ensure that it be as robust as possible , but I be happy with its direction . my second point be about address what the Bill be really about . it be about not technical amendment to the legal system — as much as I love those — but freedom of speech . freedom of speech be one of the most fundamental right in every democracy . the United States constitution start with : " Congress shall make no law respect an establishment of religion , or prohibit … the freedom of speech , or of the press ; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble , and to petition the Government for a redress of grievance . " that be an incredibly powerful and potent set of clause that prevent the situation we be discuss from happen in the United States . we have to rely on article 10 of the european convention on human right ; and I will say now , for the avoidance of doubt , that you will get I through a wood chipper fast than you will get I through a Division Lobby to take we out of that . article 10 be incredibly important , but it be not adequate for the task ahead of we , and that be why this be such an important Bill . as a Member of Parliament , I want to be able to go out and talk about what be correct , right , proper and decent , without have to rely on the fact that I have immunity in this Chamber , but I can not do that without fear or favour at the moment , because this lawfare system — I think the hon . member for Poplar and Limehouse coin that term , which be an effective way of describe what be go — be basically be use to destroy one of the fundamental principle of our democracy . the hon . member for Caerphilly be entirely right and proper to bring we this Bill . I will enthusiastically support it ; if he need people for Bill Committee when it get to that stage , I will be there — and I be afraid I will be talk a lot . it be a pleasure to take part in the debate , particularly with you in the Chair , Mr Speaker . this be essentially a debate about free speech , which I know be of great concern to you not only in this Chamber but outside it . it be also of particular concern to my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) , and I congratulate he on bring the Bill forward . he be quite busy with his other hat on , as the shadow Minister for the Middle East , so it be good that he have time to be here on a Friday to promote his Bill . I hope he have the Government ' s support . I would say that this become a live issue for the House when the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) hold his January 2022 debate on lawfare and the UK court system ; as with everything American , the term " slapp " have take over the language here , but lawfare be effectively the same thing . on that day , which be really the issue ' s first run - out , I reply for the Opposition . there be many strong contribution , and the debate put the issue on the map , include on the Government ' s map . let we give the Government a little bit of credit , although not too much ; there have be some progress . we have hear about what be in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 , deal with the issue of slapp , but in a particular way and for a particular type of offence — that is , around economic crime — and the anti - SLAPPs taskforce also meet , but it be somewhat disappointing that the Government have not bring forward their own comprehensive legislation on the issue . I hope they will use the agency of my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly to get something on the book in the time available in this Parliament . nevertheless , we have not do the entire job . that be no criticism at all of my hon . friend , and I do not know whether that be an invitation for I to be on the Bill Committee as well . I will deal with three point that need slightly further attention . the first , which my hon . Friend mention , be the issue of slapp take place in the dark — pre - issue , as it be . there have be some attention by the Solicitors Regulation Authority to that in issue guideline , but there be still quite a strong feeling that many slapp be effective long before get to the courtroom because of the intimidation — which we should not underemphasise — place on individual . they may be author or journalist , but they may just be individual member of the public . the intimidation may even be of corporation , and yet they can not take the risk because they be up against people with not just deep , but bottomless , pocket . we hear about the £ 1 . 5 million cost for Catherine Belton in relation to " Putin ' s People " . that be pocket money for Abramovich , but for a publisher — let alone a journalist — it be a significant sum of money . a more comprehensive view of how SLAPPs act be important in relation to resource . I do not want to disagree with my hon . friend , but we need to look at the point that the Anti - SLAPP Coalition and the NUJ have raise — and the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) — about a subjective or objective test . that be not easy . obviously , there be subjective as well as objective test throughout the legal system . nevertheless , there be a real fear that the need for a defendant to show subjective element will be a path for the claimant to tie proceeding up in knot , complicate thing and drag they out . I do not know what the solution be , but we should at least explore that and listen to the expert organisation , particularly the National Union of Journalists and the Anti - SLAPP Coalition , which be urge we to take that course . do the hon . member think that a minor amendment could be introduce to add an objective test base on observable feature of abuse , to help prevent litigation from be misuse to suppress freedom of speech ? it sound like the hon . Member want to be on the Bill Committee and be draft his amendment in his head . I have never know a private Member ' s Bill Committee to be so popular . I be not a legal draftsman and I do not know the answer to his question , but we need to bottom out this issue , because it seem to be attract the most attention . other issue have be raise about overlap with the Defamation Act , and cost . there be provision on cost in the Bill , but it be about whether they be drive down cost as far as they can , and about public interest . a number of area could be far explore , even in this short Bill . cost be a vital but often neglect part of the legal process . this be a hobby - horse of mine . we have just discuss the Media Bill in the House , and the repeal of section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 , which in effect take Leveson part 1 out of the equation with regard to have a level playing field for victim of press abuse — if I can put it that way . on slapp , the Government appear to support legislation such as this to prevent cost be use as a weapon to prevent people get their just desert and their day in court , but there be a different situation when it come to the medium itself — I can not for the life of I see the difference . of course , Leveson cut both way ; Leveson also provide a formula for protect small publisher against exactly the sort of people who take part in slapp — indeed , he could have use the word " slapp " in his report . it also protect the innocent victim of press abuse because the press magnate — not journalist and small publisher but major publisher — also have bottomless pocket . in his response or during the passage of the Bill , could the Minister think again , at the very least , about how the Government will approach the issue of small publisher and journalist be sue in order to protect the so - call privacy — often the nefarious activity — of very wealthy individual and corporation . this can affect anyone , include journalist like Tom Burgis , who win his case . the experience do not discourage he , because next week I be hope to go to the launch of his late book , " Cuckooland : where the Rich own the truth " . let I give he a little plug — it will soon be available from all good bookshop . it take huge courage for someone to risk everything simply in the course of prosecute their employment , when there be the risk of bankruptcy or be drop by their publisher — although that be not at risk , I have to say , in Tom ' s case . we hear about the case of Charlotte Leslie , a former colleague of ours , who be effectively persecute through the court . we be lucky ; we have the protection of privilege here . however , when we step outside this place , we can become a victim in that way , just like anybody else who be , with good intent , simply try to tell the truth . this even affect organisation such as the Serious Fraud Office , which be still be prosecute through the court by the Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation . the Serious Fraud Office launch the action in good faith , and there be what I would call retaliatory slapp action . although the original action by the SFO have be discontinue , the slapp continue . it really do look like a topsy - turvy world when organisation that we should rely on to regulate society — in which I include investigative journalist , Members of Parliament , and certainly criminal investigation organisation — themselves become the victim of those they wish to call out . that be why we urgently need a much more comprehensive approach to slapp , and that be why I fully welcome the Bill and will support it today . however , I think we can do more work on this . in respond today , I hope the Government will express their strong support and their desire to go far . I call the shadow Minister . this could be quite a big day for the Welsh , with my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) introduce his Bill and my hon . friend the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) introduce her later , I hope . I also hope to move from the Front Bench to the Back Benches to introduce my own Bill later in proceeding , so that be three Welsh Bills this morning . of course , on the Front Bench we also have my right hon . friend the Member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) from the Opposition Whips Office , so it really be a big morning for the Welsh . my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly and I come into the House together in 2001 — it be hard to think that that be nearly 23 year ago . I congratulate he on his first outing in all that time promote a private member ' s Bill this morning . I be glad he be successful in the ballot , as it be an important Bill . for year , strategic lawsuit have enable the wealthy and powerful to weaponise their wealth to sue critic into silence . as hon . member have say , it be important that this House vote to put an end to these tactic that gag the press and intimidate people ask legitimate question by threaten they with enormous legal cost — lawfare , as it have be refer to today . I thank those who have participate in the debate : my hon . friend the Members for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) and for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , and the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) and for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) . they all speak extremely effectively in support of the Bill , but also raise appropriate question about how it should proceed in Committee . I be pleased that the Bill have cross - party support , and I understand the Government be in full support of it . I can confirm that it have the support of those on the Labour Front Bench as well . it be a step forward that the scope of protection provide for in the Bill be not limited , as be currently the case , to economic crime . slapp , often masquerade as defamation or privacy claim , be not really about seek justice , but about impose silence — exploit the financial and emotional strain of proceeding to discourage individual from exercise their right to speak on matter of public interest . labour have long recognise the danger pose by slapp to our democratic value . we have already commit to introduce legislation to halt the ability of russian oligarch and the super - wealthy such as Roman Abramovich , who have already be mention today , to use their wealth as a weapon against those who dare to scrutinise their action . the background to my hon . friend ' s Bill be root in a disturbing trend of legal harassment . from aggressive pre - action letter to the targeting of vulnerable financial defendant , slapp undermine the foundation of accountability and freedom of speech . the enormous legal cost threaten by slapp serve not justice , but the suppression of truth . the Bill be not merely a response to a grow trend of legal harassment , but a declaration of our value as a society that cherish free speech and the rule of law . it broaden the scope beyond economic crime , offer protection across all public interest discourse to ensure that no avenue be leave for the misuse of our legal system to suppress legitimate scrutiny and accountability . the legal reform propose by my hon . friend in his Bill be both necessary and timely . they reflect a deep understanding of the challenge pose by slapp , as outline in the evidence session of several parliamentary Committees . by provide mechanism for early dismissal and cost protection , and extend protection to all court and tribunal , we be fortify our defence against the abuse of legislation . as we consider the provision of the Bill , let we remember the individual — and , indeed , institution — who have be unjustly target by slapp . their struggle underscore the imperative for this legislation . I acknowledge the effort of campaigner , include the UK Anti - SLAPP Coalition , for their tireless work in bring this issue to light . we must ensure that our legal system serve justice , not the interest of those who seek to wield it as a tool of oppression . I acknowledge the issue that have be raise about the Bill . I be sure they will be rehearse in Committee when we will have a deep discussion on they . in addition to the concern that have be raise , we need to make sure — although I be sure it do not — that the Bill do not prevent ordinary people who wish to restrain the publication of libel and intrusion by wealthy publication from be able to do so in law . as my father always use to say , in life we should help the weak against the strong . I know that that be my hon . friend ' s intention in bring forward his Bill . I urge all hon . member to support the Bill . in do so , we be take a stand against the tactic that gag our press , intimidate our citizen and erode our democracy . it be a step forward in an ongoing effort to protect freedom of expression and to ensure that those who seek to report on wrongdoing can do so without fear of retribution . in the fight for justice and accountability , there be no room for silence . the Bill can help to end the scourge of slapp and reaffirm our dedication to the principle of democracy and freedom . I congratulate the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) on bring forward the Bill , and the numerous campaigner who have be press this issue for many year . as we have hear , slapp be an abuse of our court and our law by corrupt individual who seek to stifle free speech and a free press — two of the linchpin of our democracy . I can not talk about the specific case that the hon . member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) raise , but I can reassure she that the Bill widen the scope beyond what be in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 and that it now talk about all kind of behaviour . I be more than happy to discuss the specific issue with the hon . member for Caerphilly , as it be his Bill , to see what we can do to ensure that we either reassure or accommodate she on the specific issue she wish to see cover . this issue become increasingly press when the russian oligarch and ally of Putin use this process for their own end . alongside they , we see behaviour by multinational corporation or disreputable landlord to use and abuse our process . slapp must always be take seriously and tackle swiftly . in this House , we have the ability and the privilege to ensure that such abuse be address head - on . this House stand for free speech and for hold the powerful to account , and for always seek to ensure that the good interest of the public , in the wide sense , be be serve by the law . slapp - style litigation be an abuse of power design to inhibit public interest investigation and reporting . the harm that slapp cause be not only that they stifle public comment by force its removal or edit it ; they also discourage journalist , academic and campaigner from investigate issue in the first place , leave matter of public interest undiscovere and the british public in the dark . in this way , the effect of slapp be far more pernicious . we can not sit by and allow our medium to feel that some people and organisation can not be subject to scrutiny just because they have unlimited financial firepower to mobilise aggressive legal tactic . to quote Andrew Galizia , whose mother Daphne , a maltese investigative journalist , be murder in 2017 : " the aim of these lawsuit be to deprive the target of time and resource , and to deter other from take up the same story . " his mother be subject to 43 lawsuit at the time of her death . regardless of whether a claim be aim at an author , an academic , a journalist or a private individual , this abuse of the law to muzzle the free press must not go unchecked . we will not allow our justice system to be abuse . in the Government ' s response to our original call for evidence , we say that although there be power enable court to strike out case as an abuse of process , these power need to be strengthen to counteract the very sophisticated and aggressive action bring by slapp claimant . the House will be aware of some high - profile case that have shine a light on slapp — case such as that bring against the british journalist Tom Burgis , whom member have already mention , who be sue for libel in the High Court by ENRC , an oligarch - own mining company , follow his publication of " Kleptopia : how dirty Money be conquer the World " . there be multiple claim issue against Tom Burgis by ENRC , target he as an individual author rather than his publisher . these claim concern his tweet , podcast and article that mention his book . the case be dismiss early on . the statement complain about be find not to be defamatory and Mr Burgis be vindicate , but how many more case do not reach our courtroom due to the intimidatory tactic and cost run up by aggressive claimant before proceeding be even initiate ? I think that be the point make by the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , and I will address a couple of his point at this juncture . we have engage with the SRA and will continue to do so . as the hon . Member mention , warning notice have already be issue . the fine for misbehaviour by solicitor firm have be increase , and pre - action behaviour be a legitimate cause of concern . the Government will continue to engage with the regulator to see how that can be far address . as so many people have volunteer to be on the Public Bill Committee , I be sure that , with the indulgence of the hon . member for Caerphilly , we can look at the issue in more depth . there be evidence that the number of slapp be increase year on year . there be 11 case in the UK in 2020 , 25 in 2021 and 29 in 2022 . such worrying and abusive conduct , whereby those with deep pocket attempt to financially bully dissent voice , be unacceptable in our democracy . the court must not be a pawn in these underhand attempt to cover up corruption and wrongdoing . slapp be a modern - day struggle between David and Goliath : we have individual journalist , academic and author up against extremely wealthy individual and corporate with unlimited resource on their side . we can not let this type of intimidation and harassment stand . it be right that wrongdoing and dubious deal be lay bare for the world to see , and those who expose such behaviour should not be afraid of the repercussion of do so . that be why the Government listen and introduce the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 to tackle slapp claim connect to financial misdeed . that Act mean we be the first country in the world to legislate against slapp at a national level . although we can argue over whether it be overdue , we be certainly the first to do it , and we ought to take pride in the fact that this legislature act fast than most . the Act give cover to only a small part of the slapp regime , and it target only one part of economic crime , which be why this private Member ' s Bill seek to address the gap . it will make sure that the definition of slapp be more comprehensive . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) raise the issue of behaviour in the test of objectivity and subjectivity . the issue of subjectivity be not unusual , and the court will consider all evidence before it come to an assessment , include an explanation from the claimant as to why their claim be reasonable . the court be , of course , well verse in take that information into account . the test of subjectivity or intent be not unusual , and it be well establish in our court system . clause 2 give specific example of slapp - type behaviour . I believe there be a careful balance between the standard practice of intent and tighten thing up to give objective guidance to the judiciary on what constitute slapp - type behaviour . the Bill follow the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act in establish a cost - protection regime that limit legal cost in slapp claim , protect defendant from the obscene cost run up by claimant to increase the intimidatory effect of their claim . this will also help to address the glare inequality of arm between the party in these case . of course , one of the big step forward be the ability to secure early dismissal so that these case do not rumble on and rack up fee , particularly for defendant . the ability to strike out case at an early stage be a big part of the cost - protection armoury . our reform also have to ensure a balance between defend people from slapp - type behaviour and protect access to justice , which be a fundamental part of our system . it be for the court and the judiciary to determine whether a case be a slapp and whether it have merit . we have act to remove the level of fear and risk that these case can engender . the Government be glad to welcome and support this Bill , which build on the important progress already make . I thank the hon . member for Caerphilly for seize the moment to introduce a private member ' s Bill . this be an opportune time to build on what we have do so far , and to make it more comprehensive . as he outline so well , the Government have find that the scourge of slapp be unfortunately spread into new area , such as sexual harassment , clinical negligence and landlord and tenant dispute . the purpose of this Bill be to tackle such behaviour . if the behaviour look like a duck and quack like a duck , it ' s a slapp . [ interruption . ] sorry , that be rather clumsy English . I be sure Hansard will correct I . this Bill be a major step forward , and it be time to legislate . the majority of slapp be think to be link to economic crime , but it be time to move on and make the definition more all - encompass . I will cover a couple of point raise by hon . member . my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) raise the Belton case again . information from all slapp case form part of the call for evidence , so I can reassure she that the activity in the Belton case will be part of the foundation of this Bill . my hon . friend the Member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) speak about forum shopping , which I will look at , and I be sure he will raise it in his customary fashion in Committee . I be sure the hon . member for Caerphilly will urge he not to talk quite as much as he promise . it be a credit to this Parliament that member of all party have rally to support action on this issue and to introduce new law to help ensure the integrity of our justice system and to support the freedom and protection that we all cherish . in some way , a private Member ' s Bill be the most fitting way to complete what the Government start . I have speak about the work we be do with the Solicitors Regulation Authority to ensure that it tighten up its regulation , and we will continue to engage with it . I pay tribute to the UK Anti - SLAPP Coalition , which have be an enormously effective stakeholder . the coalition have support the Government ' s effort , and I thank it for its consistent engagement and clarity on this issue . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport launch the SLAPPs taskforce last September , with a remit to develop non - legislative recommendation to tackle slapp . good progress be be make on a number of front , and I thank the Secretary of State for her tireless commitment . internationally , the UK be represent as an expert member of the Council of Europe ' s Working Group on slapp , which conclude its mandate in December 2023 . the draft recommendation which be produce over the course of two year will now make its way to the Committee of Ministers , and we trust that it will be eventually adopt in all 46 member state . the Government act last October by legislate against slapp , because we must not allow our court to be abuse and our legal system manipulate . we be therefore pleased to support the Bill , and will continue to ensure that those who speak out against corruption , who hold the powerful to account and who guard our freedom through their voice be protect . let I again thank the hon . member for Caerphilly for promote the Bill . I also thank the official at the Ministry of Justice for provide all the necessary support as we move forward . with the leave of the House , I be very pleased that we have have such a good debate . it be laudable that so many member in all part of the House have take the time to attend and to make such excellent contribution . I also pay tribute to people and organisation outside the House , notably the UK Anti - SLAPP Coalition . it have work tirelessly on this issue for some time , and its input have be of tremendous value . I thank the Ministry of Justice and its civil servant for their assistance , its briefing and its constructive engagement at all time . there be a number of issue that many member consider particularly important , such as the so - call issue of subjective test . I be inclined to agree with what the Minister say in sum up the debate , but I accept that there be room for further discussion , and we will be able to deal with it in some detail if the Bill go into Committee . I agree that cost be a fundamental issue . a number of member have cite example in which it be enormously important in ensure that justice be do and be see to be do . in her evidence to a Select Committee , the author Catherine Belton say that in London a single letter cost as much as £ 9 , 000 , address concern that have be express by a number of people . if one letter cost £ 9 , 000 , we all know how much an entire case could cost . surely that can not be right in a democratic country which pride itself on freedom of speech , in which freedom of speech be pivotal , and which allow justice for all . I hope very much that the Bill will continue its progress through the House and will reach the statute book , because I think that that would be a huge step forward for parliamentary democracy . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Space Industry ( Indemnities ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be delighted to be here to introduce a Bill that will help to support our thriving and dynamic space sector . it will amend section 12 ( 2 ) of the Space Industry Act 2018 to make clear in legislation that all spaceflight operator licence must specify a limit on the amount of the licensee ' s liability under section 36 of the Act . the 2018 Act enable commercial spaceflight activity , which include launch a spacecraft and operate a satellite in orbit , for example , and other activity such as the operation of a spaceport and management of a range , to be carry out under a licence in the United Kingdom . the 2018 Act set out the broad licensing and regulatory framework for carry out such activity and be underpin with more detailed provision in the Space Industry Regulations 2021 . United Nations space treaty place obligation and responsibility on state for activity in outer space . in particular , UN space treaty make state liable for damage or injury cause by their space activity or those of their national . section 36 of the 2018 Act require person carry out spaceflight activity to indemnify the UK Government and a number of name public body against any claim bring against the Government or body in respect of damage or loss arise out of , or in connection with , those spaceflight activity . however , that be subject to any limit on the amount of an operator ' s liability specify in their licence , except in prescribed circumstance , such as where the operator be liable in respect of gross negligence or wilful misconduct . the 2018 Act currently provide power for the regulator to specify a limit on the amount of the operator ' s liability in their licence , but the Act do not make it mandatory . currently , section 12 ( 2 ) of that Act provide that an operator licence may specify a limit on the amount of a licensee ' s liability to indemnify under section 36 , but this contrast with regulation 220 of the Space Industry Regulations 2021 make under power in section 34 ( 5 ) of the 2018 Act , whereby an operator licence must specify a limit on the amount of a licensee ' s liability for damage or injury to third party . it also contrast with section 5 ( 3 ) of the Outer Space Act 1986 , which regulate UK national , scottish firm and body incorporate under the law of any part of the UK that carry on space activity from outside the UK . these require a licence to specify the maximum amount of the licensee ' s liability to indemnify the Government under section 10 of that Act . through response to the Government ' s consultation on spaceflight liability , insurance and charging , the Government be aware that operator hold unlimited liability could be a barrier to conduct spaceflight activity from the UK . the same consultation confirm that other launch nation limit liability or provide a state guarantee for spaceflight activity conduct from their territory . current Government policy and guidance be that all spaceflight operator licence will contain limit on the amount of the operator ' s liability and the amount of insurance that they be require to hold , so that no operator will face unlimited liability . however , industry operator continue to lobby for legislative certainty and have raise that , for spaceflight activity in the UK to be commercially viable , there need to be a clear mandatory cap on the amount of liability to indemnify under section 36 of the 2018 Act . the Bill will provide legislative certainty by amend " may " to " must " in section 12 ( 2 ) of the 2018 Act , so that an operator licence must specify a limit on the amount of the operator ' s liability under section 36 . the Bill make a small amendment to section 36 ( 3 ) of the 2018 Act . the propose amendment to the 2018 Act will meet a key ask of the space sector on regulatory improvement to provide assurance to investor that limit on the amount of an operator ' s liability will be include in licence . the Bill will also address a recommendation make by the Taskforce on Innovation , Growth and Regulatory Reform . there have be parliamentary scrutiny . the Science and Technology Committee raise the question of operator certainty on liability cap in its second report of the 2022 - 23 Session , " UK space strategy and UK satellite infrastructure " , publish on 4 November 2022 . the Taskforce on Innovation , Growth and Regulatory Reform consider current requirement and view they " as discourage investment and make the UK uncompetitive " . recommendation 15 . 1 be to " amend the Space Industry Act 2018 to cap liability and indemnity requirement for licence applicant to launch and operate satellite from the UK . " there have also be consultation . on 13 October 2020 , the Government publish a consultation on spaceflight liability insurance and charge . respondent raise concern about the wording of section 12 ( 2 ) of the Space Industry Act 2018 , under which a licence only " may " contain a limit of liability with respect to claim make under section 36 of the Act . on 5 March 2021 , in response to the consultation , the Government say in their regulation and guidance on spaceport and spaceflight activity : " if another suitable piece of primary legislation be bring forward , the Government may seek to amend the wording in section 12 ( 2 ) from ' may ' to ' must ' . " we all benefit from the service provide by satellite . we might pay for our morning coffee use contactless payment , Google Pay or even cash withdraw from an ATM ; none of that would be possible without satellite . satellite provide precise reference for navigation , communication to remote place , and picture of our change planet , not to mention the support they provide to the defence and security of the United Kingdom . satellite datum , space technology and space application be use to enhance our everyday life . the space sector be hugely valuable to the UK ' s economy . it be worth over £ 17 . 5 billion and directly employ more than 48 , 000 people . it support over 126 , 000 job across the supply chain . the UK be already one of the world ' s strong centre of advanced satellite manufacturing . thank to this Government , it be now possible to launch satellite from UK spaceport , rather than rely solely on overseas spaceport to launch UK - build satellite into orbit . last year , an historical first launch from UK soil be make by Virgin Orbit at Spaceport Cornwall . in December , SaxaVord spaceport in the Shetland Islands become the UK ' s first license vertical launch spaceport , with more to follow . new launch company such as Orbex and Skyrora have build factory in Scotland , create hundred of new job , ready to take advantage of the new opportunity that the Government have create . in preparation for this debate , I have be ask question by several member , and I will address those now . I have be ask what effect the Bill will have on public expenditure , and I can assure the House that it will not entail any additional expenditure , as the amendment be in line with Government policy . I have be ask whether there be any transitional arrangement . there be not . clause 2 ( 3 ) provide that the Bill will come into force two month to the day on which it be pass . transitional arrangement be not require because no licence have be grant that do not have a limit on liability specify in they , by virtue of the Government ' s policy on limit liability . I have be ask whether I have ensure compatibility with the european convention on human right . as this be a private Member ' s Bill , no statement of compatibility be require . however , as record in the explanatory note , the Department for Transport consider that the provision of the Bill be compatible with the convention . I have be ask whether it be compatible with environmental law . again , as it be a private Member ' s Bill , no statement under section 20 of the Environment Act 2021 be require , but as the explanatory note say , the Department for Transport be of the view that the Bill do not contain provision that , if enact , would be environmental law for the purpose of section 20 . this be a narrowly focused Bill address what the space sector have ask for . I hope that no further amendment will be table , as it would be a shame to be unable to progress or deliver this key ask from our increasingly important space industry because of amendment or addition . let I give a final summary of the purpose of the Bill , why I think it be important and how it will benefit our space industry . before a company can operate a satellite in orbit or carry out a launch mission from the UK , it must first obtain a spaceflight operator licence under the Space Industry Act 2018 . the licence process ensure that spaceflight activity be undertake safely , securely and in accordance with the UK ' s international obligation . under United Nations space treaty , the state be ultimately liable for any damage or injury that may be cause by its space activity , even when undertake by commercial space operator . the Space Industry Act contain provision to help mitigate potential cost to UK taxpayer arise from UK commercial spaceflight activity . that include requirement for operator to hold insurance and , under section 36 , to indemnify the UK Government and other name public body against any claim bring against the government or body in respect of damage or loss . it be recognise , however , that unlimited liability on commercial space activity would be a barrier to their operating in the United Kingdom . other space nation , such as France and the United States of America , limit liability , or provide a state guarantee for the launch activity that take place from their territory . the Space Industry Act contain power to specify in a spaceflight operator ' s licence a limit on the amount of an operator ' s liability , in order to indemnify the Government and other public body . government policy be that the regulator should use those power to specify a limit on the amount of the operator ' s liability in the licence , so that no operator will face unlimited liability . it be essentially a form of risk sharing between the commercial operator and Government . this policy be set out in guidance , and I understand that all spaceflight operator licence issue under the Space Industry Act to date contain a limit on the amount of an operator ' s liability . however , the industry have make it very clear , in response to consultation and in other forum , that it would welcome legal certainty that it will not face unlimited liability when launch or operate a satellite from the UK . set that clear requirement in law would provide UK industry and those look to invest in the UK with great certainty , and would carry more force than reliance on policy statement and guidance . this Bill will provide that legal certainty by amend section 12 ( 2 ) of the Space Industry Act , so that spaceflight operator licence must specify a limit on the amount of the operator ' s liability under section 36 of that Act . as such , the Bill will provide a vital further boost to our burgeon UK space industry . I be particularly mindful of the benefit it will bring to grow and innovative company such as Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd on the Surrey research park , many of whose past and current employee live in my constituency of Woking . our UK space industry be thrive , but this measure be vital to secure an equally exciting and dynamic future . it be company such as Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd — just outside my constituency , and many of whose employee live in my constituency — that will benefit . other firm , large , medium and small , will grow in the UK and come to the UK if this measure be pass . to ensure that exciting and dynamic future , I commend the Bill to the House . I rise to speak in support of the Bill in my capacity as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for space . before I get to the thrust of my speech , I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my interest be both financial and non - financial , and I have a number of outside role that be relevant to the UK space industry . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) on introduce a Bill that appear extraordinarily simple but , as we hear from his well thought through and well deliver speech , would actually have a profound impact on a lot of technical area in the space sector . it show a great deal of skill on his part that he can do something quite so complex in such a straightforward , intelligent and elegant way . as my hon . Friend say , the Bill seek to enhance the UK ' s position in the space industry by make change to liability for spaceflight risk . that be a wholly pragmatic and welcome change . the Bill ' s purpose be to make the UK an even well place to operate space business from , and it follow on from the space strategy publish two or three year ago . the Bill seek to resolve some technical anomaly in the insurance sector in a goo and sensible way . importantly , it clarify aspect of risk in a way that should provide comfort to those financial wizard support our superb space innovator , many of whom I have meet . I be delighted to say that many come to Parliament for one of the regular space sector showcase run by the all - party parliamentary group for space . the next one , which will be in the Attlee Suite on the morning of 19 March , be on the sustainability and future of space activity . all member and Members ' staff be welcome to come along to hear about that fascinating area . the space sector be incredibly important . People do not realise that every time they use a cashpoint , their transaction be confirm through position , navigation and timing that come from navigation satellite pass overhead . we can do an amazing number of thing . we can analyse a country ' s economic activity through heat sensor from Earth observation satellite , which can tell we whether a city , a port or a railway station be busy . we can look at any number of different thing . we can predict the use of crop fertiliser , plant and distressed crop through Earth observation satellite . I be delighted to say that I chair the advisory board of the Space Energy Initiative — this be a non - financial interest — and we be look at whether beam energy from space can be part of the future of a secure and safe planet . what we can do be absolutely extraordinary . in 1969 , we first land a man on the moon , and we be do an enormous number of brilliant thing . I be delighted to say that a number of UK space industry be now look to get involve in the Artemis programme , whereby NASA be look to take astronaut back to the moon , possibly as early as next year . this be a very exciting time for space in a wide range of area . we can go wrong by focus specifically on the space sector itself ; I would suggest that there be an increase benefit to the UK that go far than the space industry . the space industry be important for a number of reason , one of which be that , because of the high value of this type of activity , it address exactly what Adam Smith propose in his 1776 book " the Wealth of Nations " : nation should try to create great wealth by have great productivity . this country have have a productivity conundrum for a number of year , and concentrate on the space sector could increase our productivity and therefore benefit the whole of the country . the Bill also talk about the service sector — the insurance industry . member will be aware that before come to Parliament , I be in financial service — investment banking and small investment fund management — so when I look at the opportunity present by something such as the space sector , I tend to look at the many UK opportunity , in the context not just of the direct beneficiary but of how the sector help the wide economy . the UK have one of the good — certainly the old — wholesale insurance market , locate in the City of London . it must be the aim of the whole of Government to ensure not just that spaceflight and operation be control from the UK but that all involve in the space industry come to London to seek insurance and other financial service from our financial service expert . I have argue for some time that the UK should do more to align the interest of our space industry with the interest of the UK financial market . I take inspiration from a former Chancellor of the Exchequer . when he be newly appoint Chancellor after the 1997 general election , many year ago , the former Member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath recognise the UK ' s good but small film industry . he choose to make a small intervention in the tax system to incentivise investment into UK film . as a direct result , he help to rebuild the UK film industry into the vibrant and innovative industry that it be today . I suspect that when we look at some great film , a direct thread can be trace : between that intervention by the former right hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath back in the late 1990 and , for example , the success of the " Harry Potter " franchise right here in the UK . Harry Potter be a brilliant export , and be always go to be a great film success , but I be certain that without that intervention , the hero of the Harry Potters may well have cast their spell with american accent . I think we can look to that , dare I say , great former Labour Chancellor , for the huge amount he do for the british film industry . it may be the only time that the House hear I say " great " and " Labour Chancellor " in the same sentence , but he do an important job , and we should recognise that . of course , there be a little bit of abuse of the system by one or two people enjoy it , but notwithstanding that , the intervention have be important . a similar intervention can be make to support not just the space industry but our world - class wholesale financial market . it be important that the City of London do not just think about what it do today and whether it do market well ; it should be completely innovate the whole time to seek opportunity that come in the future . we should not think about any industry only in term of what we can offer it ; we must think about our ambition in any sector with a view to how it can enhance wide service sector . in the case of financial service , investment banker raise capital investment and insurance service secure risk cover for innovator or help investor to find a way to maximise their opportunity in the sector , we should be think how a fiscal intervention might benefit all concerned . after all , our brilliant innovator , research institution , network of catapult accelerator and university , and all the rest of it , already attract a great deal of international business to the UK . that be a very good thing . we also need to appreciate that we need the good space industry financier in the world to come to the UK and locate their expertise right here in the City of London , and the good insurance expert and the good space lawyer . we need to seek to achieve , in the space industry and the wide economy , the UK be the good place to come for everything need to support space ambition . I believe the Government be enthusiastic about this private Member ' s Bill , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for woke for bring it forward . it be a truly innovative Bill . the City of London , as I think I have mention , need to remain relevant . the City of London be an incredible jewel in the crown of this country . it have have its problem , but none the less , it pay through taxation for an awful lot of hospital , police officer and school . a lot of good thing come out of the City of London , but it need to be relevant the whole time for the future . we need to be make sure , as we develop something like the space industry or AI or any of these other industry , that we help the City of London to focus and be a part of that , so that there be a symbiotic relationship between the financial service sector and these other sector that will benefit our economy . I be delighted to support the Bill ; it be fantastic . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) on bring forward this private Member ' s Bill , which I rise in support of . follow my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , I will take we from the City of London , on which he make some brilliant and valid point , to the space sector — we be almost in danger of have some join - up thinking in this place today ! one would not be surprised to see a Cornish MP rise on these Benches when we be speak about space . we have a lot to say in Cornwall about the space sector . Cornwall be in fact at the forefront of the UK ' s develop space economy and be play an increasingly important role in the national space programme to ensure that as many people as possible contribute to and benefit from the economic growth . Cornwall ' s data , space and aerospace strategy ambition include : mitigate and reverse environmental degradation ; restore nature and seek to protect business and community from the impact of climate change , both locally and globally ; work with the Government to grow the UK space economy as a whole ; and , grow the Cornwall and Isles of Scilly economy to deliver job and international investment , while offer an outstanding quality of life for its people . Cornwall and Isles of Scilly local enterprise partnership make space one of its main priority some time ago . if the House will indulge I , I would like to pay tribute to one of the key player , Mark Duddridge , who we lose suddenly last year . Mark use to be chair of the local enterprise partnership . sadly , a matter of hour after I be in a Zoom meeting with he from this place , he tragically and suddenly die . Mark have leave a hole in the industry and business community in Cornwall , and be very fondly remember . new mp look for the people they can trust , with knowledge in all these thing , so that we can gain our own knowledge and learn about they , and Mark be certainly one of those people for I . Mark say of the space industry : " we ' ve back Cornwall ' s spaceport bid from day one because we see the potential for Cornwall to play a vital role in the UK ' s space economy ambition and create high value job . the global space industry could triple in value to more than $ 1 trillion by 2040 and what ' s drive that be climate change , security and telecom . the facility we be help to fund at Spaceport Cornwall be already have a catalytic effect and attract new space company to Cornwall . " one of those be international space logistic company D - Orbit , which will establish a satellite assembly , integration and testing facility at Spaceport Cornwall ' s Centre for Space Technologies , with support from the European Space Agency . Mark play a key role in that , and other be continue his work . he be a talented and passionate advocate for Cornwall , and have leave a large hole . I thank my hon . friend the Member for woke for bring clarity to the industry as a whole . as he have mention , where we have a " may " we will now have a " must " . that be always important so that industry know what it be do . member may not know that Cornwall have more than 150 business involve in the space industry , and 35 local and national partner . in 2023 , 1 , 300 people in Cornwall be employ in the space industry , which be worth about £ 88 million ; by 2030 , we expect more than 3 , 000 people to be employ in it , with a potential value of £ 1 billion . my hon . friend have mention some of the business and service employ by the space industry . let I add to that list the marine protection area that we be deploy not just around UK water but globally , because that be do via satellite . how do we know how bad climate change be in different part of the world ? satellite do that for we . when I be a Cornwall councillor , we have interesting debate about the benefit of the spaceport in Cornwall . some of our environmentalist be concern that we be send huge great jumbo jet off into space and that it would cause a lot of pollution , but my belief — and that of a lot of my constituent — be that the good outweigh the bad give the amount of information that we can now get , and that surely we in Cornwall want to provide the job and infrastructure to allow that information to come back to Earth . so what else be Cornwall do in the space industry ? there be artificial intelligence and professional service — we have space lawyer in Cornwall . this legislation will be of great interest to they and how they can help their client , and they be abreast of it all . Foot Anstey be one such firm provide those service . we recently have drone test over the bay of Falmouth by a company call Open Skies Cornwall . I pay tribute to the Falmouth harbour commissioner , Miles Carden , for spearhead that project . when huge tanker be ashore in the bay of Falmouth , or if in high sea it be too dangerous even for pilot boat , drone can take out medical supply and bit for the boat . that could save life , and could certainly save a lot of money for those company , so they be a great investment . another tech company , farfield , operate at Mylor boat harbour with Mylor Boat Hire . it be test electric eco - launch use a low - cost satellite network rather than wireless system so that check on the battery voltage of a boat ' s electric motor can be do via GPS . check can be do on bilge pump and all sort of other thing on boat . all that be happen as part of the space industry , which be not just about launch rocket into space , and it be vital . my hon . friend the Member for Woking mention the Newquay spaceport . that be 10 year of work . I again pay tribute to Melissa Quinn , who spearhead much of that project . despite what people have say in the press , the Newquay spaceport be a huge success ; everything that Newquay and Cornwall do work perfectly . cosmic Girl run into issue — sadly , the mission be unsuccessful — but Newquay prove that we could have a spaceport in the UK . that be what matter to Cornwall . to reinforce that point , it be a rather peculiar thing about the British that we tend to look at failure as a problem . exactly this type of thing happen with the launch of the SpaceX Starship . the minute it clear the pad , the mission have be entirely successful . when that enormous rocket — big than a Saturn v rocket — go spiral out of control and blow up , the SpaceX team let out a cheer , because they have get it right . we sometimes get it wrong in the UK . as my hon . friend mention , there be a problem with the rocket itself , but the UK get it absolutely bang on the money in every single way . the licensing and everything go perfectly right . the fact that a second - stage fuel filter go wrong have nothing to do with Newquay or the Government . the spaceport be a real success story . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and I will pass on his regard to the good people of Cornwall . he be absolutely right : it be a brilliant project from start to finish . we have engagement locally and nationally , and the local MP , my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) , work with the project from start to finish . let I explain what it mean to the people of Cornwall . it have inspire a whole generation of child in the county . I actually feel sorry for colleague who go into school to talk about mining and renewable , and who try to inspire child to go into such career , because Melissa Quinn go in and absolutely wipe the floor with they . she have inspire a whole generation to go into space career . a lot of kid and family in Cornwall think , " because we live in Cornwall , this isn ' t for we , " but it absolutely be for we and our child . because of the project , we have see investment go into Truro and Penwith College , which now have the facility to train engineer and to do virtual welding and all sort of thing . I have no idea what go on there , but the facility be very shiny and fabulous . Martin Tucker , the principal , have be fully engage with this project and other to ensure that the kid who be inspire in primary school at the beginning of it can carry out their training in Cornwall and go into career in the county . cornish mp have be fight for this for a decade or more , and it be start to happen now , thank to that project . cosmic Girl run into problem . Newquay be only ever suppose to have one or two launch a year . be we go to get another one ? yes , I absolutely hope that we be , but it be not just about work towards launch . the project mean that we have the know - how , the supply chain and the knowledge to support other launch around the country and across the world . it be fantastic that the spaceport be still there , and we should keep it go . I know that the Cornwall and Isles of Scilly local enterprise partnership and Cornwall Council be still very enthusiastic about ensure that we harness the expertise and do not let any of it go . the other large company that Members may or may not have hear of — I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Woking have hear of it — be Goonhilly Earth Station . when people drive right down into the west of Cornwall and the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) , they will look across the moorland , see huge satellite dish and think , " my goodness ! what on earth be they do there ? " goonhilly be fantastic — the world ' s first private deep space communication network . it provide additional capacity to the NASA and European Space Agency network . any deep space mission that member have hear of will have be support by goonhilly and the team there . I do not know whether member have see the australian movie " the Dish " , in which the character have a small amount of time when they be the only one on Earth support whatever deep space mission or moon landing mission be take place . goonhilly start a bit like that , but it have develop so much more . I can not remember the figure off the top of my head , but the capacity for the amount of datum that can be store at the facility be phenomenal . Ian Jones , who run the facility , be always look for people to go and see what brilliant thing they be do , such as radio astronomy , support by cryogenically cool 30 - metre antenna . it be a part of the global space communication network . on our ambition , we hope that by 2030 Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly will be a leader in the national space programme , exploit the physical , digital and intellectual asset of the area , and use satellite datum to overcome local and global challenge , such as the impact of climate change , which we have hear about . by 2030 , datum , space and aerospace will have contribute an additional £ 1 billion to the economic value of Cornwall and the Isles and Scilly through increase productivity and job turnover , create twice the average gross value add per capita of £ 45 , 000 or more . to facilitate those strategic ambition , we have identify local and national strategic lead to support we in maintain awareness of the priority . that be vital follow the aftermath of what happen at Newquay . as I say , this be still very much part of Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly LEP ' s priority . it be interlink with all the other industry we be try to promote in Cornwall , such as renewable and the resurgence of critical mineral . critical mineral will need to come out of the ground in Cornwall to ensure that we have all these satellite . as I mention early , 150 company be do all sort of amazing thing . satellite that be only the size of a Ford Fiesta can now be build and go up into space . we be go to launch a satellite — hopefully this be still a reality — that take a deep - dive look from space at Cornwall ' s landscape and at what we be and be not do . for example , we have slightly different grade agricultural land . grade 3b land , which be vulnerable to proposal for solar farm , be actually the most fertile land we have in Cornwall . we be learn all that because of satellite . I could go on and on . the change my hon . friend the Member for Woking be introduce today may look like a small change , but it be huge . it will bring clarity to all the company in the City of London that my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest talk about , and to every single company I have mention and more , to ensure that there be a level playing field for everybody , that everything be clear and that they can continue to build and build and build . this be a very exciting future for our country and for Cornwall . I thank my hon . friend the Member for woke for introduce the Bill . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) . there be few more intrepid voyager in this particular enterprise , defiant in the face of adversity but also on a voyage of discovery . she make an excellent speech and pick up on what the Bill be really about . my hon . Friend rightly identify that this not just about put big shiny thing on rocket and fire they into the sky ; it be about unlock other important bit of the economy . my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) also make that point incredibly eloquently . we can go back to Adam Smith and see the cosmic thread , if you will . we be open up new sector for the UK economy and empower our people . I be delighted by the idea of space lawyer . I promise not to go around wave my LLB about , but that sound awfully like the superhero name I would end up give myself . I be really excited about this . I be a member of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , so I be very pleased to hear my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) mention our report . a lot of love go into it — we enjoy ourselves a bit too much , I be not go to deny it ! I find this entire sector incredibly fascinating and extremely exciting , not just because of the aforementioned geekery but because of its potential . I think about kid in my constituency who be now be expose to opportunity and new horizon that simply be not on the radar of young people even five or six year ago . apprentice in my patch be talk about work in this area . some have go to work for Airbus , which be do fantastic thing with satellite . I recently go to its stevenage factory as part of my Industry and Parliament Trust fellowship , which be in space and aerospace . one thing it purport to be do be transfer energy from space , which will genuinely be a game changer . I be flabbergast when that be explain to I . to monitor climate change , satellite will tell we how much heat be transfer out of wood in forest , so we know whether rainforest need to be reforest and whether we be face climate change at 1 . 5 ° or 2 ° . that be mind - bendingly brilliant stuff , and it be now available to kid who , five or six year ago , might have be tell , " right , once you finish school , you either go work in the JJB Sports factory down the road or in a shop . " it be exciting , fantastically valuable and hugely important for thing like our financial sector . Greater Manchester have a fairly sizable financial sector , which be great for we . we also have a large legal sector — I know because I use to work in it . I would love to be a space lawyer . let ' s see how the rest of the year go ; I might need to become one . ultimately , the Bill be about empower we . the other thing I love about it — again , I promise not to wave my LLB about too much — be its simplicity and elegance . it be that coltrane sax solo : so simple that it be brilliant . change a word effectively empower we to do so much more . the power of that be inestimable . that be why it be part of the report that the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee put out . at the moment , we be disincentivise people from innovate , and that be not what we should be about . we be say instead that people should go out and take risk , and we will ensure that they can be reward . they will not be completely and utterly obliterate for have a go . even if the second - stage fuel pump do not work , it will not be the end of the business . we need to be alive to that because we need risk taker , as we do in every sector . we need people who be willing to boldly go into the final frontier . [ interruption . ] I have not finish yet . when I shout " House ! " everyone will know that I have do they all . fundamentally , this be about ensure that Britain ' s future be not just here on Earth , but in the star , and we have every right to be there — as much as any other country . I thank my hon . friend for allow I to intervene , especially give that I have just ramble on for who know how long . one thing I do not mention that he might be interested in be the defence sector . again , when I visit goonhilly , there be a huge amount go on there . we talk about our maritime fleet be bother by the Russians and the Chinese on a daily basis , but our satellite and space be as well . it be hugely important that we be at the forefront of this . do he agree ? my hon . friend be entirely correct . like I , she have be on the armed force parliamentary scheme . I be restrain myself from mention Culdrose when she be give her excellent speech , but of course I have now do it . our defence sector be incredibly important . again , we be make this stuff here at BAE Systems and Airbus , and defence manufacturer in this country create job and opportunity . that be hugely important , and I be absolutely delighted to support the Bill . I love its technical merit . my hon . friend the Member for Woking have play an absolute blinder in do something quite sensible . I will give a live example because , quite frankly , the Empire would not have be able to build the second Death Star if it have be on the hook for the price of the first one . my hon . friend have stick the landing . I congratulate he and look forward to support the Bill . it be an honour to follow Jean - Luc Picard — sorry , I mean the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) . that be pun - central . I may have a few of my own in this speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) on bring the Bill this far . it have be bring before we for second Reading . the aim of the Bill be to help support our space sector , as he eloquently say . I be bear in 1969 , as it happen — the same year we take " one small step for man , one giant leap for mankind , " as the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) say . it feel with recent technological advance that we could be on the threshold of another such leap . we wake up to the news today that Odysseus have land on the lunar plain , on the face of the moon — the first private mission by the Americans since 1972 . we have always as a species look to the star and hope one day to dwell among they , and I feel the enthusiasm in the House for that mission today . the hon . Member also mention the Artemis mission , which will be the first staff space mission that will orbit the moon , hopefully next year . Artemis be the goddess of the wilderness , so the mission have be aptly name as we begin our new era of exploration of the star . the Bill amend the Space Industry Act 2018 , which be write with the purpose of regulate space activity , sub - orbital activity and associate activity carry out in the United Kingdom . the space industry and its trade body , UKspace , welcome the Bill , as we do . the Space Industry Act enable spaceflight activity from the UK , such as operate a satellite in orbit and enable launch to orbit from UK spaceport for the first time . company that conduct spaceflight activity from the UK must hold insurance and indemnify the Government against possible third - party claim for damage . currently , the Space Industry Act say that there be no limit to the amount of compensation that must be pay if anything go wrong with UK - own satellite in space . industry believe that address this will prevent satellite operator from register satellite in other country to get a well liability deal . space be become more congested . it be right that we amend legislation as the industry develop . we be now at a key point in develop a thriving and dynamic space industry — an industry that we now know be worth £ 17 . 5 billion to the UK , employ up to 50 , 000 people . I be speak recently to Airbus , which the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton also mention . as I be sure member be aware , Airbus be the second big global space company and the large in the UK . its representative tell I that they operate over seven key site in the UK , principally Stevenage and Portsmouth . from Stevenage to Saturn have quite a ring to it — pardon the pun , I be just follow the pun of the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton . as he say , why should this industry not feature in every sector and in every constituency . we be develop the new Atom Valley in Greater Manchester , to the north of the conurbation . the supply chain be vast . there be almost 2 , 900 space supplier , half of which be small and medium - sized enterprise , and it be vital that we support the industry here in the UK . I happen to know that in 2022 in my constituency £ 1 million be spend with space supplier . it be good to see procurement in the sector that benefit the bottom 10 % of the most deprived area of the land . there be so many good reason to support the sector . we want to remove barrier to new business set up here in the UK . we want company to be incentivise to set up in the UK , rather than take their business elsewhere , whereupon they be likely to use supplier geographically local to themselves . we do not want to lose out on these job ; we want these job of the future to be here in the UK . interestingly , one of the other main site that be strong in the space sector be Newport . as we hear from the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , job have be at risk in that area because of the Tata Steel plant . unite the Union and my own union , Community , tell I that well - pay , highly skilled , unionised steel job be at risk in the area , so we must ensure that these area be not de - industrialised so that there be opportunity available for our worker and for our young people . we also want our own sme to be part of the supply chain . encourage business be what we should be all about . the Bill address what happen if anything be to go wrong , from launch failure to satellite crash . however , this be not just about UK launch , but UK ownership , as the Government have the final liability on any space item that be own by the UK Government . I congratulate the hon . member for woke on bring his Bill to the House today . I thank the hon . member for Wyre Forest for his work with the all - party parliamentary group for space . he quote the " the Wealth of Nations " , which be much - favour by Conservative Members . I remind he of Smith ' s treatise " the Invisible Hand " , in which he say that economic activity should enrich the whole community . we know that space can do that . I congratulate the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth . I be intrigue by what she say . our nation contain a number of leave - behind area , include — I be not try to make a party political point — some of our coastal area , market town and suburb . through an agglomeration of the maritime , aviation and space sector , we can really begin to think about how we can regenerate those area by give people opportunity , just as , when I be a young councillor in Manchester in the 1990 , we create a legal sector , a banking sector and a media sector . People will not have to leave their community when they turn 18 , or turn 22 and get their degree , because those technological job of the future will be in the area in which they grow up , and that , I think , be one of the great hope that we politician can give our young people . this be what the space sector provide through the supply chain across the country , but particularly in the south - west and the Shetland Islands : a diverse geographical spread . to the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton I say thank for all the pun , and I wish he good luck with his career as a space lawyer after — well , whatever happen at the general election ! I wish he well . industrialist tell we that the Bill will give they confidence and will encourage investment in the UK , provide highly pay , highly skilled and yes , unionised job throughout the nation , and on that basis , we support it . may I say how privileged I be to be chair this debate ? I once host the astronaut Nicole Stott and the crew of Discovery in the Public Gallery and then take they over to no . 10 Downing Street . I be also honour and privileged to have meet Eugene Cernan , the last man to walk on the moon , on two occasion — once here and once at Cape Canaveral — and I have see a few launch . so space be very important to I . this be probably the most enjoyable debate I have ever take part in . particularly after Wednesday night ' s activity , it be nice to have a debate of a cross - party nature in term of its support and enthusiasm . resign ! he have go and spoilt it all , Mr Deputy Speaker . a few month ago I go to see the show " the Moon Walkers " , with narration by Tom Hanks , about the 12 man — and they be all man — who have walk on the moon . it be a remarkable exhibition , and I highly recommend it to everyone , particularly you , Mr Deputy Speaker , if you be interested in space . it be about an age of adventure , an extraordinary era 50 year ago when people be walk on another celestial body . we think it be the dawn of a whole new era and that mankind , and womankind , would carry on and explore the rest of the universe , but that do not happen , and no one have be back to the moon since . yesterday , however , the United States return there , for the first time for 50 year , as the shadow Minister say , although it be not a person but the Odysseus robot that land near the moon ' s south pole . the real significance of this event , however , be not the 50 - year gap but the fact that Intuitive Machines , a Houston - base company , send that robot to the moon . the space age have enter a completely new era , which be not about state and government of big country try to prove how powerful and effective they be for the purpose of national pride , but about real commercial opportunity . many of my hon . friend have mention all the commercial opportunity that be out there . People be do this not for reason of national pride , but because it be so useful to humankind , and so important for communication , sense , geographical information and all the other element that have be mention . this be now a properly base commercial opportunity for the UK , and that be why I want to thank my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) for bring this short but impactful and timely Bill to the House . I also greatly enjoy the contribution from all the other member who have speak . I be pleased to confirm that the Bill have the Government ' s full support . let I briefly explain why . as my hon . friend and other have say , the UK have a thrive space sector . in fact , I learn this morning that Cornwall have 150 space company . we have a far more thriving space sector than most people realise . do you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , that the satellite capital of Europe be Glasgow , and that more small satellite be build there than anywhere outside California ? the UK be now the second most attractive destination for commercial space investment after the United States . we get more space investment in the UK than any other country in the world apart from the United States . give your interest in space , Mr Deputy Speaker , do you realise that no rocket have ever be launch into orbit from european soil ? we have a European Space Agency , which have launch rocket into space , but it do so largely from french Guyana in South America . Rockets have be launch into space from Kazakhstan , but never from european soil . we now have a spaceport in the Shetlands prepare to do just that — SaxaVord , which many hon . member have mention . we might end up with one from Cornwall as well , but Shetlands might be the first . that will be a truly historic moment . let I clarify that rocket be launch into space from Europe , but they be suborbital . from Norway and Sweden , they go around the earth once or maybe twice , and then come back down to Earth . never have a rocket be launch into sustained orbit from european soil . the UK plan to be the first european nation to do that , which mark a huge opportunity . we set up the regulatory and licensing regime to license the spaceport because , not just in the UK but in other european country , company be make satellite and rocket that they want to launch into space . it will be far easy and cheap for they to do it from european soil than have to transport the rocket to America , French Guyana or Kazakhstan . on more of a technical point , if the Minister do not mind , I know that we have do an awful lot in a very short space of time to get our regulatory system up to scratch . how do we compare with the other european nation , or Europe as a whole ? this have be a Brexit opportunity , dare I say . leave the EU enable we to set up a whole new regulatory regime in great detail . other european country have regime for space activity , but none with the same detail or launch opportunity as the UK . in the UK we be bless with our geography , for various reason . to launch a rocket in space , it need to be launch from somewhere where there be not a lot of people , and with a trajectory so that if the rocket have a splashdown , it will not land on any other people . Cornwall be obviously very interesting , as be the north of Shetland . if a rocket be launch into orbit from there , it go north and through the Bering strait . the first land it would hit would be New Zealand , but hopefully it will be up in orbit by that time . not many other european country have such geographical opportunity . it would be very difficult for Switzerland or Germany to do that . we be bless with our geography . another difference — and why there be an opportunity for the UK — be that if we go back a couple of decade , the main focus be on big rocket launch satellite into geostationary orbit , which be 47 , 000 mile out , where they stay above the same point of land as the Earth rotate . a very big rocket be need to get a satellite up there and into place . it be far easy to do that if the rocket be launch close to and in the direction of the equator . the European Space Agency ' s launch site be in french Guyana because it be close to the equator . we now do not send geostationary satellite that far out into space — all the interest be in low Earth - orbit satellite . all the satellite launch by SpaceX for its internet service be low - orbit satellite . it be easy to do that over the north pole . the change technical nature of the use of space and satellite represent a huge opportunity for the UK . the satellite themselves be get a lot small . go back 20 or 30 year , the satellite be the size of bus , whereas now they can be the size of fridge or microwave . they require much small rocket to launch they into space . I hope you enjoy all that explanation , Mr Deputy Speaker . as we have hear from various hon . member and the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , the UK space industry support an industrial base of over 1 , 500 space company and provide highly skilled , high - quality job across the UK , with over 77 % of employee hold at least a primary degree . we hear about job in Cornwall and Manchester ; this be true levelling up . I also mention space job in Glasgow and at SaxaVord in the Shetlands . in 2018 , Orbex , another scottish company , open a new facility in Forres , incorporate design and manufacturing facility for its Prime launch vehicle . the Prime project have create more than 140 highly skilled job in the local area so far , with many more anticipated as the company continue to grow . Highlands and Islands Enterprise anticipate that the Sutherland spaceport will support around 613 full - time equivalent post throughout the wide Highlands and Islands , include an estimate 44 full - time equivalent post on the site . SaxaVord anticipate that by the end of this year , its spaceport site could support 605 job in Scotland , include 140 locally and 210 across the wide Shetland region . as we hear , Spaceport Cornwall anticipate that its project will deliver 150 direct job and 240 indirect job by 2030 . I be a little bit anxious that the Minister will forget Airbus , which be in Newport West . I be sure that he be go to mention it . as the shadow Minister say , it be really important for cyber - security and tech job in south Wales . it be a vital part of our network , and I want to remind he about it . the challenge be that there be so many business and company involve in aerospace in the UK , and in the space industry generally , that I can not list they all . the shadow Minister mention Airbus . clearly , Airbus and British Aerospace be the two really big aerospace company , but the industry be not just about those two giant . there be many thousand of small and medium - sized company , and there be a whole supply chain , create job , value and economic opportunity for the UK , which the legislation be design to help enable . build on the success of the UK space sector , the Government have set out bold spaceflight ambition — the text I be give by official be definitely bold . in our national space strategy , the UK be boldly go where no country have go before . [ hon . member : " Hooray ! " ] the pun be not stop . that include make the UK the lead provider of commercial small satellite launch in Europe by 2030 . as I say , the small satellite present the opportunity , not the big one . to achieve our ambition , the Government have invest over £ 57 million so far through the Launch UK programme to grow new UK market for small satellite launch and suborbital spaceflight . before I come to the regulatory aspect of the Bill , let I say that many hon . friend have talk about the commercial opportunity . I will not talk only about that , but the choice to land the Odysseus robot on the moon yesterday be interesting . why go to the moon ? I be try to paint a big picture , rather than concentrate on the immediate commercial opportunity , because lot of people see opportunity for further space development . Elon Musk , who have a few achievement under his belt , have say that he want to die on Mars . I do not know how realistic that is , but he have launch a Tesla , or one of his car , into orbit . there be plan to send human back to the moon next year , and plan to send human to Mars . human have look to the sky since time immemorial and dream about what be up there . human instinct be to go and explore , which be why we go around the earth . in polynesian culture , people go from one island to another . they set forth in their boat without necessarily realise what they would find when they arrive . the human instinct be to explore the universe . we do not know what we will find there , or what the opportunity will be , although I do not think we will find the Clangers or the Soup Dragon on some other planet . I never think I would intervene on the word " Clangers " , but there we be . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for critical mineral . obviously , critical mineral be another huge industry in Cornwall . as we know , globally , we still do not have enough supply for the future — certainly not from friendly nation that we can trust . do my hon . friend agree that in future generation , space could be another source of critical mineral that we need for our supply chain ? absolutely . I thank my hon . friend for that point , which be very well make . the Odysseus robot go to the south pole of the moon because that be where the supply of water be . water be obviously not a critical mineral , but it be a source material for energy and oxygen . we can get hydrogen out of it , but the reason why commercial company and , indeed , government be interested in the moon and Mars be exactly that : critical mineral . we have a limited supply of those mineral on Earth , but we may be able to find they in other place . while we be wait to get to infinity and beyond , it be important to highlight other very innovative british company that be look at do extraordinary thing in the area of critical mineral . they be seek to take the lunar regolith — moondust , which be a metal oxide — and use robot to create 3d printing powder , which could be use to print a moon base through additive printing . the by - product of the powder be oxygen . keep in mind that it cost $ 1 million per kilogram to get a payload to the surface of the moon , and that we need not just breathe oxygen , but energy and oxidant for propulsion . it be extraordinary what british company be do to make it possible to not only get to the moon and occupy it , but use it as a launchpad to get to further place — such as Mars , speak of Elon Musk ' s ambition . the Americans need we ; I think we should remember that . my hon . friend have expound a very important point : we be critical to the space industry , and to space exploration more generally . come back to the issue of regulation — come down to Earth from our big vision , the Clangers and so on — the Government have be fund the industry . we put in place the Space Industry Act 2018 , which my hon . friend the Member for Woking talk about , and appoint the Civil Aviation Authority as a spaceflight regulator — that be why I be answer this debate , as a Transport Minister , rather than someone from the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . get into space and orbit be a DFT responsibility . the civil aviation regulator — which have license SaxaVord , for example — enable the licensing of spaceflight activity from the UK , such as operate a satellite in orbit , and enable a launch to orbit from UK spaceport for the first time . the Government recognise that the issue of liability and insurance be of the utmost concern to the space sector , and they be obviously the entire point of the Bill . the industry make clear in its response to the consultation on the then draft space industry regulation in 2020 , and in response to the Government call for evidence to inform orbital liability and insurance policy in October 2021 , that hold unlimited liability will have an adverse effect on the UK space flight industry . People sometimes object to private member ' Bills because they be not base on consultation , but this issue have be endlessly consult on and negotiate with industry , and the industry be call for this Bill . the industry have advise that it be impossible , not just difficult , to obtain insurance for an unlimited amount . member might ask , " why be that , if the chance of something happen be infinitesimally small ? " the reason be that it be impossible for the actuary to quantify it ; with infinity over infinity , one could come up with any value . also , insurer be require by regulation to show that they have the capital to meet any claim on they . clearly , insurer can not have unlimited capital , so it be regulatorily and legally impossible for insurance company to insure to an unlimited amount . it be very difficult for the industry to say to investor , " please give I money to fund the launch of a rocket , even though I may not be able to insure it . " we need liability limitation so that launch company and other space operator can get insurance , and so can get the investment that they need . if a spaceflight company can not get unlimited insurance , it obviously can not get full insurance . as a number of hon . member have say , if the Government do not limit a spaceflight operator ' s liability , spaceflight company and investor would instead look to more favourable regulatory regime in other country , where government share the risk involve by limit an operator ' s liability and offer a state guarantee . the United States already do this , as do France with French Guiana . as my hon . friend the Member for Woking have explain , there be power in the Space Industry Act that we can and do use to limit a spaceflight operator ' s liability when carry out spaceflight activity from the UK . government policy be that the regulator should use those power and specify limit on operator liability in the licence , so that no operator face unlimited liability . however , the law set out that the Government " may " do that , rather than " must " . the Government fully support the Bill for two key reason . it be consistent with our policy that all spaceflight operator licence should have a limit on liability . it will not , therefore , impose any additional liability or risk on UK taxpayer . my hon . Friend make that point . the Government also recognise the value that the industry place on legislative certainty on this matter . as I point out , if investor be to make an investment in a space company , they need to know that the company will be able to get insurance . the report by the Taskforce on Innovation , Growth and Regulatory Reform — the TIGRR report , for short — publish in May 2021 , express concern from the space sector over the use of the word " may " in section 12 ( 2 ) of the Space Industry Act . the Bill would replace that " may " with " must " . I thank all hon . member for their contribution . my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) explain his great interest in space , and mention financial service , which I want to come on to . the point be well make that before the UK be a spacefaring nation , we be a seafaring nation . London be the big port in the world for more than 200 year , which lead to a whole maritime industry with insurance around it , include Lloyd ' s of London , and lawyer . we have a huge maritime industry in London as a result of have a maritime fleet , and we now have the same opportunity with space . we can have space investor — I have meet some of they — as well as space lawyer , space insurance company , regulatory expert and so on . it be a huge opportunity . the Government and the regulator need to ensure that the industry have the right incentive . the Minister mention port . obviously , quite a few of our maritime asset be consider critical national infrastructure . have any discussion be have on whether our space asset will also fall into that category ? that apply particularly if we be to launch a 3d printer so that we can build on the moon , which be apparently the only place where the Liberal Democrats will not try to block house building . my hon . Friend ask an interesting question . I will raise it with official and come back to he with an answer . my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) give the most fantastic and enthusiastic speech about the space opportunity for Cornwall . I bet most people in Britain do not realise quite how important space be for Cornwall . there be 150 different company ; I have no idea that Cornwall have its own space lawyer , so that be a great insight . we also hear about the use of satellite for the maritime sector and various other issue to do with Cornwall . I want to make sure that my hon . friend know that as the Government Minister responsible , I fully agree that the cornish launch , which be before my time as a Minister , be absolutely a success from a regulatory and investor point of view . I agree that the whole regime work . my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest make the point that we in this country tend to overemphasise the negative , and we always look at the bad thing that happen . I think I be right in say that the first three launch from SpaceX do not get into space , but be actually see as success because they contribute to the whole launch operation . lot of thing be learn from those launch , and the same be true of the cornish launch . I do not think I say early that the cornish launch do actually make it to space ; it be during the secondary bit that the fuel problem happen and it go wrong . however , we do launch successfully from british soil , and do make it to space . I would not want to malign the cornish space launch in that way , so I fully accept my hon . friend ' s point . it be great to hear that cornish child be so inspire by space now . as we have hear , there be huge commercial and job opportunity , and I be sure there will be many great career that will come from child have an interest in space . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) for his general huge enthusiasm and countless pun , which have liven up this day . we could all do with a bit of levity . I thank the shadow Minister for his great speech and for some of his pun , as well as his call for I to resign — [ Laughter . ] I be grateful for the Opposition ' s support for the Bill . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for woke for his Bill , which would amend section 12 ( 2 ) of the Space Industry Act and meet a key request from the sector , as well as address a recommendation make by the taskforce on innovation , growth and regulatory reform . indeed , by turn that one word " may " into " must " , the Bill will enable Britain ' s space industry to reach the final frontier and beyond . I thank honourable member on both side of the House for attend the debate and for their support . in particular , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , who so ably and knowledgeably chair the all - party parliamentary group for space . in his wise and interesting speech , he touch on many thing , but in particular how important the grow space industry be and can be to our financial and insurance sector . I think that be a very interesting point to bring out . my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) make a passionate and eloquent speech , particularly pertain to how the space industry be already change Cornwall for the well , add to the cornish economy and with huge amount of scope for future growth and engagement . I be particularly take by her point about how schoolchildren and student be be enthuse by the space industry . I thank she for her support . my hon . friend the Member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) , in a very witty and engaging speech , alight on a number of interesting and important point , but particularly how our legal service industry — the legal sector — can and will benefit from a grow space industry . I be also extremely grateful to the shadow Minister and the Minister for their support for the Bill . as we would expect , they be master of their brief and speak with great insight , but also enthusiasm , about this grow industry and the help that the Bill will give it . for that dynamic , innovative and grow future for our space industry , I urge the House to support the Bill . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . I do not know if that make you a space lord now , Mr Lord , but congratulation . unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . yes , it ' s I again ; early , I be play up front , but I be back at the back for this debate , and I hope to be back on the Front Bench later if my Bill make the progress that I hope it will after Second Reading . on Sunday 11 July 2021 , the final of the man ' s Euros football tournament at Wembley could have result in not just the sad loss for the english football team , but in a tragic loss of life . that be the finding of the independent review that be conduct by Baroness Louise Casey into the event of that day , suggest that we narrowly escape a disaster that could have result in fatality or irreversible injury . for everyone here , the mere think that such a catastrophe be still possible in this country at a football match in the 21st century , after the tragedy of the latter part of the last century , be profoundly unsettling . some member of this House be present at the Euro 2020 final , which take place in 2021 , and witness at first hand the reckless behaviour of some people seek to enter the stadium without a ticket . I admit that I be genuinely shocked to discover , when the House of Commons Culture , Media and Sport Committee , of which I be a member at the time , undertake an inquiry follow the Euros , that enter or attempt to enter a football match without a ticket be not a specific criminal offence . that be why that Committee acknowledge the need for my Bill in a recommendation in its " safety at major sporting event " report , publish in December 2023 . that demonstrate the broad cross - party recognition of this problem , and the consensus on the need for legislative action to put it right . if hon . member take a glance at the Bill , they will see that all the member of that Select Committee with seat within its territorial scope — Wales and England — be name co - sponsor , so it have the full support of that Committee . my Bill would bring into law recommendation that come out of the Select Committee ' s finding and the Baroness Casey Review by amend the Football ( Offences ) Act 1991 to introduce a new offence of unauthorised or attempt unauthorised entry to football match . it be estimate that at the Euro 2020 final , somewhere between 3 , 000 and 5 , 000 ticketless individual be able to gain entry . many people will have see the disorder , the overcrowding and the safety hazard that result from those event . those action not only compromise the safety and security of steward , police officer , spectator , player and official , but greatly tarnish the reputation of the sport and this country . the thing that really surprise I be that Wembley be not just your average stadium ; it be a purpose - build stadium that we would expect to have the good security , yet that number of people be able to get through . as my hon . Friend say , that could potentially have cause the loss of life . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we be all shock that those event be able to take place at a relatively new flagship national stadium , so we must think about how stadium be design . Wembley have a particular feature — the long Wembley way , which go back to when the stadium be originally open in 1923 . traditionally , lot of fan approach in that direction in very large number . one thing that my Bill do that might address my right hon . friend ' s concern be to make it possible for the offence to be enforce not just at the turnstile but around the premise on private land , so an outer security cordon can enforce the offence that the Bill create . that should help in a place like Wembley . as he say , it be shocking to see the number of people who be able to get past the steward and rush entry into the ground . I support the hon . Gentleman ' s Bill and think he be right to introduce it , so I say this in the spirit of scrutinise legislation : he be use what happen at the Euros as a justifiable reason for his Bill — I go along with that — but by increase its scope to include area that the explanatory note seem to suggest include bar and car park , it seem that he be make someone try to blag their way into a car park the same offence as try to tailgate their way into the semi - final of the Euros . do he really think that those two thing should be treat in the same way ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . he be always assiduous in his scrutiny of legislation , and rightly so . in isolation , it will not be an offence to try to get into a car park , but the Bill reflect the reality of the area around football ground . Cardiff City stadium , which be locate in my constituency , be build a few year ago to replace the old Ninian Park stadium across the road . like a lot of new stadium , it be in a slightly more out - of - town location , surround by car park that specifically serve those attend match . in some instance , to enforce the intention of this new offence , it might be necessary to set up an outer cordon immediately outside the premise of the stadium itself , which be the purpose of the provision . there may be other hospitality setting close to the stadium but outside the turnstile . in that instance , if another security cordon need to be set up , my Bill could be enforce to prevent people who come along not with a ticket and with the intention of attend the match but simply to try to jib their way into the ground from do so . such action compromise the safety of individual and potentially tarnish the country ' s reputation . the Euros be return in 2028 , and we can not afford a replay of those event . the current legal framework do not address the problem . those catch enter a stadium without authorisation face no legal repercussion . those attempt to enter be simply move on , and often try to gain entry multiple time . there be no consequence for their selfish action , which risk jeopardise match and could recklessly endanger the safety and life of other . the Bill be intend to respond directly to those challenge by make unauthorised entry into football match a specific offence . the aim be to deter people from attempt to enter stadium without a valid ticket . before the debate , I do an interview with , among other , Martin Keown — the former Arsenal footballer — on talkSPORT . there be a feeling in our discussion that the deterrent effect be a significant part of this measure . a fine of up to £ 1 , 000 might be a deterrent but , under the Bill , a conviction for this offence could lead to a court - impose football ban order , under the Football Spectators Act 1989 and the Football ( Offences ) Act 1991 , which would prevent a person from attend football match for a specify period of between three and 10 year . that would be an even great deterrent . this Bill seek to address all form of unauthorised entry , recognise the broad spectrum of tactic employ to gain illicit access to stadium . that raise the question of why the Bill be design only to apply to football . the same thing could apply to a Rugby world cup final at Twickenham , the Olympics — we might have they again in the future — or any other big sporting event . be this problem unique to football ? be there any reason why the Bill should not apply to any major sporting event that might have the same problem ? the hon . Gentleman make a valid point . I have speak to the Football Supporters Association about this Bill , and it be concerned about any legislation that single out football in this way . the reality be that the current legislative framework include a significant suite of legislation that apply particularly to football , bear of the event of the latter part of the last century . we have move on hugely , and I think we all think that we have move on permanently , from the sort of scene that be witness at the Euros final . because there have be problem at other type of event in recent year , I accept that there be a case for take a wide look at the issue of gain illicit entry to venue , whether for a music concert , a festival or another type of sporting event . the Government — and his Majesty ' s Opposition , if they be to become the next government shortly — should look far into the good way to achieve that outcome . in the relatively narrow confine of my private Member ' s Bill , when there be the opportunity to amend legislation already on the statute book and when significant football event be imminent , I think it be justify to bring forward a measure that apply specifically to football , but the hon . Gentleman ' s broad point be absolutely valid . the scope of the Bill extend across the top tier of domestic football . we be not talk about the local park match . the Bill include the premier league , the championship , league one and two , the national league , the woman ' s super league and championship , and the Cymru premier competition , as well as international match in England and Wales . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and I be glad he have clarify that the top tier will be include . although we hear about the super league and all the rest of it , team like my own beloved Newport County be important , too . although they might not be in the very top tier — they be obviously as good as those club , but they be in a slightly low tier — it be important that we have clarification that they will be include , because it be important to they . my hon . friend be absolutely right . someone chuckle when she say Newport County be as good as the top tier , but the fright they give Manchester United in their recent FA cup tie confirm the veracity of her judgment . I remember as a young man who grow up only 5 mile up the road from the old Somerton Park — they play at a different ground now — often sneak away without tell my mother on the 123 bus to watch Newport County play . it be always at 3 . 15 on a Saturday afternoon , because of the proximity to the Llanwern steelwork . it allow the steelworker finish their shift to attend the match . when the result be read out , those of we who be old enough might remember that Newport County ' s home game be always " late kick - off " , rather than be announce at 4 . 45 in the usual way . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the Bill will apply to Newport County and right down as far as the national league in the man ' s game in England and the other league I mention . in fact , Cardiff City ' s stadium , which as I have say be in my constituency , host the home game not just of Cardiff City , but the Welsh national team , and it would be remiss of I not to mention the impeccable behaviour of Welsh fan attend match there and the crack atmosphere they create with their passionate rendition of song such as " Hen Wlad fy Nhadau " and " Yma o Hyd " . the vast majority of football fan across the country support club such as my team , Cardiff City , or any other do so in the right spirit . it be important that they feel safe and secure when support their football team . I make it clear that the intention of the Bill be to support real football fan and to keep they safe and secure while they be enjoy the spectacle of support their team . football be a big part of our culture . as member know , I represent a Welsh constituency and be bear and bring up in Wales . we be often associate with rugby , and I hope after today ' s debate to hop over to Dublin for the Wales - Ireland rugby match in the six Nations at the weekend . however , in recent year , football have grow ever more important in the national culture of Wales , and it have always be of huge importance across the rest of the UK , bring together individual from all walk of life in share support of their team . the action of a few should not be allow to compromise the safety and security of the majority . in draft the Bill — I thank civil servant for their help in that — I have be mindful of the balance between enhance security and maintain the open and inclusive nature of football match . the intention be not to criminalise fan or create barrier to genuine supporter enjoy the game ; instead , the focus be on prevent those who would seek to cause disorder and harm from enter stadium , thus ensure a safe environment for all . by strengthen the legal framework , we can deter unauthorised entry , reduce the risk of disorder and violence , and ensure that football continue to be a source of joy and community for everyone . I urge the House to give the Bill a second reading — rise — before I finish my remark , I give way to the hon . Gentleman , who have just successfully get his Bill through Second reading , and will , I be sure , want to reciprocate for this one . I be highly supportive of the Bill , and I congratulate the hon . gentleman on introduce it . back in 2011 , I have another successful private Member ' s Bill , which be now the Sports Grounds Safety Authority Act 2011 . his Bill be another in that fine tradition of improve safety at our sport ground for fan and people in the area . if I hear he correctly , the territorial extent do not include Scotland and Northern Ireland . if his Bill succeed , will he and the Minister share their learning with colleague in Scotland and Northern Ireland — we be all delighted that we have a Northern Ireland Assembly again — so that if they host future Euro and World cup event , they have this sort of excellent measure in place , as England and Wales will ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on get his Bill through its Second reading — his second such Bill , which be quite an achievement — and I hope that he get it through its remain stage before the general election . I do not usually approve of Lords , but he be an elect Lord , so I approve of his Bill go through . he be absolutely right that my Bill apply to England and Wales , because that be the scope of the legislation that I be seek to amend . Scotland and Northern Ireland have their own law on safety at football match and so on , but I certainly encourage they to take a look at my measure . I be a big believer in devolution , so I would not tell they what to do , but they might find some useful idea in it . he be right to point that out to the House . we can , from all side of the House , come together to send a strong message that such behaviour will not be tolerate and that the safety and security of people attend and work at football match be of absolute importance . the Bill reflect our collective responsibility to address the challenge face the sport and to ensure that football remain a positive and uniting force in our society . I thank the English Football Association and the Football Association of Wales , the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , civil servant , Clerks and so on for their support in draft the Bill . I also thank Mary in the Members ' Tea Room , with whom I discuss my Bill this morning . she give it her full support , show that it pass the common - sense test . I commend it to the House . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) . I be delighted that he manage to get " common sense " in before the end of his speech , because my wife would not have forgive I if I have not mention common sense in my speech , and he give I a perfect opportunity to do so , for which I thank he . I rise to support the hon . Gentleman ' s Bill , which be important and worthwhile , and to wish it safe passage through both Houses of Parliament . however , as you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , I take my role on Fridays very seriously . the danger with private member ' Bills be that they start with a worthy sentiment but end up go through both Houses with very little scrutiny because everybody agree with that sentiment , so we end up with bad legislation and unintended consequence . I raise a couple of point with the hon . Gentleman early , and I want to test they and maybe another point or two a bit far . it will be interesting to get the Minister ' s view when he respond , and the hon . Gentleman ' s view when he wind up the debate , on whether or not — it may well be that the answer be " not " — any amendment may be consider in Committee or on Report to improve the Bill or take out something that be not intend . I do not intend to speak for long , which will be a huge relief to everybody , particularly on a Friday . I make my remark genuinely and in the spirit of try to be constructive and raise potential issue . it be important that they be consider , even if they be then dismiss . the hon . Gentleman set out in his opening remark why the Bill be important . it be about what happen at the Euros final , where it be estimate that 3 , 000 to 5 , 000 people without ticket gain entry . they do not just try to gain entry ; they actually do it through mass forced entry at turnstile . I do not think that they necessarily gain entry by tailgating ; it be through the deliberate ploy of force their way into the stadium . of course , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the problem that such behaviour cause . it be unfair , because people might end up sit in seat that other have legitimately pay for , and ticket holder can not get to their seat . that be bad enough , but there be also a massive issue with safety and security . tragically , we have see in the past what can happen at football stadium when thing be not as they should be . on that basis , he be absolutely right to introduce the Bill , and I would not want to gainsay any of what he say . although I accept that my concern be minor , they be genuine . I would not want to see rule that be design to tackle very bad behaviour be apply excessively to people who I do not think the Bill be necessarily aim at . I talk about people blagge their way into a car park , and I be slightly concerned about the way the Bill be write . I do not know what you think , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I have always consider the hon . Gentleman to be a bit of a cheeky chappie . he look like the type of person who , before his political career — not today , as he be a serious politician — may well have try to blag his way in somewhere . he just have that look about he . the hon . Gentleman be a very astute individual . I first attend Twickenham in 1978 , when I be very young indeed , to go and watch Gareth Edwards win his 50th cap for the Welsh rugby team . I and three of my friend get into the ground by virtue of a £ 5 note , for which we be give £ 2 change , even though we do not have ticket . I be very young , but I should confess that , as he have raise it . I be sure we be all very grateful for that intervention . it be amazing what you find out on a Friday , isn ' t it , Mr Deputy Speaker ? it be like a confessional . perhaps other member will want I to give way so that they can declare their interest as well . we have probably accidentally find out why the Bill apply only to football and not to any other sport . my point be that there be a world of difference between a group of people who have a deliberate strategy of engage in public disorder to force their way into an event through sheer weight of number , cause all sort of potentially serious repercussion , and people who be desperate to get into an event who do not have ticket and who cheekily try to blag their way in through one mean or another . I think most people would accept that there be a world of difference between the two . what I would not want to see be the full weight of the law clamp down on the second group in the same way as it would on the first . my slight fear be that that that could happen , give the way the Bill be write . a young person who try to cheekily blag their way into an event could find themselves face the same repercussion as other . I do not think that anybody would want that to happen . I be not sure whether there be a legal way to differentiate between those two thing — it may well be that we say it be for a court to make that adjudication — but I would not want somebody who try to cheekily blag their way into an event to find themselves treat as severely as a criminal make a forced entry with public disorder design . it would be nice if we could at least think about how we could do that . the explanatory note make clear that the penalty be a fine " not exceed " £ 1 , 000 . we could argue , with justification , that the fine should be vary accord to the situation , so that a minor offence would be reflect in the fine . however , the explanatory note go on to state : " a court must " — not may , but must — " also issue a football ban order follow conviction for the offence " . they go on to state : " unless it consider that there be particular circumstance that would make it unjust " . I accept that , but in effect they be say that ordinarily , whatever the scale of the offence , that be what the court should do . it do not even say that it should do that , but that it must do so . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that that be the way the legislation currently operate , but there be discretion available to the court not to issue a ban order in exactly the sort of circumstance he describe , where somebody be not intent on cause serious disorder but what might be refer to colloquially as a cheeky bit of attempt jibbing . I would envisage that in those circumstance someone might at first get turn away , but that if they be persistent they could be subject to the offence in the Bill . I be very grateful for that clarification , which be genuinely useful . the other point I want to spend very few minute on , which I raise in my intervention on the hon . Gentleman , be about other event . if such unauthorised entry be an issue , it should not apply just to football match . I would be very interested to hear what the Minister and the shadow Minister have to say about that . this country be renowned for host world - lead sport event across the piece : the rugby world cup , the rugby league world cup , the Olympics , athletic and so on . Most of those event have ticket that be very much seek after and oversubscribed — we be a sport - love nation . the Bill have be bring forward largely as a result , as the hon . Gentleman say , of what happen at the Euros — the UEFA European Football Championship . often in this place , we pass legislation as a result of something happen . something go wrong and we think , " something must be do , " so we pass legislation reactively to deal with an issue that have already happen . to the good of my knowledge , what the Bill address have not happen — it may well have happen , but I be not aware of it ; other people with more expertise will know — at the rugby world cup final or the rugby league world cup final , so nobody have bring forward any legislation on that . it might seem unusual — I be unusual , before you get in there first , Mr Deputy Speaker — but rather than just always pass legislation reactively , perhaps we might sometimes have a crack at pass legislation proactively , and try to anticipate thing that might happen and nip they in the bud beforehand . the hon . Gentleman have bring forward the basis of a bill which we could use to do something a bit more proactive . be there any reason why the provision in the Bill could not apply to a range of other major event , in particular major sporting event , so that we do not have to wait for such thing to happen before we do something about it ? we could actually get in there first and try to stop they from happen in the first place , or at least make sure we have appropriate penalty . the hon . Gentleman be renowned for his huge support for the music industry , and I commend he for everything he do for that industry . he be one of its great champion in the House . I be not an expert in the way that he be ; I may be enthusiastic , but I do not possess the same expertise . however , as a layman , I should have think that this would be more of an issue at music event than at sporting event . I could be completely wrong about that , but I suspect I be right . I will certainly bow to the hon . Gentleman ' s great expertise if I be wrong . there may well be exist legislation to deal with these matter at music event . I admit my ignorance in that regard , but it seem to I that legislation of this kind must be just as important for big music event such as concert — which , by the way , be often hold in stadium and other location that be also use for sporting event , such as Wembley — so why be we restrict ourselves to football ? I genuinely do not understand why this be see as just a football issue , although I suspect that it be because of the reaction to what happen at the Euros . surely we in this place must be able to use our wit to say , " it have be a problem in this location " , while also anticipate that it could well be a problem at similar event , whether sporting or musical . may I just ask the hon . Gentleman and the Minister , who I know will continue to take a great interest in all these issue anyway , and also the shadow Minister , to give this some thought ? if we be so adamant that the Bill be necessary in this regard — and I think it be ; as I have say , I support it , with a couple of reservation — I urge all those with far more influence than I to think about whether we could introduce similar legislation , if necessary , to cover other big sporting event and perhaps music event as well . I thank the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) for introduce the Bill . he have do a great job in set out the reason for it , and I be happy to say that I support it . my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) ask a couple of question , and I want to ask a couple in a similar vein , but let I first explain why I think the Bill be important . People who aggressively try to enter event without ticket be not just put their fellow attender at risk , but potentially put the steward at risk . at the Euros , as we see , extra security staff be draft in . they be often people who have have only a basic level of training from their company , and when face with ten if not hundred of people , individual who be try to do the right thing and protect the establishment be put at risk during those event — apart from the potential risk to attender pose by overcrowding . let we never forget the tragedy that be Hillsborough , although , as we now know , it be not connect with the issue of non - ticket fan . large group of people in small space be a frightening prospect , and can lead to a tragic loss of life . I want everyone to understand that we need to look out for those who be seek to uphold the rule , as well as those who have pay for their ticket . there be , however , a couple of exception that I hope can be explore in Committee . I do not think that either the hon . member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) or the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) subscribe to the Manchester United fan club , as I do . I suspect that the hon . member for Nottingham North may even be a Manchester City fan , which probably explain his positive reaction to the — totally under control — Newport game that take place early in the season . arguably , be a United fan in recent year have be a triumph of loyalty over pleasure or enjoyment . just as an aside , let I say that , not so long ago , my father and I take my nephew to watch United at Old Trafford and we discover that he be the fifth generation of Fletcher to do so . I can be accuse of be very many thing , but a glory supporter be not one of they . United be experiment with change ticket from paper or plastic card to qr code . although this be happen only in the premier league , it be likely to roll down to the low league . quite famously , there be a problem with that ticketing system — member can look back at the press report . I will make a confession to the House , in the spirit of the admission make by the hon . member for Cardiff West . I be in possession of a valid ticket for that game , but the failure of the system lead to a huge number of fan be lock out . there be a big press of people , so I , along with hundred of other , hop over the turnstile . I do so partly in fear of the crush of people behind I . they could not hear what be go on and do not understand why people be not flow through the turnstile as normal . perhaps the Minister could comment on that incident . I seek assurance that we will not criminalise people such as myself who , although in possession of a valid ticket , do not make the most legitimate entry to the ground , but do so through genuine reason of fear for personal safety — and a desire to watch United lose again . I would be grateful if the Minister could respond to that and provide some assurance that that consideration will be take on board should the Bill reach Committee stage , as I hope it do . finally , be a member of the Stretford end , I hear chat and noise . in particular , I have hear how people have be accidentally catch up in football ban order . let I just say this for the record : it be absolutely abhorrent when people go to football game to cause trouble , to have fight and to put people at risk . football have transform over my lifetime . in the past , child could not be take to football because it be not safe for they , but that be no long the case . it be now a family - friendly activity that people can enjoy . it have some edge to it , but I do not want to see that go . football be almost the acceptable face of the Iron Age tribal system writ large . I think it be Arrigo Sacchi who say it be the most important of the not important thing . there have be instance of people who be just bystander to trouble be sanction by club or give a football ban order . if we be seek to extend those order from people commit violence to people try to get into ground without a ticket , which I agree be important , be we confident that those who both evaluate and issue those football ban order uphold the level and standard of evidence that we would expect to see as part of a law ? who have the final say ? what be the mechanism of appeal ? we need some clarity on that . I understand the point that the hon . member for Cardiff be make about include car park , especially at out - of - town stadium , but what threshold of evidence would be use ? be somebody hop into a car park to get an autograph the same as somebody aggressively try to knock down a turnstile ? how do we make sure that we find the right level of justice ? my hon . friend be make a very serious and a very good point . on a more humorous level , could it not be argue that , give the way that Manchester United have be play in the past few year , a ban order would be a reward rather than a punishment ? when my hon . friend next come over to watch Manchester United at Old Trafford , we should make sure to check his passport as he come over the top . Manchester United be one of the great and most important club . it be important to remember the Busby Babes and this year ' s important anniversary of the Munich air disaster . however , I concede that future peak be to be scale by our magnificent team , and I will support they all the way . let I give an honourable mention to Sir Jim Ratcliffe , who this week get final confirmation of his purchase and support of the club . on a serious note , how be Leeds do these day ? I ' m a Bradford City man . never mind . good leave there . I have always enjoy the colour of the kit . Mustard be such an aggressive colour to go to battle in . Semi - seriously , my hon . friend make a very good point — football be about fun , banter and local pride . People seek to aggressively get into ground without ticket put all that enjoyment at risk . I support this legislation , but perhaps we could get some clarity to make sure that the enthusiastic kid , as my hon . Friend say , or perhaps the overenthusiastic tourist , be not catch up by it . crucially , if someone be catch by this law and want to appeal , can we make sure that they get the right level of justice ? go to see Manchester United may not be the most edify experience at the moment , but be accidentally ban for life would be a travesty , and we should make sure that do not happen . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak for the Opposition . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) on his Bill , which I support . he be a skilled parliamentarian , but he have demonstrate — as the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) do , who be no long in his place — that the good " skill " be to be draw in the private Member ' s ballot . it be also a skill to choose a Bill that have a chance of succeed . keep it narrow , short and cheap be generally a good way to do that . my hon . friend ' s Bill have pass those test . Britain do sport event really well . we have great infrastructure and stadium , and volunteer flock to be part of those event . who could forget that , have see the olympic game ? whether it be the Olympics , the champion league final or game every weekend , we do they very well . we also do football well than any other place on the planet . a huge part of brand Britain be the global tv product , but the beauty be in the fact that every weekend — this weekend will be no exception — for the premier league alone , half a million people make journey , short , long and in some case very long , across the country to see their team , share allegiance , perhaps swear at other fan and sing song with incredible creativity . there be a real beauty in that ; it be very british and very special . those two thing together — that success in hold major event , and that love of football do well — make what we see in 2021 at the final of Euro 2020 even more shocking . we do not want to see 3 , 000 to 5 , 000 people jib in , as my hon . Friend say . it be dangerous . as we read in the independent report , it be very lucky that great harm be not cause . what my hon . friend propose be a good , smart way of address that . I want to cover some of the point make by he and other hon . member . what my hon . Friend say on the radio early about the deterrent effect be exactly right , and what he predict be likely to be the case . it can not be overstate that the maximum fine of £ 1 , 000 be a lot of money by anyone ' s standard . the ban order in particular will get people ' s attention , because that be a really serious sanction . for a fan , support their club become a big part of their identity . for a fan who go to match at home and away , that be a huge part of their lifestyle and involve their friendship group . that get people ' s attention , so it be a good sanction . let I address a couple of point make by the hon . member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) . I share a lot of his view when it come to sport ; he know what he be talk about . he be a match - go fan , and he talk a lot of sense on sport . his point about scrutiny on Fridays be important . we owe it to our constituent to perform that scrutiny as well as we can , whatever day of the week it be , because the intention be for these Bills to become the law of the land . we always have to keep in mind the test : hard case make bad law . I always think about that , particularly on Fridays , but I think the hon . Gentleman have pass the test today . the hon . Gentleman make a point about un - intend consequence . propose new clause 1A ( 3 ) to the Football ( Offences ) Act 1991 should give quite a lot of comfort in that regard . the explanatory note be very comprehensive about what the Bill be not intend to do , and certainly give I comfort , particularly about propose new subsection 3 ( b ) ( i ) . a 17 - year - old use an under - 16 ' s ticket be a breach of term and condition , and they probably should not do it , but the law should not criminalise that individual . the club can manage that with a sanction , which be likely to be a short internal ban . that be the right level , so I think that the right balance have be find . I might disagree with the hon . gentleman on the cheekiness point , though . these be big stadium ; as the hon . member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) say , we be talk about large concentration of human being in one place . the capacity at Wembley be 90 , 000 . the hon . member for Shipley and I may agree a lot on sport , but I suspect we disagree quite a lot on health and safety legislation — on its effectiveness and necessity . in this space , health and safety be exceptionally important , and for a stadium to be even one person over capacity be dangerous . I agree with his sentiment that someone just try their luck should not have a criminal record and face a really significant sanction , but we should not encourage such behaviour in general . People need to know that it be dangerous , and that they should not do such thing . turn to the hon . member for Shipley ' s point about breadth , my view be that the approach take in the Bill be good and right for football ; it follow that in those other example he mention , it would be good and right , too . I understand and agree with the approach that my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West have take : keep the Bill narrow and base it on legislation that be already on the statute book be the good way to ensure that the Bill succeed . go broad may imperil the Bill as a venture , but it be incumbent on both the Government and the opposition to look at what approach could be take to broaden it . of course , we will need to follow the evidence and consult relevant organisation , but the basic principle apply : people enter an event for which they have no ticket , which be a really dangerous health and safety breach , be bad , whether at the football or elsewhere . as the hon . member for Shipley point out , football fan often get a rough ride ; they should not be unduly single out . I think everyone have say that , but we should make that point . the contribution of the hon . member for South Ribble again show the cultural hegemony of football , and its importance in british life . the first conversation that I have with she , near the doorway to the Chamber , be about football . it be a very pleasant way to be welcome into the behind - the - scene bipartisanship that be not always visible to the public . I think it be important to get that on the record , even if the hon . Gentleman do support totally the wrong football team . I absolutely agree . my friendship with the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) come about because she go to City , as I do — that be something we talk about — and as do the hon . member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) . in fact , I can name every City fan in Parliament with absolute certainty , and I reckon I could do pretty well at name everybody ' s team , although not that of the right hon . member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be look forward to this . I be absolutely shocked that the hon . Gentleman be not an avid follower of the Tonbridge Angels . there we go . I will resist the temptation to ask the right hon . member who their leave back be , because I think that could expose he . I risk the wrath of my colleague on the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton ( Graham Stringer ) , if I do not mention that he be a United fan . I can name similar miscreant on our Benches very well . my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) be the first who spring to mind . football be part of our cultural life . it be part of the bond that bring we together . that be why it be important that it be safeguard , and do properly and safely . I think quite a lot about the point that the hon . member for South Ribble make about security staff , and I will talk later about recent experience at football that have really concern I . those staff , who be generally not permanent employee of the club — they be probably third - party contractor — and not necessarily well pay , be in dangerous circumstance . frankly , I worry less about those near the pitch than those who have to steward near the toilet . again , I will talk about that shortly . the hon . Lady make important point about what the Bill be and be not design to deter , and she use her own example . we can take comfort from the fact that she would have have a defence under propose new section 1A ( 2 ) of the 1991 Act , as she have a ticket . as she say , that be not a desirable way for entry to happen , but she would not have commit an offence under the Bill , which speak to the effectiveness of its drafting . in closing , it be important that we do not demonise football fan . I be no match - go fan , though I be for a bit . I think we be all legacy fan , though I do not take kindly to that term . however , my love of Manchester City be a huge part of my life and personality . my wife might say it be a much big part of it than it ought to be . from the third tier to the champions league final , I have be there and see it all . every so often , on my social medium feed — I apologise in advance to the hon . member for South Ribble — the i̇ lkay G ü ndo ğ an goal in last year ' s FA cup final will pop up , and I can not go past it ; I be incapable of do that . I will watch it at least half a dozen time , because it be just such a great moment . football fan be have a tough time . they be mess around with kick - off time , and be ask to take long journey . city fan will be at Bournemouth on Saturday for a game that will end at nearly 8 o ' clock at night , and then have to get back to Manchester . that be very difficult . there be also still some stigmatisation , which be not good . some of these challenge be present in other sport , too , so it be important that football fan be not single out . I think that we have find the right balance , but there be an issue come down the line that either this Government or a future Government will have to address : some of the thing that be happen at football match . what happen at that Euros final do not happen in isolation . social medium can skew our perception of these thing , but we see video that show that behaviour be change . as I say , this year , I have witness some thing in toilet , both away at Brentford and at home to Chelsea , that really shock I — illegal act , generally centre around drug . poor steward be leave to try to deal with that . there be behaviour at football match that should not be condone . People go to have fun , and we know that they be go to shout , swear and drink . all that be fine , but the law of the land must still apply , whether in public or in the toilet of a football stadium . it behove we to look at some of that , but what we do must be evidence - base , and we must work with the Football Supporters Association , which do such good work , to ensure that intervention be proportionate . the Bill be absolutely a proportionate intervention , and I give it my full support . it be a huge honour to be here under your chairship , Madam Deputy Speaker , and a huge pleasure to speak about a Bill on what I must admit be not what I would have immediately think be my specialist subject . resign ! hang on — that be a bit harsh . the Bill raise very important security consideration , so it have be an enormous pleasure to read about the Bill and the impressive work do by the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) . the debate have show quite simply that the passion in the House for what have always be know as the beautiful game twin with the passion for it in our country . though it do not always attract the affection of everybody in the Chamber — I know that I disappoint some in the Tonbridge Angels when I say that , though many other sport club be obviously spare the pain of my support — it really do bring people together . when travel or serve overseas , I be often touch by the fact that a community of Brits from any part of our country could immediately find an easy conversation and bond over various football team , which some may support and other may vigorously and majestically oppose . I do not know why I find myself look at my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) , as a Manchester United fan , but for some reason Manchester United seem to come up quite a lot as a divisive subject . like the Minister , I have live and work around the world . he make a humorous point about the opportunity for bonding , but I would say that it happen not just with Brits . I live and work in Africa : at that time , the first word out the mouth of people there be " Bobby Charlton " and the second word be " David Beckham " . although " jumper for goalpost " be often use and can be a trite phrase , I have have conversation with people whose language I could speak not a jot , but we be unite by the language of football . do the Minister agree and be that perhaps something he have experience ? funnily enough , I agree that it be something I have witness ; I have always struggle to join the conversation . I recently find myself in New York at the funeral of Henry Kissinger , and a few people there be discuss his passion for Arsenal football club and ask I about the late season in London football . I have to confess that I find myself slightly want for word , but it be an environment in which many other be able to supply they , so I be delighted to stay silent as the prowess of the various football team be discuss . as we be discuss Arsenal , among the research I have be do into the Bill , it turn out that Cardiff City win the FA cup in 1927 by beat Arsenal , which be a remarkable achievement . one - nil . one - nil . I believe Hughie Ferguson be the goal scorer — there you go ; it ' s amazing what you can get help with if you ask the right question , isn ' t it ? that game be on St George ' s day as well . how be that for a triple ? it be absolutely true that football bind people together around the world . the number of conversation that one can have travel and meet head of State , Heads of Government , Ministers , official — and , indeed , taxi driver and folk around the world — be extraordinary , because football really do unite . that be why the Bill be so important . I will start with one of the point raise by the hon . member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) raise , when he ask , " why do this apply only to football and not other sport ? " the reality be that football be hugely dominant in term of sporting appearance and interest in the United Kingdom . it be clear that , over the past few decade , football have dominate that sport appeal for spectator . it have be so dominant and , sadly , that have cause problem . I do not want to blame fan — that would not be right — but when large crowd gather , there be challenge with manage those crowd . sadly , other sport be yet to attract quite the same interest . I understand the point the Minister make , but last year at the grand national at Aintree , we see lot of people enter the racecourse without a ticket whose only purpose be to cause as much destruction and misery as possible , and it lead to quite a lot of disorder . I could be wrong , but my understanding be that nobody have be punish for that particular outrage and carnage , which also lead to animal welfare issue . I gently say to he that this issue apply to more than just football , and if he want to look for another sport , horserace — what happen at the grand national at Aintree last year and may well happen again this year — would be a good case in point . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that point ; I will certainly look into it . I will ensure that we have a proper scrub of other sporting event that might qualify . the point I be make be that the vast majority of such situation be football event , but he be right that there be standalone sporting event , like Aintree , that attract huge crowd as a one - off . I be delighted to be at the fantastic Market Rasen ground and at Lingfield not long ago , but the reality be that the crowd be not quite the same . it be not quite the same pressure that my hon . friend describe , but I take his point and he be right to make it . the hon . member for Cardiff West have make an extraordinary effort to bring together hon . member from across the House and to ensure that previous work be summarise into this short Bill to keep fan safe . I be very grateful that he have do that because , as member have demonstrate , the word he have choose have reach across the House and united people . when we think about our own sporting event , we know that those precious moment of family time can be threaten by individual who might disrupt they . the hon . Gentleman carefully make the point that automatic ban be not within the scope of the Bill . such ban can be issue only by court follow a conviction for a football - relate offence and be cover by other legislation . in reality , the Bill be constrain . as my hon . friend the Member for Shipley say , the key to good legislation be to write it in a way that work — not so that it expand — and this be a tight piece of legislation that do exactly what it be suppose do . the Bill will not do some of the thing that be fear . my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble raise a question about whether it would criminalise those who be in possession of a valid ticket , as she be in her leapfrogging day . it certainly will not do that . those who be in possession of a valid ticket be free to enter a ground and should be able to access the ground . the fact that the turnstile do not work really be a test of her athletic , not of the law . I be delighted to say that I have no doubt that she would vault it again be the same situation to arise . a question be ask about whether an offence be commit only if a person be attempt to attend a football match . the Bill do not cover those try to get into pub or car park unless they be part of the control zone . as we all know , some football stadium have a control zone ; other do not . anybody who have be to the Army and Navy rugby match will know that the car park be the most important part of that control zone . in fact , I have have the great privilege over many year of attend the Army and Navy rugby match — I have be on half a dozen to a dozen occasion — and in that time I be proud to say that I have watch 15 minute of rugby in total . although I should acknowledge that it be a security nightmare , it be the most extraordinary reunion and the car park of Twickenham stadium become a gathering of people who have not see each other since Iraq , Afghanistan or wherever it might be . it be extraordinary how many formerly terrify sergeant major or general seem to be somewhat more friendly shortly before kick - off — I be sure it have absolutely nothing to do with extremely generous sponsorship of Pimm ' s , Greene King or any of the other supplier who ensure those event go with the passion and drive hon . member would anticipate . on a more serious point , the Minister have prompt I to think more about the subject of car park . maybe I be dwell on this too much , but if somebody have a valid match ticket but do not have a valid car park ticket , would they be commit an offence ? the Bill say that an offence be commit only if they do not have a match ticket at the time of entry , so it seem to I that they may have a match ticket but they could still be try to enter a place that they be not entitle to enter . I just wonder whether that be by design or a problem in the Bill that need to be iron out . at the risk of be correct by official , I be go to say that clearly this be about the match ticket , not about the car park ticket . the reason be that the match ticket allow access to the stadium — to the event — and that be what be be criminalise . the access to the car park , as long as it be not within the control zone or an area that would otherwise be impermissible without a match ticket , be not cover by the Bill . a car park ticket can usually , mostly , be buy later . in this circumstance , we be not seek to criminalise that . we be seek to make sure that the Bill allow those who have a valid right of access to the event to get into the event without allow those who think they have ground for disruption , tailgating or whatever it may be to exploit a loophole in the law to get away with jump over a wall , push through turnstile or whatever it may be . the Minister be be very generous , and his explanation make a great deal of sense . but if he wish to come to Bradford City on any match day , as part of his research for the Bill , he would be very welcome . I will let he come with I and I will make sure he have a valid ticket so that he do not fall foul of the legislation . what he would find at Bradford City be that there be limited car parking , which be often at a premium and people would very much like to take advantage of it . there might be an issue with lot of people try to tailgate in and barge their way into the car parking . even though they have a match ticket , it would still cause quite a problem , but they would not fall foul of the Bill because they have a match ticket . I would be delighted to take up my hon . friend ' s invitation . I have never see football play in Bradford — neither have he ! I will ignore the contribution from the hon . member for Cardiff West , who be very disparaging about Bradford City . I be sure Bradford City would offer a fantastic afternoon and I would very much enjoy it . I simply can not believe that my hon . friend would not be back a winner , give his reputation , so I will stay silent on that accusation . the Bill deliberately do not go into car parking . as my hon . friend will be well aware , in many area car parking be very different . some stadium have car parking available and some have car parking on the street or in neighbouring car park which would be cover by local government ordinance and so on . it would add complication and not clarity to the Bill . to his eternal point , Occam ' s razor be to get to the heart of the matter ; he would rightly be the first critic of any Bill that start to be expansive and to look like it might include supermarket car park , or indeed any other kind of car park . that be why the Bill be write and draft as tightly as it be , and why so many of we support it — the Bill have give we the space to focus on that part of the offence that be actually important . the Bill have be very carefully draft to set out this new offence of unauthorised entry or attempt unauthorised entry to designate football match in England and Wales . in practice , " designate football match " really mean elite football match . for these purpose , that do include Manchester United — [ Laughter . ] the Bill will also enable a court to impose a football ban order against a person convict of this offence . ban order provide an effective tool to combat football - relate disorder by prevent disruptive individual from attend regulated match for between three and 10 year . I would like to pay my own tribute to Baroness Casey and her extraordinary work , not just on this issue , but in reform and review various other aspect of our national life that have require attention . her independent review of the appalling disorder that occur during the Euro 2020 final result in a clear recommendation that action need to be take to deter the practice of tailgating , which be the phenomenon that we have be cover of a ticketless person follow a legitimate entrant into the stadium . of course , the Bill be draft in this way because tailgating be not the only problematic behaviour . there be many other route to attempt entry into football match , such as jump over wall , which we have see at some stadium , or hang down from building and jump through window — we have occasionally see video of that happen abroad . that be extremely concern , not least because it can lead to enormous personal harm and can encourage people to take extremely unwise risk . it can also lead to a crush within the building that could cause harm not just to fan but to those work in the stadium . as we know , stadium these day be major business , and many employ a large number of people on match day . estimate suggest that somewhere in the region of 3 , 000 to 5 , 000 england fan without ticket gain entry to the Euro 2020 final , largely through mass force entry . witness speak of be terrify by their reckless and aggressive behaviour . despite my own lack of passion in this regard , I have take my child to football match and have enjoy the day with they . I must admit that my child be much more impressed with the game than I ever be , but I enjoy the experience very much . the opportunity to see it through their eye be a great blessing ; I find it enormously warm . a very modern parent . thank you very much . it would be concern — this be why the Bill be so important — if football be close off to family because people feel threaten and wish to keep their kid away from such event . like they use to be . exactly — my hon . friend correctly point out that they use to be . I suspect that that be one of the reason we be not encourage to attend when I be a child , despite my uncle ' s great passion for Tottenham Hotspur . in fact , happy birthday to he . it be his birthday today — he be in the other place , so maybe if we shout loudly enough he will hear it . the reality be that at that point in our national life , football be disrupt by significant violence . indeed , some area appear to be almost lawless . I be very grateful not only to the Football Association but to police force around the United Kingdom and the various organisation that contribute to make football safe . even at the Tonbridge Angels , which be not traditionally a hotbed of dissent , the family welcome be remarkable — that be extremely important . there be other unauthorised method of entry at football match , range from surreptitious entry — include , as the hon . member for Cardiff West say , bribe club staff — to various form of deception . I be therefore very pleased that the Bill seek to make all form of unauthorised or attempt entry an offence . that be eminently sensible , give that all attempt at unauthorised entry draw upon stadium security resource and can result in individual with dangerous disruptive intent gain access to the stadium and to spectator , and that overcrowding have health and safety risk and implication . this be therefore an important change in the law . it be also right that the Bill include not just the entrance point but the outer perimeter security . as the hon . Gentleman set out clearly , it be about prevent a concertina effect , whereby pressure on one area have repercussion on other . he be correct that the Bill set out carefully why that be so . we can not tolerate decent , law - abide football fan be leave frightened or distressed , and neither would it be acceptable for football stadium to become unsafe because of a selfish minority . the Government be clear that the safety of those attend sporting event be of the high importance , and it be imperative that football fan be able to enjoy the sport safe in the knowledge that those who attempt to cause disorder will be deal with swiftly . the Bill will help to achieve that , which be why we support it . it be right and proper that those who engage in unacceptable criminal behaviour face the full force of the law , and the introduction of a new football - specific offence will send a deterrent message to would - be perpetrator . the measure enable the court to impose football ban order against offender , and I remind the House that football ban order have historically prove successful in prevent know troublemaker from continue to offend , and in deter other from offend . as such , the Government wholeheartedly support their use in the context of unauthorised entry to match . the Minister speak with great passion , and I know this subject be close to his heart . who among we have not enjoy a matinee performance by England Rovers at the Oval ? I must press he on a technical detail raise by the shadow Minister . who play leave back for Tonbridge Angels ? discretion be important at such moment . as my hon . friend will be aware , Tonbridge Angels have recently buy a few new player . it be far too early for I to start pick the team , which be the manager ' s job after all . he would not thank a Minister of the Crown for step on his hallowed turf . it may be helpful for member to be aware that both the police and the Football Association be similarly supportive of the Bill and have contribute helpfully . once again , I thank the hon . member for Cardiff West for introduce the Bill . I also thank the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) and the Opposition for their approach . I hope the Bill set an example that be adopt by other Assemblies , which seem appropriate give the importance of football in the national life of Scotland and Northern Ireland . I thank everyone who have contribute to this debate . this important measure will ensure that the perpetrator of these disruptive and dangerous offence face justice , and it should provide a strong deterrent effect . I therefore join the hon . member for Cardiff West in urge the House to get behind the Bill . with the leave of the House , I will briefly sum up . I thank all hon . member who have contribute and intervene . this debate have give an extremely useful airing to the issue relate to Bill . the hon . member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) raise some very valid point , some of which be subsequently address in intervention by I , the shadow Minister and the Minister . I be sure we will delve far into those point in Committee . I thank all member who contribute to the debate . the hon . member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) be obviously very knowledgeable about support football , even when it be painful . we also hear intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) , who be now sit in the Whip ' s seat , have move from the Back Benches during the debate . the Bill have have a good airing , for which I thank everyone . I thank in particular the Minister and the shadow Minister . the Minister mention the Football Association , which cover England . the Football Association of Wales have also be very supportive of the Bill . all member of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee have support the Bill , which feature in the Committee ' s report . I also thank the civil servant ; the Clerks ; you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; Mr Speaker , who be here early ; Mr Deputy Speaker ; and everyone else in the room . the whip on both side of the House have be extremely helpful . and I thank Mary in the Members ' Tea Room for support the Bill . that be a fitting end to the hon . Gentleman ' s speech . we be always thankful to Mary and everyone else who look after we in the Members ' Tea Room , especially on a Friday . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . community and suspend Sentences ( Notification of Details ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be delighted to rise to bring this Bill to the House today . it be an important but focus Bill that will amend the 2020 sentencing code to create a duty on offender to notify the responsible officer of any change of name or contact detail if they be sentence to a community order , a suspend sentence order , a youth rehabilitation order or a referral order . the Bill will place a new duty on offender who be serve a sentence in the community and who be be supervise by the probation service or a youth offend team to ensure that any change of name or contact detail be notify to the relevant responsible officer . that capture not just any formal legal change of a name , but the use of an online alias . offender will need to notify their responsible officer of any change as soon as be practicable . my Bill will apply to adult and child offender alike , so that we can create some form of consistency across all offender who be on licence . importantly , it will extend to offender serve community sentence . in 2022 , secondary legislation be pass require offender on licence to inform their probation officer if they change their name or contact detail . the Bill will help to ensure consistency across the sentencing framework and that offender serve community sentence have their risk manage effectively . for those offender who be serve community order , youth rehabilitation order and referral order , the requirement contain in the Bill will last for the whole duration of the order while the offender remain supervise by probation or their youth offend team , until it reach the end date set by the court , or be otherwise terminate . for suspend sentence order , this requirement will last for the period when the offender must keep in touch with probation . once the offender be no long require to keep in touch with probation or the youth offend team , this requirement will also end . failure to comply with the duty will be treat the same as failure to comply with the requirement of the order . an offender could be take back to court . when an order be return to court , the court can make the requirement of the order more onerous , impose a fine or even sentence the individual to custody . the management of offender in the community be of the utmost importance to protect people in Newport West and across the United Kingdom and to reduce reoffende . it be vital that probation and youth offending team have the information require to be able to effectively manage offender in the community , and the ability to take swift enforcement action where need . the Bill will improve the ability of probation and youth offend team to monitor offender . it will help to protect the public by ensure that while an offender be serve a sentence in the community , the responsible officer have the information they need to keep an eye on that individual . as I have note , that requirement already apply to offender release from custody , so I believe it be important to ensure that the same requirement apply to offender serve sentence in our community . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on safeguarding in faith community , I have hear harrowing account of offender who have change their name — legitimately , at present — by deed poll and then go on to commit harrowing offence again and again . that be not acceptable . the people of Newport West elect I to this place in April 2019 , and since then , I have sit through many a Friday sitting , listen to detailed and , on occasion , lengthy opening remark on Second Reading . in the hope of get this Bill speedily through to the next stage of its journey in this House with support from colleague on all side , I will bring my remark to a close shortly . in support the Bill , this House have an opportunity to improve the ability of probation and youth offend team to monitor and support offender in the community as effectively as possible . most importantly for I , it allow we all to well protect the people who send we here — the british people . keep our people safe , from Newport West to North Down and from Newcastle upon Tyne Central to North Devon , be our most important responsibility as member of Parliament . with that in mind , I urge colleague from all part of the House to give the Bill their full support today . I be very pleased to be support the Bill introduce by the hon . member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) . I be what would be typically refer to as a Tory wet , which mean that I do not think lock up everybody be always a panacea for everything . community centre have an important role to play ; not only do we have a particularly crowded prison estate as it be , but the prison estate be not the good place for the rehabilitation of offender who have short sentence because their crime be their first offence or relatively minor . if we be talk about a proper lag or villain , then let we lock they up for 20 year , but fundamentally we should be try to get people into the habit of improve their life . we should be create productive citizen . I support the Bill very much ; the hon . Lady have alight on an important point . when somebody leave a custodial sentence , there be rule and regulation in place to ensure that they do not change their identity or somehow get around the system in order to reoffend , although there will be some who go on to reoffend . there will sadly also be those who go on to reoffend after have have one of these non - custodial sentence . by apply to they the same regime that apply to people who have be in the prison estate , we be not introduce a new special punishment and they be not under any extra burden . they be be ask to comply with a perfectly sensible regime . I therefore very much welcome what the hon . Lady have do . we will all know of at least one or two heartbreaking case from our constituency where the system have not work quite as it should . when I first start in this place , I meet the family of a constituent who have be murder by somebody who be out on parole . there have be a similar issue with identity : document have be lose ; meeting be not take place . this man have basically just disappear into the ether of the system . I can not guarantee that , have the safeguard in the Bill be in place , it would have save my constituent ' s life , but it certainly would have make it much less likely that a little boy be leave without his dad and parent be leave without their son . I congratulate the hon . Lady on introduce this Bill , and I look forward to support it . I , too , thank the hon . member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) for bring this important Bill to the House today , and I congratulate she on its Second Reading . what my constituent in Truro and Falmouth want and care about above all else be the ability to live in a safe and hospitable community . the way that we deal with those who break that safety or our law and disrupt our town and village be incredibly important to they ; it be one of the most important thing that they need to feel safe , and it come up time and again when I be out and about talk to my community . however , not everybody who commit a crime be consider dangerous , and I be therefore pleased that we have level of punishment that be appropriate to each crime . before I go on to what this Bill might mean to the people of Truro and Falmouth and Cornwall and beyond , I want to say a little about woman prisoner and offender and why the Bill will be so important to they . in Cornwall , the near woman ' s prison be his Majesty ' s Prison Eastwood Park , which be in south - west Gloucestershire . for those who be not from the south - west , that may sound close , but in actual fact it be nearly 200 mile away from Cornwall . a low - level woman offender who happen to have a small baby or child , or be pregnant , will potentially have to move 200 mile away from her child . court understand that these day , and they want to keep woman who be not a danger to society nearer their family . level up the submitting of name and contact detail , as offender would if they be in prison , be therefore another safeguard that court will have in their back pocket in case where they wish to give a low - level sentence to somebody who , for whatever reason , they need to keep track of . maternity imprisonment impact an average of 17 , 000 child each year . by keep criminal with a sentence of less than 12 month in the community , we be able to prevent hundred of child from be bring into our prison and grow up in those unsuitable and unstable environment . it be much well for child across the south - west to live in their community and grow up with a parent who have clearly give back to the community , albeit through an impose sentence . make clear connection between crime , the community and the local who be affect mean that both parent and child will be more aware of the impact of crime . it be no coincidence that our police and crime commissioner , Alison Hernandez , be lead the charge in Devon & Cornwall police with combine treatment order , which deal directly with mental health issue , alcoholism and drug addiction for those with community sentence . they keep people out of toxic prison environment where such flaw be likely to be exploit and make unmanageable , and instead support the criminal in the community with regular treatment and programme . tackle these factor be essential to reduce reoffende rate and repair the route of addiction that may have contribute to people find themselves in a position where lawbreaking become an option . help to rebuild life be the good way of ensure that they continue to feed back into their local community . the south - west be the first region to secure funding for mental health treatment requirement as part of a community order . that be because we work as a team in the area — again , lead by Alison Hernandez . the work of the Plymouth team in particular , as part of the original pilot scheme , have be hold up as good practice to the rest of the country . there be an opportunity for community payback to expand , hopefully under the Immediate Justice funding of about £ 500 , 000 that will come to Devon & Cornwall later this year . our police and crime commissioner be determined to get offender fill pothole . again , we will be work as a region , and we think that it will be rewarding work , build on the precedent achieve in Devon where it have be do by volunteer . People may think that this do not matter to life in general , but community order be see as be important to the community in other way . in Cornwall everyone know everyone else , and if someone be see to be have to pay back to their local community , there be a slight issue of peer pressure . People do not want to be see do this , so it can be use as a deterrent . it be different in city , where people do not know other in their locality to the same extent . St Agnes parish council , one of the proactive parish council on the north coast of my constituency , have take advantage of payback scheme to improve local amenity . People have be sweep the library building , and litter - picking , weed and hedge - cut around the library car park and on the verge . they have be paint bench , cut back the ivy on building own by the parish council , clean noticeboard and bus stop , pressure - washing to deal with slippery pavement , paint toilet block and the lych - gate at the Garden of Rest , cut grass , paint the equipment in Beaconsfield play park , implement the installation of water pipe , and maintain the allotment site at Mount Hawke . those be really useful job , and fabulously innovative when parish council be strapped for cash . local people who have fall foul of the law but be not a danger to society be do something brilliant for the local community . however , as I say early , the Bill will level thing up so that these people be still recognise as be under a sentence , albeit not a custodial one . I hope that the Bill will also help those who be cover by Clare ' s law . People who be convict of domestic violence but not see as a danger to the rest of society be often not give custodial sentence , which be quite frustrating for I and for other in my position . under Clare ' s law they must be on a register , but sometimes , as we know , they change their identity and move to another part of the country or their locality . I should like to know from the Minister whether the Bill will help to strengthen Clare ' s law for those who might otherwise fall through the crack . this be a very useful little bill . it be hard to argue with any of it , and I be grateful to the hon . member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) for introduce it . when I be read about the Bill , I immediately think of a case that I have encounter a couple of year ago — I be already a Member of Parliament at that time — which resonate with element of it . that case originate in an email from an individual . the name that come up on my computer be different from the email address , which be itself different from the name use in the sign - off . let we just say that the email in question be not necessarily sympathetic to what I think be the fine work that I be do in North Norfolk . as a fairly nice chap , which I consider myself to be , I write back to the individual and say , " of course , I will meet you . " I do my own bit of research — MPs ' security be very pertinent at the moment — to discover , from the three different name that I be give , who that individual be . I do not want to give too much away — do so would reveal that person ' s identity — but I find out who they be , and they have serve a prison sentence for a crime and be now out . I shall not go into the nature of their crime , but it immediately ring alarm bell , and I contact the police to request their presence at my surgery . when read about the Bill , and how people on community sentence be weave into it , I think that that case be pertinent . there be individual out there who be hide behind alias — effectively try to be anonymous — to contact and meet mps and other public official , so this be a good Bill . it be ironic and incredible that in today ' s life , in which everything we do be track by our smartwatch , mobile phone and Alexa — other brand be out there — people can not be find . of course , if someone be use an alias and try not to be detect , those thing can clearly happen . one reason I think this Bill so important be that it remind I of the experience of my friend in the Probation Service . in his remark , will the Minister set out whether the Probation Service can cope with the additional workload require by the Bill ? tomorrow be the second anniversary of the russian invasion of Ukraine . a year ago , I take generator to Ukraine . it take about nine hour of solid driving to get from North Norfolk all the way across to Ukraine . when drive a Transit van that far , one get to know one ' s cab mate pretty well . I be sit with a friend who be a probation officer . after hour on end , when every other possible conversation between two bloke have be exhaust — many of which can not be repeat in the House — we start to talk about his life in the Probation Service . it make I realise just how tough and important a role that be . in my previous career — I will openly admit that I be an accountant — I have absolutely no idea about the criminal justice system , and do not until I become an MP . the comment from my hon . friend the Member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) about be a Tory wet be really interesting . I be probably a bit of a Tory wet , but I do not realise it . before I be an MP , I certainly be not , but now , have learn about the criminal justice system , I have far more awareness of just what the hard - work man and woman in our prison service do , and they be quite phenomenal in their role . after that small conversation about the Probation Service with my friend while travel to Ukraine a year ago , and with much more understanding of the criminal justice system today , I have far great awareness of and respect for what those man and woman do . my first trip of this year , on 3 January , when we be in recess , be a visit to HMP Bure , a category c man ' s prison in my constituency , right on the border . it be home to 643 prisoner and be run by Governor Rhoden and the other fine man and woman who work there . all the strand I have talk about today be conceptualise when I go on that visit , because I realise just how tough a job those work in prison do , and that rehabilitation be so important . I have be completely unaware of what those incredibly hard - work and decent man and woman do behind the scene . for a few hour , I get to see what prison life be like , what prisoner do and how their rehabilitation work . I admit that I have not take into account that I would see prisoner on bicycle mechanic course , art course and weld course , which prepare they for life outside prison , and give they a skillset , so that they can find employment . again , I want to place on the record — I have say it a few time — my thank to the hard - work man and woman at HMP Bure . they be not respect enough in society , or pay enough , for the hard work they do , and the condition be not always good . one of their big concern be their retirement age . there be campaign to lower it from 68 ; perhaps the Minister could comment on that . be it in the public ' s interest or fair that police officer retire at one age and prison officer at another , much old age , which be 68 for new intake ? these people be on their foot all day long , and often put themselves at high risk . in a civilised society , we need to look at their retirement age . I be astounded to hear that it take only nine hour to get from Norfolk to Ukraine , give that it take five hour to get from Westminster to Cornwall , but that be a different matter . I agree with all my hon . friend ' s point about prison officer . do he agree that ask somebody who need to use their physical strength in their job to work until they be 68 be often quite a big ask ? I do , which be why the retirement age need to be look at properly , in the context of the retirement age for those in similar role in society , such as police officer . get from Norfolk to Ukraine involve nine hour ' drive a day over about two and a half day — my apology if I do not make that clear . I go through Holland , Germany and elsewhere . it be a long way ; let I put it like that . I will finish there . I again thank the hon . member for Newport West for introduce a very interesting Bill . it feel like complete common sense , and I hope it be support . I be back again — this time on the Front Bench — for a third outing today . I apologise for my ubiquity . it be a pleasure to support this Bill , which be present by my hon . friend the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) . I congratulate she on her success in the private Member ' s Bill ballot . it really be a great day for the Welsh . by the sound of it , this will be the third bill from a Welsh Labour Member of Parliament to gain support from across the House and receive its second reading today . for those who say that mps from the devolved nation do not play a role in this place , the proof that they do be the fact that these three Bills have reach this stage today . I thank everyone across the House for their support for our Bills , and it be a pleasure to support my hon . friend ' s Bill from the Front Bench . I thank member who have contribute to the debate , include the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) , who , like I , have be on his foot a lot today , and the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) , who I would never have guess be an accountant in a previous life , as he reveal in the debate . he speak with a lot of compassion and sense , and he mention probation , which relate to a point that I want to make in my brief remark . twenty year ago — I be here — the last Labour Government introduce community order and suspend sentence order in their current form . they be design to be robust alternative to prison in case of less serious offending . it have be disappointing to note that the use of community sentence have decline sharply , particularly in the last decade , and particularly between 2012 and 2022 . in 2017 , a survey of magistrate find that over a third be not confident that community sentence be an effective alternative to custody , and two third be not confident that they cut crime . it be plain to see that more must be do to strengthen the confidence of the court and the public that sentence serve in the community be effective , appropriate and , above all , safe . that be particularly press give the Government ' s proposal in the Sentencing Bill — we be wait for Committee of the whole House , hopefully soon — for a new presumption that all sentence of less than a year will be suspend unless there be exceptional circumstance , such as the breach of a previous order , or a risk to an individual . the Bill before we make an important contribution to that effort . it will require offender serve community or suspend sentence to alert their probation officer or youth offend team if they change their name or contact detail . the question be how these necessary measure will be properly enforce while the Government continue to load more and more pressure on to the probation service , without give it any additional resource . sentence serve in the community can be effective only if there be a function probation service root in the area that can enforce sentence and keep offender on the right track . I be sure that the Minister can see that our probation service be already critically understaffed , undervalue and overstretch . probation workload be soar . almost 50 , 000 working day among probation staff have be lose to distress , with 68 % of probation officer rate their case load as unmanageable . More and more experienced prison officer , who be also mention , be leave the service , and there be over 1 , 000 vacancy for probation staff . a recent watchdog report warn that such understaffing be have a devastating effect on deliver the good outcome that the Bill be intend to support . in September , the annual report of his Majesty ' s inspectorate of probation say that 31 inspection of probation delivery unit have be complete since the probation service be reunify in 2021 , and only one unit be find to be good . the rest be rate either " require improvement " or " inadequate " . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newport West for bring forward the Bill and urge all member to support it as a necessary step forward . I challenge the Government to ensure that the probation service be give the resource that it need to ensure that the reform be successful , and that the public remain protect , as they and the court expect . I call on the Government to affirm their commitment to enforce the crucial measure in the Bill when it become law . I thank the hon . member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) for bring forward the Bill . I be grateful for the support of the Opposition . I will address some of the comment that the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) make , although I do not necessarily agree with his characterisation of the probation service . let I start with the main thrust of the Bill . it will place a new duty on offender who be serve a sentence in the community , and who be be supervise by a probation or youth offend team , require they to inform the responsible officer if they begin use a different name or change their contact information , include telephone number or email address . we have a separate youth justice system , but it be of equal if not great importance that youth offend team be able to keep tab on child and have the right information about they to do their job . we welcome the fact that this policy apply equally to offender of all age , and will create consistency across offender on licence and offender serve sentence in the community who be oversee by probation service or youth offend team . the offender will be require to comply with the requirement while their order be in effect and have not be revoke or discharge . for suspend sentence order , the requirement will last for the period for which the offender must keep in touch with probation . for offender serve community order , youth rehabilitation order and referral order , the requirement will last for the whole duration of the order , while the offender be supervise by probation or their youth offend team , until the end date set by the court be reach , or the order be otherwise terminate . sentencing in individual case be a matter for our independent judiciary , and the court have a broad range of sentence power to deal effectively and appropriately with offender . they can impose discharge , fine , community sentence , suspend sentence and imprisonment . this Government be clear that deliver public protection mean impose custodial sentence when the offence be so serious that custody be justify . it be worth note , however , that even when that threshold be meet , the court should consider whether a community sentence would be more suitable in a particular case . my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) talk about some of the challenge on the woman ' s prison estate , include the prison ' s distance from home . clearly , that be a factor that the judiciary can take into account . my hon . Friend also mention Clare ' s law . my understanding be that the Bill do cover those cover by that law , but I will double check , so that I do not mislead she or the House . I will write to she and place a copy of the letter in the House of Commons Library . in many case , there be persuasive evidence that suspend and community sentence can be more effective than short custodial sentence in reduce reoffende . More than half of people give a custodial sentence of less than 12 month reoffend within a year . for offender punish with suspend sentence order that be serve in the community , the reoffende rate be much low . I think that my hon . friend the Member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) be make that point when he say that sometimes prison do not work and , in fact , make thing bad . under our sentencing framework , there be the flexibility to choose from and balance a range of community - base requirement , such as unpaid work , drug and alcohol treatment , curfew and electronic monitoring , with the intent of punish the offender , ensure reparation to the community , and address any criminogenic — that be a new word for I — or rehabilitative need of the offender that might give rise to an increase likelihood of reoffende . rigorous community offender management be vital to build confidence in the order make , and to deliver effective rehabilitation while keep the public safe . the shadow Minister mention the probation service . I can reassure he that we share his commitment to make sure that the probation service be effective and be fund appropriately . we value its work , which be why we be invest an additional £ 155 million a year in the service , so that it can recruit record level of staff , and be invest up to £ 93 million in community payback as a way of compliment that . I would like to reassure my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) , who raise the same point . in December 2023 , recruitment number for band 4 probation officer be up 6 . 3 % on the previous year , and the number for band 3 probation officer be up 2 . 1 % over the same period . we be confident that our probation service can deal with this issue . however , I must point out that in the Bill , the duty be on the offender , not the probation service . colleague will see the word " duty of offender " repeat throughout the Bill . it be loud and clear that it be the responsibility of the offender to comply , and if they do not , they will have to bear the consequence . as well as the investment in the probation service , there have be £ 532 million invest through the Department of Health and Social Care to increase substance misuse treatment provision in all local authority in England . of course , that will be devolve in Wales . dedicated criminal justice staff have be recruit to increase the quality of treatment and assessment delivery . we believe that this approach dovetail with ensure that community sentence support people with other issue . the effectiveness of community sentence rely on probation and youth offend team be able to manage offender in the community successfully . that mean have the right information about they . we agree that the Bill help to strengthen the mean that probation and youth offend team service have at their disposal to monitor offender , but I reiterate that in the Bill , the duty rest with the offender . the Bill build on secondary legislation pass in 2022 , require offender on licence to inform their probation officer if they change their name or contact detail . we welcome the Bill from the hon . member for Newport West , and we will continue to do all we can to assist its passage . in my view , these provision be robust , and while the name or contact detail change could be for valid reason , they require any difference from what be be keep on file to be report . they capture not just formal , legal change of name by deed poll , but — for example — the use of an online alias , another issue that my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk highlight . as I have set out , we recognise the importance of ensure that the public be protect , that rehabilitation can be effective , and that there be confidence in non - custodial sentence . that mean ensure that offender manage in the community be be properly monitor by the probation service , with the ability for that service to take robust enforcement action where necessary . we agree that this Bill will make sure that our probation and youth offend team undertake that monitoring effectively by ensure that , while an offender be serve a sentence in the community , the responsible officer have the information that they need to keep tab on that individual . I will end by again congratulate the hon . member for Newport West on bring this Bill before the House . I be grateful to the official Opposition for their support of the Bill , and I place on record my thank to the official at the Ministry of Justice for assist the hon . Lady in draft it . with the leave of the House , I rise to close the debate . I thank everybody who have take part today for the atmosphere of co - operation and consensual politic — it be very different from what happen early this week . I start by thank the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) ; I agree with he that the " lock they up " philosophy be not always the way forward , and community sentence be a vital part of our punishment option . I be recently fortunate enough to go to Cardiff Prison with the Welsh Affairs Committee , where we see for ourselves prisoner who might be in for just seven day . seven day be not long enough to do anything useful in term of rehab or break the cycle of offending , so the point that the hon . Member make be very important . I thank the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) for her very important point about female offender and the distance involve . we do not have a single prison for woman in Wales — I be not say that we should have one but , like her constituent , those woman in Wales have a long way to travel . that mean woman be apart from their family . that be disruptive , and it be very costly to visit . if anyone be in any doubt about female prisoner , they should watch " Time " with Jodie Whittaker ; it be a very powerful series . the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) make an important point about alias and social medium . I be sure we have all have issue with people who have have different name on email ; it be a concern that I share . he also highlight the importance of staff work in the criminal justice system . I , too , pay tribute to those staff and thank they for all their effort . I thank the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) — I hope he can put his foot up on the plane to Dublin after this , because he have be very busy today . I also thank the Minister and the team in the Department . the Minister rightly highlight that the responsibility for report a change of detail be on the offender ; it be very important that we know that . finally , I thank the Whips , the Public Bill Office and Adam Jogee in my office . this week have see our Parliament — the mother of Parliaments — at a low point , but I wish the medium could be here to see and feel the atmosphere today . I be not a fan of adversarial politic ; I believe consensual politic be the way forward . that have be the case today , and I thank the House for it . I thank the hon . Lady for her remark . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Hereditary Titles ( Female Succession ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I think this be my third attempt to make progress on this issue in this House . I want to end the constitutional sexism that mean that an eighth of the seat in the other place be reserve for man only . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) , who try to introduce the Bill in March 2019 ; he be a champion of true equality . I pay tribute to Charlotte Carew Pole of Daughters ' right , who help to keep this just cause alive in this place . our former colleague Mary Macleod also try to bring in a similar Bill . even though this be this Bill ' s Second reading , it be not the second time that the issue have come up in the Commons , and it will keep come up until thing change . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way and for her good , kind word . this have be a long battle . I thank she for her persistence on the issue . it be a battle worth fighting , and I hope that she will continue to fight for it . do she agree that the issue we be discuss be completely and utterly unacceptable — one of the last bastion of unacceptable discrimination — and that this House should have nothing to do with it any long ? I thank my hon . friend for his endorsement . I agree , as do almost everyone I have meet , and I will go through some of that agreement in my remark . as someone who have have the privilege to be both a Foreign Office Minister and the chair of the British Group Inter - Parliamentary Union , I find it hard to meet parliamentarian from other part of the world and say that our unwritten constitution have create a great outcome for woman in this Parliament , because we still have this anomaly of inbuilt sexism . for over 70 year , our country be grace by a female sovereign , who be the perfect embodiment of the benefit of female succession . that be probably one of the reason why this place change the succession to the Crown in 2013 . the succession to the Crown Act 2013 mean that the firstborn child of Prince George will be in line to succeed he . the Act end male primogeniture for the Crown , but we leave undo any wide reform to make male primogeniture in the United Kingdom a part of history . as a result , in this very Parliament , a quarter of the way through the 21st century , we still have a situation where an eighth of the seat in the other place be reserve for man only . I will repeat that because I find it so shocking : an eighth of the seat in the upper House of this Parliament be permanently reserve for man only , through the system of reserve 92 seat for hereditary peerage . whatever our view of the other place or of hereditary peerage more generally — personally , I value the contribution that they make and the perspective they bring , but I understand that there be other point of view — I hope we can all agree that , in 2024 , embed sex discrimination be simply not acceptable . woman be be treat unfairly for no reason other than that they be woman . that have terrible real - world consequence . in fact , 13 % of the land in the UK be own by woman and 87 % be own by man . boy be twice as likely as girl to inherit the family business . if we can not change inequality at the top of our society , we will never be able to change inequality for the whole of our society . put simply , daughter should be treat the same as son across society . if it be good enough for succession to the Crown , it should be good enough for everyone else . hereditary peerage in the other place should go automatically to the eld child , which at the moment very rarely happen . I have listen to many point of view on this topic since I first introduce the Bill , and I have reflect on those comment and change it ; it be not the same Bill that I present last time . I hope that by make these change , I might persuade the Government to support it . clause 1 ( 1 ) provide that succession to hereditary peerage only do not depend on sex . I have deliberately narrow the scope of the Bill to focus on peerage because of the constitutional implication , as they be eligible to be elect to our upper House . on the register to stand as hereditary peer , there be 210 people who wish to put themselves forward should there be a by - election , and I understand that of those 210 people , only one be female . that demonstrate that it be already possible to be a female hereditary peer , but under the current system it do not happen as routinely as it do for man . unlike my early Bill , the scope do not include baronetcy and other title , in order to address the objection that the Bill have too wide a scope and would intrude into the private life of those 1 , 500 to 1 , 800 family who would never be in our legislature . I have do that with some reluctance , but in order to get the Government to support my Bill . clause 1 ( 2 ) would phase the provision in gradually and — again , listen to comment from people — when there be already an identify male heir in the line of succession , the change would take place at the next point of succession . that would gradually phase in the change , which be another concession I be make to get the Government ' s support . clause 2 make it clear , again in response to objection , that the Bill be entirely about the title and that any decision about will , property or inheritance be completely distinct from the issue of the title . clause 4 , again address an objection , would exempt the peerage and title that be still hold by the Crown . I have , therefore , go a long way in this new version of the Bill to address the concern I have hear . as a Conservative , I stand for equality of opportunity . we should want every person bear in this country to enjoy the same chance to make a difference , to thrive and to prosper . I personally will not give up until this posh glass ceiling be break . another concern that I hear raise be , " what about their lordship ? what might they do if , Lord forbid , this Bill should reach the other place ? " I want to put on record my gratitude to the Earl of Devon , no less , who have agree to take the Bill through the other place . fortunately , we have some recent comment from Hansard that reflect the mood in the other place , because on 9 February , Lord Northbrook secure a second reading of his succession to Peerages and Baronetcies Bill , which take a different approach ; it would allow female succession only if no man be available — no comment need . Lord Northbrook say , " as I say in 2015 , I understand that section 14 of the Human Rights Act 1998 now make it illegal to discriminate on the basis of sex where both sex may perform the function require . this would apply to peerage . the noble Lord , Lord Pannick , mention to I at the time that if a legitimate female issue , where the peerage would otherwise become extinct , refer a case to the European Court of Human Rights , they could well have a chance of success . I would perfectly well understand if some heir might wish to take this route . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 9 February 2024 ; Vol . 835 , c . 1915 . ] male primogeniture could therefore be illegal anyway in some case , if test by the court . on Second reading in the other place , the following supportive point be make about my Bill . the Earl of Sandwich say , " the campaign for female succession must be encourage , and have have approval , if not support , from within government at a high level . Harriett Baldwin ' s private Member ' s Bill in another place attract a lot of attention , while , as the noble Earl , Lord Russell , mention , Penny Mordaunt " — the Leader of the House — " refer to this as a ' posh glass ceiling ' . even our own noble Lord , Lord True , seem to be sympathetic , though could not actually support the Bill . let we see if his Majesty ' s Government can look more favourably on it this time . " Viscount Astor say that Lord Northbrook ' s Bill " do not go far enough … it should be a Bill that bring the peerage into line with the Crown . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 9 February 2024 ; Vol . 835 , c . 1919 . ] Lord Lucas say , " I share the vision that … woman be equal with man in every respect … and I would very much like to see that apply to peerage inheritance . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 9 February 2024 ; Vol . 835 , c . 1920 . ] Lord Addington say , " however , if we be go to do this , we should follow the example of the Royal Family . the old child be the only way you can really make this equal go forward . it " — Lord Northbrook ' s Bill — " could be interpret as an attempt at a small step forward , but it be out of date and out of time . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 9 February 2024 ; Vol . 835 , c . 1921 . ] Baroness Noakes be supportive of the way forward be inheritance by the eld child , and of course Baroness Chapman for the opposition be supportive , too . in fact , I have personally contact every single one of the 92 hereditary peer and not have a single person object . if there be objection , they be well hide in the other place . in fact , I have have the following supportive reply . Lord Hampton tell I that he support the principle behind my Bill . Earl Howe say , " I be very much in favour of the principle behind your Bill . " Lord Willoughby de Broke say , " I will certainly support it , if only because two of our good monarch have be Queens and it ' s absurd that girl be exclude by male primogeniture . " what be the Government ' s objection and why be they not supportive of the Bill , because I fear that I will be talk out ? many member of the Government be supportive , and I be sorry that the collective decision of the Government be not a supportive one . this be a miss opportunity for the Government to champion wide support for woman with another step forward . I commend my hon . friend for all her extensive consultation on this issue . it seem from what she say that no logical reason have be give to be against the measure in the Bill other than self - interest and pure old sexism . those seem to be the only two possible way someone could oppose the Bill . give that , I encourage she to keep go with this Bill and to find further date down the line . in the meantime , we can hopefully encourage the Government and Opposition to find their way to support the Bill , and it can then be nod through at a later date . such wonderfully encouraging word from my hon . friend ! I believe that by make the change I have to the substance of the Bill , I have address any substantive concern that the Government might have . I have hear the objection that it be just too complicated , too time - consume — basically , a faff for which there be not enough parliamentary time . I have be tell that it be not a doorstep issue or retail issue , and it be true that few people would ever raise it with I on the doorstep . I be sure that colleague would say the same . however , it be important because when we mention what it be about , people immediately understand how pernicious it be if sexism be embed in our legislature in this way . may I take this opportunity to put it on the record that the hon . Member be do an amazing job on an important subject ? it be quite depressing , as a relative newcomer to this House , that in 2024 we be still have to make these argument . perhaps 2024 will be the year when these thing be finally hear . I have hear concern that the Bill could be use to abolish hereditary peerage altogether , with an amendment in the other place , but the primary advocate of that — Lord Grocott — have assure I that he will not use this Bill for that purpose . I will conclude my remark by say that my only interest in the issue be as a female parliamentarian — the 341st woman ever elect to this place in our nation ' s history . my hon . friend refer to the number of female mps ever elect . I be elect in 2019 and I be no . 523 — her experience show in the number she attribute to her name . there be 650 mp in this place , yet we still have not get to 650 woman ever sit on these green Benches . do she agree that that be the context in which her speech should be see ? I be encourage to hear a Government Parliamentary Private Secretary , no less , make supportive remark in this debate , and I agree with my hon . friend . I want to say for the record that I be not posh . this Bill do not affect I at all . I care passionately about equality , equality of opportunity , girl get a great education , woman succeed in the workplace and in their life , and achieve a 50 : 50 Parliament in my lifetime . I congratulate my hon . friend on introduce this Bill . Lord Trefgarne , one of the most distinguished peer live in my constituency of Woking , be a long - stand opponent of my hon . friend ' s proposal , but he be a very agreeable and thoughtful man and I be sure he would be delighted to meet she to discuss it . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for find someone who object to the principle of the Bill . I have not yet have a reply to my inquiry of Lord Trefgarne , so I will certainly follow that up in due course . I want to end my remark with an inspiring quotation that I hear this week , which sum up why be persist with this issue . I be very inspired to hear these word by Nora Ephron , the great US screenwriter : " whatever you choose , however many road you travel , I hope that you choose not to be a lady . I hope you will find some way to break the rule and make a little trouble out there . and I also hope that you will choose to make some of that trouble on behalf of woman . " so I say to my government : " come on . I will continue to make a little trouble on this subject until you let this Bill pass . " alternatively , we could agree today to make this small and symbolic change for our country ' s sake and for the sake of equality between future generation of man and woman . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) on her dog determination . sometimes , we just have to keep go with these thing , and she be entirely right that this be a private member ' s Bill whose time have come . try to justify to anybody that we reserve a portion of seat exclusively to one sex or the other in either part of our legislature be a sticky wicket ; certainly , I could not make a good fist of it . woman have have to fight for the same treatment as man — not well treatment or different treatment — at every stage of the way . I be extremely proud that one of my forebear be chain to the front of this building with Mrs Pankhurst . I appreciate my hon . friend ' s supportive tone . I note for Hansard that he be the parliamentary private Secretary to the Leader of the House of Lords . that be not the first time I have be out . my hon . friend be absolutely right : I spend quite a bit of time at the other end of the building with their lordship . in fact , the current Chief Whip in the House of Lord be my sponsor for my parliamentary assessment board . I must say that I be not the child of a peer or in line to inherit a peerage . the run joke be that I have be treat the PPS job as an apprenticeship for the past three year . however , I see the immense value of what happen in the other place , and the quality of some of the people there . it be baffle to I that we have a system design to filter people entirely base on whether they have a Y chromosome . we have already reach the determination that our royal family do not need to follow that precedent , and we reach it in conjunction with all the other Commonwealth realm . I also have canadian heritage , so the King be my monarch twice over . I be very happy to know that , at some point , there will be a Crown Princess or a Princess of Wales who will be the substantive holder of that title . I be very thankful to my hon . friend for take on some of the feedback she receive about the previous iteration of the Bill on grandfathere in some of these title . my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire say that people have say that this be not a retail issue — it do not come up on the doorstep . do my hon . friend the Member for Heywood and Middleton agree that it do not matter whether it come up on the doorstep or not ? as she say , woman here be be discriminate against simply because they be woman , and that should not stand whether it come up on the doorstep or not . my hon . friend be entirely correct . however , the idea that say , " actually , we shouldn ' t bother about woman be treat differently in any walk of life , " would not get a reaction on the doorstep be bonker , especially when it come to female voter , who we certainly rely on — let ' s not kid ourselves — in the conservative party . I would not be able to justify say that . I be shocked to hear that my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire be tell that the Bill be too much of a faff to carry out . on that subject , the good way to find out if there be any objection would be to give the Bill a second reading today , send it to the other end and find out what be in that can of worm . then we can move forward on that basis . as with many thing in life , the good way be to suck it and see , so I absolutely — Order . I be truly sorry to interrupt the hon . Gentleman and the hon . Lady in the middle of such an interesting and important debate , but I be require to do so . the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 21 June . business without Debate Prison medium Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 1 March . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . would it be possible to take all 17 Bills that the Government be object to together so that we do not have to go through they seriatim ? there be some very worthy Bills among they , but if the Government want to object to all of they , why not just say so now ? I understand what the hon . Gentleman be say , but I do not know the Government ' s opinion or decision on these Bills and the Government can not state their position until I have put the question . I will do so properly and in normal order . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . I detect a little irritation in the hon . Gentleman ' s tone because this be a somewhat repetitive procedure , but I remind the House and the hon . Gentleman that the Bills be all his . we be go through this procedure because he have submit 17 Bills , which he have every right to do . when he submit his 17 Bills , I will deal with each of they in turn properly , accord to the rule . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I make it clear that my frustration be not with you , Madam Deputy Speaker ? my irritation be with the Government . I be glad for that clarity . I suspect it might be the case . it be not for I to say whether anybody have any irritation with the hon . Gentleman and his 17 Bills , because I will treat they fairly and reasonably , as I do all Bills . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Diagnosis and Treatment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Wednesday 6 March . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemption of Motor Homes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . Regulatory Impact assessment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . Barnett Formula ( Replacement ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . rule of Law ( Enforcement by Public Authorities ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . National Health Service Co - Funding and Co - Payment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . Caravan site Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . local Government ( pay accountability ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 1 March . Multi - storey Car Parks ( Safety ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . Military Action ( parliamentary Approval ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . child Criminal Exploitation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 1 March . Building Societies Act 1986 ( amendment ) Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee Object . Bill to be consider on Friday 1 March . NHS Property Services Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) my aim during this Adjournment debate be to get a plain answer to one simple question : to whom do NHS Property Services answer ? that be a crucial question , because the organisation be in possession of an estate of more than 2 , 700 property with a value of more than £ 3 billion . the company be responsible for roughly 10 % of all NHS facility , yet there be a need for clarity on how it be oversee . I aim to unpack some of the key question that need answer and outline some way in which we can improve the situation we find ourselves in , specifically in relation to Seaton Community Hospital in my constituency . what exactly be NHS Property Services ? I have to answer this question myself several month ago , when I learn of plan by NHS Devon to hand back part of Seaton Community Hospital to NHS Property Services , from which NHS Devon have be rent the building . I have little idea why NHS Property Services be the nominal owner of a full wing at Seaton Hospital . that be in spite of the fact that the wing be fund entirely through donation raise by the local community before the hospital be build and open in 1988 . NHS Property Services be a government - own company with one single shareholder , the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . to I , that imply that minister be ultimately responsible for the oversight of that company , even though I accept that the day - to - day run of the organisation be delegate . yet ask a Minister about this , as I have , and member might hear a rather different story . each Minister who I have ask question of have simply say that they can not get involve in the decision - make process in NHS Property Services in any meaningful way . I can understand Ministers not want to tinker in operational decision , but there be some principle at stake in relation to Seaton Hospital that mean it be not just an operational matter . surely a company should be accountable to its shareholder — how otherwise can the company and its board be hold accountable for their action ? that be the paradox : we have a company worth billion that be solely own by the Government , yet minister protest that they can have almost nothing to do with it . far from be entirely detach from Government , the framework within which NHS Property Services operate be set by the Department of Health and Social Care . when I talk to regional representative from NHS Property Services , as I have several time , they make it plain to I — in what they say and what they do not — that they be bind by policy emanate from Whitehall . that affect everything from how the organisation be establish to its current operating framework , include how much NHS Property Services charge as rent for space that it let to local NHS organisation such as integrate care board . that be a key barrier in the fight to save Seaton Hospital as one single entity . the current £ 140 per square metre market rent put the embattle wing far out of the price range of any local , community - base organisation that want to take over the space and use it for the improvement of health and wellbee in the Axe valley . that be a crazy price : it be well over double what one would have to pay for office space here in Westminster — and , trust I , real estate price in Seaton should not be comparable with those in Westminster . my concern be that , on the one hand , the rent be extortionate because it be base on a clinical rate , and yet , on the other hand , the property director — the people charge with run NHS Property Services — have a background in infrastructure and estate and want to get the maximum income they can from the estate they be run , so they pay little heed to the health context . I will talk a little about the health context to bring this Seaton Hospital case study to life . the chief medical officer , Sir Chris Whitty , in his annual report last October call " Health in an Ageing Society " , write specifically about the tendency of old people to retire and move to rural area , and specifically to coastal area such as Seaton . he say : " we ' ve really get to get serious about the area of the country where ageing be happen very fast , and we ' ve get to do it now . it ' s possible to compress the period of time that people spend in ill health . . . because otherwise we will end up with large number of people lead much more dependent life . " the report recommend : " provide service and environment suitable for old adult in these area " as an " absolute priority " . Sir Chris Whitty say that , specifically , we need policy to reduce disease , to reduce disability and to help people to exercise , eat well and stay fit . that be the chief medical officer , and I will also refer to a report write just a couple of week ago by Beccy Baird from the King ' s Fund . it call for a radical refocusing of health and care , with primary care and community service at its core . the report say that " progress have be hamper by an incorrect belief that move care into the community will result in short - term cash saving . other factor include a lack of datum about primary and community service lead to a ' cycle of invisibility ' " , with " urgent challenge such as A & E waiting time and plan care backlog become the priority for politician tempt by quick fix instead of fundamental improvement . " Sir Chris Whitty and Beccy Baird be up against some in the public sector who be tempt to treat all estate management matter as the same . the head of the National Audit Office , Gareth Davies , talk in Parliament in January about asset management be one of the " main area of financial opportunity " for the Government . I would caution the National Audit Office and NHS Property Services to read the Whitty and Baird report , rather than simply seek to divest all property in the NHS for as much as Property Services can get . Seaton Hospital be transfer to NHS Property Services in 2017 . the purpose of Property Services at that time be to centralise the holding of various strategic health authority and primary care trust under one umbrella organisation . the aim be to remove the burden from local NHS organisation , and offer great financial security by hold all those property centrally . it be intend to provide well management of these important space , so as to ensure value for money and quality facility , use economy of scale and of scope . fast forward to 2024 , and it be clear that the model be break . rather than ensure that our local health service get the space they need , we seem to be make perverse , false economy . the Government give money to integrate care board only to have government - own NHS Property Services recoup a large portion of that money in rental fee for the building that icb use , at a rent set and advise by market rent auditor . this offer very little flexibility or security for our local NHS service , which , as in the case of Seaton Community Hospital , be leave in a scenario in which the ICB be force to cut service while still be lumber with a bill for the space those service use to occupy . we lose the clinical bed we have at Seaton Hospital in 2017 , and the space have since remain vacant . the only way to remove this item from the budget line be to turn over the space to NHS Property Services , which become liable for the amount charge in rent . as hon . member can see , this system be not only complex but incredibly backwards . the Government be effectively rent these building from themselves , despite the fact that many be previously directly own by local health body . they be not even rent out at a fair price , despite the state commitment to achieve fair market rate . these facility be rent out as clinical space , even when they be not use for clinical purpose . this be base on an evaluation that must have be completely off the scale when it be make in 2016 . Seaton Hospital be evaluate by the assessor Montagu Evans , and I do not know who it could possibly have talk to if it think that Seaton Hospital be worth £ 300 , 000 rent a year . why , we might ask , be the rent not adjust to reflect the building ' s current status ? so far as I can gather , it be because the Government ' s rental framework do not allow it . it place a huge roadblock in the way of community group and hospital friend organisation that seek to convert such space into new setting aim at provide non - clinical service of the sort to which Sir Chris Whitty and Beccy Baird be refer . instead , the system seem analogous to a self - lick lollipop , or a dog blindly chase its evasive tail without ever stop to think why it can not catch it . during my many conversation with NHS Property Services in recent month , individual employee have seek to be helpful . however , they find themselves handcuff by Government policy . they be unable to deviate from the Government ' s framework , which , through the consolidated charge policy , first introduce in 2016 , set the rate that icb and , now , community organisation need to pay . the rate be introduce when the right hon . member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) , who be now Chancellor of the Exchequer , be Health Secretary . in effect , the Government own all NHS facility and have the power to direct the arrangement under which they be rent out , include the wing of Seaton Community Hospital that be fund , in whole , by local villager , townspeople and the Seaton and District Hospital League of Friends charity . what on paper might seem like a prudent way to manage NHS facility , and to make sure that they be properly maintain , mean in reality that , in place like Seaton , the community no long have a stake or a say in how its local hospital be use . that beg the question : who be in charge ? the answer should be the Secretary of State and Ministers report to she , but give her Department ' s attempt to point the finger at this operational body and to divest itself of responsibility , it seem that nobody be in charge . People be point in several direction , and I can not identify exactly who be set the market rate . simply put , the Government have let go of the wheel , and be content to let the car spin out of control so that they do not have to take responsibility . that be not good enough . our NHS be the envy of the world and one of our country ' s great achievement . when the great liberal thinker William Beveridge conceive of a service that be free at the point of use all those year ago , it be revolutionary and re - shape the way in which modern democracy have approach public health . we can not allow it to be erode because of the unwillingness of the Government to face up to the challenge . the mark of leadership be honesty and accountability . I would like to see that from Ministers . rather than the Government say , " this be an operational matter for NHS Property Services , not I , " I would much rather someone from this Conservative Government admit that they know what the so - call market rent be , why it be charge at that rate , and why the community must pay if it want to use that space . well still , that community should be give a concessionary rate , in recognition that clinical activity be not go on in that wing of the building at this stage . the community ought to be able to hire the space for a much more affordable rent . I have three question for the Minister . first , be the Department for Health and Social Care responsible for set the amount that NHS Property Services charge local NHS service such as icb to rent the space ? secondly , could the consolidated charge policy , which I understand set out those price , be change by the Secretary of State or Ministers ? thirdly , if the answer to those question be yes , why have I be tell repeatedly that Ministers can not , so they say , get involve in operational matter relate to NHS Property Services ? many icb be struggle to balance the book — NHS Devon be no different in that respect — and be seek to downsize the space that they rent to make end meet . this situation be not specific to Seaton , although I think it be a good case study because of the way in which local people buy a brick and build the hospital themselves with many small donation . the situation face our local community hospital strike I as an illustration of why change be need . I have be campaign with the Seaton and District Hospital League of Friends charity , which support Seaton Hospital , to change the charge policy , so that NHS Property Services can have flexibility on rental fee . I want the company to enable underused space in NHS facility to be rent out to local community group that want to invest in preventive health and community wellbee , and that want to fulfil some of the vision that Sir Chris write about in his annual report last October . ultimately , I would like an affordable concessionary rate to be offer to Seaton and District Hospital League of Friends and the work group that work with they . that would be of benefit to rural and coastal community such as Seaton . we need to know how to ensure accountability for the current arrangement , and I hope that there can be concession for local community , such as the one that I represent in the Axe valley . I look forward to the Minister ' s response to my question , and I hope that he be willing to engage with I to enact meaningful change that will benefit community and constituent , such as those in my Tiverton and Honiton constituency . I congratulate the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) on secure the debate . I be grateful for the opportunity to set out the role of NHS Property Services . this subject be understandably of great interest to right hon . and hon . member across the House . the hon . Gentleman raise the issue of the future of Seaton community hospital . I will come to that in the latter part of my speech , but let I say for the record that I completely understand his desire to protect a much - love community health facility . as the Member of Parliament for Pendle , I successfully fight to keep open Pendle Community Hospital in Nelson , and in the neighbouring constituency of Ribble Valley , the new £ 7 . 8 million Clitheroe Community Hospital open in May 2014 , so I recognise the importance of community hospital , not just in offer in - patient care , but in act as a hub for other healthcare service . it will be most useful for I to first set out to the House why and how NHS Property Services come into being . under the Health and Social Care Act 2012 , the coalition Government abolish primary care trust and transfer their commission responsibility to clinical commission group . their property interest transfer to either NHS trust or NHS Property Services , which be establish in 2013 for this purpose . that decision be make because it allow commissioner to focus on provide care for patient , rather than manage property . NHS Property Services take ownership of nearly 3 , 500 local facility , such as community hospital , health centre , GP surgery and care home . in the past 10 year , NHS Property Services have reduce the size of that estate by a fifth , save over half a billion pound of taxpayer ' money , every penny of which have be reinveste into the NHS . I understand the Minister ' s point about reinveste the proceed from sell what might have be regard as excess nhs property , but my concern relate to where that money go . my understanding be that , follow a sale , half the money might go back to the integrate care board , which would be Devon in this case . the problem with that situation be that it do not take account of the fact that local community donate the money to build the infrastructure in the first place . that be certainly the case in the Axe valley with Seaton Community Hospital . I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . I hope to provide reassurance in the latter part of my speech that the sale of Seaton Community Hospital be certainly not on the card and be exceptionally unlikely . however , I appreciate that when property be sell , there be always tension between how much of that money will be reinveste in local community — many of which have a stake in have create the facility in the first place — and how much go into the general NHS pot . the important point for I to land today be that all the money remain within the health service and none return to the Treasury , so any sale of property from this portfolio be not a way for the Government to generate income , but simply a way of ensure that the property estate be manage in the most effective fashion . NHS Property Services be establish as a limited company and be lead by a board of executive and non - executive director who be appoint for their property and healthcare expertise , include a departmental shareholder representative . the board ' s director all have the usual responsibility relate to the proper governance of a limited company , with certain shareholder matter reserve , such as share issue or senior appointment . the board must work within the wide framework across Government , such as the Treasury ' s guidance on manage public money , which rightly set out the strict rule for deliver value for taxpayer ' money . the company therefore work with the Department to agree fiscal target to work within , and be rightly hold accountable for its use of public money . however , it be important to emphasise that my Department be not responsible for operational decision , which be take by the board and its executive management team . one reason for the creation of NHS Property Services be to ensure that decision could be take without political interference . although I appreciate that the hon . member and other across the House may be of the view that my noble Friend Lord Markham , who have ministerial responsibility for NHS Property Services , can intervene to reduce the rent for unoccupied space at Seaton Community Hospital or similar facility across the country , it would simply not be appropriate for he or any other Minister to intervene in any individual case . the coalition Government establish NHS Property Services through the cost recovery principle , which be the broad framework that the organisation work under . this mean that it be fund through charge its cost to the occupier of its building and the recipient of its service . as such , every pound it spend and do not recover be a pound that can not be spend on deliver frontline care . the Devon property be transfer to NHS Property Services on the basis that their ongoing running cost would be fund through rent at market rate and service charge . this approach be take to give real incentive to local commissioner to take the tough decision on which property be most suitable for deliver their clinical strategy , look at area as a whole and move away from a situation whereby subside property cost could lead to a less effective approach . I accept that that can sometimes lead to tension about how reasonable charge be set , but the aim be that NHS body , and other voluntary and charitable organisation that wish to occupy NHS premise , must factor in the full cost of occupy and maintain specialist facility in their decision making . I will now turn to the future of community hospital in Devon , include Seaton Community Hospital . as the hon . Gentleman set out in his Adjournment debate in November , Seaton Hospital be part of a group of community hospital that transfer to NHS Property Services in 2017 , when large part of Seaton Hospital and other in Devon be already vacant . the clinical commissioning group carry out a consultation on the model of community care and a new model of care be introduce , make it more integrated and more community base , with more people receive care at home . that result in a significant reduction in the number of community hospital bed require across Devon . since then , progress have be make to identify sustainable alternative healthcare use for vacant space in community hospital in Devon , such as Ottery St Mary and Axminster . in addition , NHS Property Services and Devon ICB have work with the voluntary sector to support local initiative in some property , such as , as the hon . Gentleman will know , the Waffle caf é at Seaton Hospital . I understand that Seaton Hospital and some other hospital still have significant amount of vacant space . despite their good effort , NHS Property Services ' commissioner have be unable to identify relevant service that could fill this gap . NHS Property Services have continue to manage the property , with the cost of the vacant space be charge to the ICB to ensure the cost attribute to the property be fully recover , but recently the financial challenge face Devon ICB have call the sustainability of that position into question and it have explore option for alleviate those cost . however , as I explain , simply seek to pass those cost back to NHS Property Services would not result in the Department have any more money to spend on local healthcare service in Devon . as I be sure the hon . Gentleman will appreciate , the responsibility for decision about where to locate clinical service in Devon be a matter for the ICB . it be not a matter for Ministers . however , NHS Property Services be work closely with local leader to identify option that would help to mitigate the cost pressure arise due to Seaton Community Hospital not operate at full capacity . if , and only if , the ICB determine the property be wholly surplus to its requirement , NHS Property Services would have the responsibility for sell the asset , follow Treasury guideline , but it be important to stress that the site remain an operational site and NHS Property Services therefore have no plan to sell it . as have be mention in the local medium , the idea of partial demolition of the hospital have be float . again , there be no plan for that course of action , which would very much be a last resort in any event . I believe the site have now be list as an asset of community value , which mean that such a drastic step be exceedingly unlikely to be support by the local planning authority or other local stakeholder . it be true that the property have be register as an asset of community value . to my mind that give it a stay of execution , rather than that it be inevitable that it will be preserve intact . NHS Property Services talk through the very many option — I think 28 option — on the table for the vacant space at Seaton Hospital . one of that long list of option be indeed sell off the redundant ward , which could be demolish and use for house . do the Minister not know that ? I know the idea of demolition have be float in a meeting , but I have be assure that there be certainly no plan for demolition . as the hon . Gentleman will know , an asset of community value nomination be accept by the local authority , and as an ACV nomination remain live for five year , it will expire in January 2029 , although I be pretty sure that local community group and other would campaign for that to be extend . it be certainly much more than a stay of execution . I hope that have provide suitable reassurance to the local community that the threat of demolition be exceedingly remote , because the local planning authority and other local stakeholder simply would not agree to the demolition of this much - value community asset . I fully recognise that the local community have invest in the building of the hospital in the first place , and therefore be a key stakeholder in its future . the ICB and NHS Property Services continue in ongoing dialogue with a range of community group about potential future use , and the community have be invite by the ICB to develop a business case for the future use of the property by the end of June 2024 . any future decision on the future of Seaton Hospital will be take follow evaluation of that business case . I sincerely hope that a financially sustainable solution can be find locally and in the good interest of the people of Devon . question put and agree to . House adjourn .