Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Crown Court Backlog what step her Department be take to help reduce the backlog of case in the Crown court . what step her Department be take to help reduce the backlog of case in the Crown court . when her Department expect the Crown court backlog to decrease . the last Government leave we with a record and rise backlog . case be take year to be hear , and the number of victim drop out at police stage have nearly double . we have take step to deliver swifter justice by increase sit day to a 10 - year high and extend magistrate court ' sentence power , but we must go far . that be why I have commission Sir Brian Leveson to conduct a review of the court , ask he to propose once - in - a - generation reform . we all want justice to be serve as quickly as possible , and many of my constituent have contact I recently with concern about law and order . give the various medium report about unused capacity in court up and down the country , what be the Secretary of State ' s Department do to ensure that every aspect of the justice system be work efficiently and at full capacity ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point , and I share his concern and those of his constituent — indeed , I see many such case in my own constituency advice surgery . we be work at pace to ensure that every bit of the criminal justice system be work at its maximum efficient capacity . that include everything from police stage right through to sentencing in the court . I be sure that he will be aware of the very strained situation we inherit . it will take some time for those change to take effect , but we be drive forward system efficiency , and Sir Brian Leveson ' s review will give we a policy package with which to reform the system for the benefit of all victim . constituent across Bromsgrove and the village be sick and tired of violent criminality and lawlessness creep over the border from Birmingham into our constituency . in the past year , Romsley Co - op and Wythall post office at Drakes Cross — both of which be on the northern fringe of my constituency — have be raid , and it be hard to believe that proximity to Birmingham be not a factor in that . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that prosecution be pursue and custodial sentence be give in the first instance , to crack down on crime and make our area safe again ? through our landmark review of sentencing , this Government be ensure that sentencing be fit for purpose . that will ultimately put we in a position where we can crack down on reoffende , thereby cut crime and the number of victim . I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman be propose carve out his part of the world from any other part of the country , but his argument about boundary can apply to any part of the UK . that be why we need a function justice system for the whole of England and Wales , and that be what this Government be go to deliver . the Justice Secretary have say that she agree with the old legal maxim that justice delay be justice deny . we currently have a record backlog of 73 , 000 in the Crown court ; rape case be not be prosecute for three or four year ; and , in particular , on any one day 25 % of case do not take place , for a variety of reason . what be the Justice Secretary do to speed up the whole system ? I agree with the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee that the backlog be far too high . he will know that , no matter what we do in term of system efficiency and capacity , that backlog be project to rise , because the demand come into the system be particularly high and be itself rise . that be why I have ask Sir Brian Leveson to consider once - in - a - generation policy reform , so that we can make the legislative change necessary to bring the backlog down . that be the change that be require , alongside system - wide efficiency and productivity . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the Secretary of State have announce two major review of the criminal justice system — the Leveson review and the Gauke review — and have say that , very impressively , they might report by the spring , which could be 1 March . there be a difference between report and take action , so could she set out exactly when she expect the result of those two review to have a direct impact on case number ? the Chair of the Justice Committee be tempt I to pre - empt what the review will find . those finding will , of course , dictate the pace at which change can then occur . he will be aware of the acute pressure on our prison system , despite the emergency lever that I have have to pull — that have only buy we some time , as I have say when regularly update the House . the sentencing review measure have to take account of our remain problem with prison capacity . once the review have be publish , we will move quickly to decide which recommendation to take forward . on the court package , it be likely that any measure will also require legislative reform . again , I will seek to move at pace on that , but that rather depend on the package of measure that Sir Brian Leveson ultimately recommend . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the court backlog be grow by 500 case every month , and the Ministry of Justice have not set a date for when it will come down . victim be be force to put their life on hold while they wait for a trial date , yet today at the Old Bailey half of all the courtroom sit empty . the Lady Chief Justice have say that there be 4 , 000 additional sit day available that could be use now . who be the obstacle to resolve this ? be it the Justice Secretary , who be content for rape trial to be schedule for as far off as 2027 , or be it the Chancellor , and the Justice Secretary have just have ring run around she by the Treasury ? what an absolutely outrageous set of remark ! the right hon . Member completely forget that , only six month ago , his Government be in charge . the Government of which he be part all but run our justice system into the ground . I do not recall see he stand up and speak about delay for rape victim , or indeed any other kind of victim , when he be on this side of the House . I be glad he have now realise that the system ought to try to put victim first . his critique would have more force be it not for the fact that this government , have come to office only six month ago , have increase Crown court sitting capacity by 2 , 500 day . Prison Officer Recruitment if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of the term and condition for prison officer ' pension on the recruitment of prison officer . may I take this opportunity to pay tribute to our prison staff for the essential work that they do ? we be committed to improve the retention of experienced staff , because they be vital to keep our prison run . the Lord Chancellor have request advice from official on the pension age of prison officer , and we will continue to engage with trade union as this be consider . I thank the Minister for his warm word and encourage remark . he will know that in Scotland the " 68 be too late " campaign by the Prison Officers Association enjoy cross - party and Scottish Government support , but the UK Government have refuse to take action on this important issue . the current retirement term ignore the reality of the frontline role that prison officer perform in prison on a daily basis across the UK . it be a dangerous role , and no less so than that of firefighter or the police , who enjoy very different term . although justice be devolve to the Scottish Parliament , the pension of scottish prison officer be control by the UK Government . so will the Minister or the Secretary of State commit the Government to review the current prison officer retirement age of 68 , and will he meet I to hear this case in more detail ? as I have say , the Lord Chancellor have request advice on this matter . we promote our strong employee total reward package as part of our recruitment . the term and condition of the civil service pension scheme be some of the good in the public sector , with a low employee contribution rate and a significant employer contribution rate of 28 . 97 % . however , that do not mean it be not a right and proper question to ask , and if the hon . member wish to have a meeting with I , I be quite happy to meet he . support for Female Offenders what step her Department be take to support female offender . what step her Department be take to support female offender . what step her Department be take to support female offender . what step her Department be take to support female offender . this government ' s plan to support woman be clear and ambitious : to reduce the number of woman go to prison and to have few woman ' s prison . our Women ' s Justice Board , which meet for the first time last week , will support implement this vision . I would also remind the House that , as the Minister responsible for youth justice , I have initiate a review of the placement of girl in custody , on which Susannah Hancock will report at the end of this month . what family support be available for woman at Foston Hall prison and young offender institution ? we know that family support be very important to woman in custody , which be why grant funding have be award to the charity parent and Children together — pact — to provide a resettlement family engagement worker in HMP Foston Hall , as well as in seven other woman ' s prison . Gaie Delap , the mother of a constituent of mine , be recall to prison just before Christmas , despite comply with her curfew condition , because the Government ' s electronic monitoring service contractor could not fulfil its contract and find a tag to fit a frail 78 - year - old woman . can the Minister and the Secretary of State help to find a solution so that Gaie Delap can be release on her curfew , and so that woman be not disadvantage by the failing of the contractor ' s electronic monitoring system ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . in this case the court ' s decision be to impose a prison sentence , and neither Ministers nor official can intervene in sentence pass down by our independent court . I understand the frustration and can assure the House that we be work hard to find alternative approach to ensure a secure resolution to this issue . there be more than 3 , 000 woman prisoner in England and Wales — a number that the Ministry of Justice project will rise to 4 , 200 by November 2027 . like many , I welcome the newly establish Women ' s Justice Board , which will oversee effort to tackle this issue and ensure a tailored approach to female offender . what measure be be implement to provide support through community sentence and residential woman ' s centre ? we be award £ 7 . 2 million for the upcoming year to community organisation and local area that be already support woman in the community . we be also employ option to increase the use of residential provision as an alternative to short custodial sentence . that include engage with the judiciary to ensure that the option of a community order with a residential requirement be consider in appropriate case . I welcome the launch of the Women ' s Justice Board , which be intend to reduce the number of woman in our prison , cut reoffende and well support our child . will the Minister work with organisation from across the country , include North Wales Women ' s Centre , to ensure not only that their voice be at the heart of the work go on , but that they have the resource and support need to support the most vulnerable in our society ? I pay tribute to woman ' s centre across the country such as that in north Wales for the excellent contribution that their work make . I agree that short custodial sentence can be problematic ; they exacerbate woman ' s underlie need without allow time for rehabilitation , and they separate mother from child and mean that woman be more likely to reoffend . that be why the Women ' s Justice Board — I be grateful to my hon . friend for welcome it — aim to increase the number of woman support in the community . the board will also look at how we can well support mother with young child . do the Minister accept that allow biological man into woman ' s prison increase the risk to female offender ? do he far accept that only biological woman should be house in woman ' s prison ? the vast majority of transgender prisoner be in man ' s prison . we have continue the policy of the previous Government , but all policy be always under review . across the UK we face the bizarre and worrying reality that common - sense protection for woman be be dismiss . for example , in Northern Ireland a motion to ensure that biologically male prisoner who identify as woman be hold in male prison have be oppose by many elect representative in the Northern Ireland Assembly , and it be an issue that extend across the UK . what assurance — we do want assurance — can the Minister give that woman ' s safety be take seriously , and that they be guarantee single - sex space in prison , and other setting , free from biological male who identify as woman ? safe space for woman be crucial and a no . 1 priority in everything we do . the Minister refer to keep under review the question of place biological man in woman ' s prison . will he speak to the Justice Minister in Northern Ireland and ensure that she review that policy ? only last week she be defend the very policy that put woman at risk from biological man who be claim the right to be retain in woman ' s prison . that be a devolved matter , though clearly we be happy to speak to the devolved Government about any issue . Southport Attack what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of the lesson learn follow the Southport attack . I be sure that the whole House will join I in say that our thought today be with the victim of these horrific crime and their family . last week we see a measure of justice do , but over a number of year there be widespread state failure that mean that this attacker be not stop . it be right that there will be an inquiry . the Ministry of Justice will play its full part , and I will ensure that any lesson for we be learn . when the tragedy of Southport happen , crucial detail about the case could not be reveal to ensure that the trial do not collapse and the vile perpetrator do not walk away as a free man . however , some on social medium be play by different rule . do the Secretary of State think that our contempt rule be fit for the modern world ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the Government would not say anything that would risk collapse this trial . the medium follow the law , and so do everyone in this House , but the same be not true online . as the Prime Minister have say , this challenge clearly must be address . the Law Commission be review contempt law . we will look closely at that work and consider these issue in the round . but the information release shortly before the trial do not collapse the case . have it be release in August , it might have have a dampening effect on those unhelpful voice on social medium , might it not ? as I say in my previous answer , it be clear that the fast pace of the online world have some significant challenge for our present arrangement around contempt law . the Government ' s approach , which be to do nothing that might risk collapse the trial , be the right one . I hope that will have support across the House . it would have be in no one ' s interest to take any risk with the safety of the trial . as I have say , the online space pose some challenge for our contempt law arrangement , and the Law Commission be rightly look into that . I call the shadow Secretary of State . contempt of court law be guardrail that ensure fair trial . do the Justice Secretary accept that , as the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation have say , by fail to provide basic information to the public that have be disclose in previous case — information that would not prejudice a trial — the authority create a vacuum in which misinformation spread ? that misinformation could itself have be prejudicial to the trial . do she agree that in an age when most people consume their news through social medium , say nothing be not cost - free ? will she commit to review this issue now , rather than wait for the Law Commission ? there will always be differ view among lawyer about what can and can not be say . it be right that the Government take their own position and that we do nothing that could risk collapse the trial . I agree with the shadow Secretary of State that the online world pose a significant challenge to our contempt law . that be why that be already be look at . as there be a piece of work already under way , I do not want to pre - empt where that could land . the Law Commission have a good track record of consider major law change . because of the inquiry and the fast - move nature of these thing , I will keep this area under close review myself . sentencing : attendance of Offenders if she will bring forward legislative proposal to enable court to order the attendance of offender at sentencing hearing . by fail to attend their sentencing hearing , criminal add insult to injury and deny victim and their family a vital part of see justice do . Iusb will be legislate to give judge the power to order attendance at sentencing hearing , and I will make it clear in the law that reasonable force can be use to make sure that happen . the Prime Minister and I meet Cheryl Korbel last week to discuss these proposal , and we will ensure that the family of other victim be involve before the Bill be put before the House . I thank the Secretary of State for that positive response , and I thank she and the Prime Minister for meet I and my constituent Cheryl Korbel , the mother of Olivia Pratt - Korbel , the nine - year - old who be tragically murder in 2022 . Cheryl be pleased that the Government have commit to implement Olivia ' s law without delay . can the Minister ensure that Cheryl be involve in the development of this law , place victim and their family at the heart of the justice system ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work she be do on behalf of her constituent . I be pleased to be able to discuss these matter with she . she be absolutely right , and it be crucial that we make progress in this area . we have commit to introduce that legislation before the summer , and I will , as I promise last week , consult Olivia ' s family and the family of other victim for whom non - attendance at sentencing hearing have cause problem . there be a small number of people who , through due process , appear in court and be convict , but who decline to come up to the court room for sentencing . the Secretary of State have indicate her intention to move on this . do she agree that the Government need to show a very robust approach , so that people who show disdain and contempt for the rule of law be show that there be no room for manoeuvre and that they must and will appear in court ? the hon . member be right . it be already expect that defendant will attend sentencing hearing , but we know that some take the opportunity not to face the family of their victim , which cause huge trauma to some of the family . we will clarify and put on a statutory foot the expectation of attendance at sentencing hearing , along with sanction for deal with offender who still , despite be compel to attend court — even through the use of reasonable force — seek to disrupt hearing . Prolific Offenders what step her Department be take to help tackle hyper - prolific offender . what step her Department be take to help tackle hyper - prolific offender . the Government have inherit a situation where 10 % of offender account for 50 % of all offence . we have also inherit an epidemic of shoplifting , the kind of antisocial crime that blight community . I have commission David Gauke to review how sentence could be reform to address prolific offending , reduce reoffende , cut crime and ultimately make our street safe . I believe in second chance , and perhaps even more chance in some case , but the excellent Policy Exchange report , " the ' wicked and the redeemable ' : a Long - Term Plan to fix a Criminal Justice System in Crisis " find that hyper - prolific offender — those with more than 45 previous conviction — be send to prison on few than half of the occasion on which they be convict of a subsequent indictable or either - way offence . give that those people commit such high number of crime , which usually affect our least affluent constituent , what consideration have the Government give to the report ' s recommendation , particularly on introduce a mandatory two - year sentence for hyper - prolific offender who be convict of a subsequent indictable or either - way offence ? the right hon . member raise an important point about an issue that blight community across the country . I agree that we need a specific strategy for deal with prolific offender . of course , different organisation use different definition of what count as a prolific offender or hyper - prolific offender , and that be why I have ask David Gauke to look specifically at this cohort of offender in the independent sentencing review . the revolving door of prison and other type of sentence for they be clearly not have an impact . we must think about the intervention that will make the big difference to the large number of those offender , so that we can cut crime and have few victim . the Lord Chancellor rightly say that less than 10 % of criminal account for nearly half of crime . I understand that a sentencing review be under way , but any decision be for minister to make . will the right hon . Lady please rule out here and now any possibility of allow career criminal to avoid prison , even for short sentence ? the hon . Member will know that I be not go to pre - empt any of the finding of the sentencing review . the point of have an independent review be to allow for a look at all the issue in the round . I have make it clear that I be particularly concerned about the people who she rightly term career criminal , and I be particularly keen to think about the intervention that could make the big difference , so that we can reduce this blight on our community . that be a clear statement of intent from the Government , show how seriously we take prolific offending , but the measure that we choose to take forward will be clear once the sentencing review have report . I call the shadow Minister . as the Secretary of State mention , the approach to manage hyper - prolific offender be part of David Gauke ' s review , which could consider , for example , the wide use of GPS tag and home curfew , but the Department have be undertake its own assessment of the effectiveness of GPS tag . will the Government commit to publish that review before or alongside the sentencing review , so that we can properly judge the merit of any propose expansion ? as I have seek to do throughout this process , I will ensure transparency in the Government ' s approach when it come to not just the emergency release datum , but other information that underpin future policy choice . I do not quite hear a " yes " , but I will take that as an encouraging commitment that the Secretary of State will publish the GPS tag review ahead of any sentencing review . however , I be afraid that in minister ' discussion of these issue , they risk lose sight of the fact that imprisonment also serve the important purpose of punish offender in the interest of justice . importantly , how will the Government decide whether any of David Gauke ' s proposal that they be minded to accept sufficiently punish offender ? how will that judgment be make before any recommendation be accept ? I have say on many occasion in this House that I believe in punishment and in prison . Prison have a core role to play in the punishment of offender . however , we must not run out of prison place . we must balance the need to punish and imprison people with intervention that expand the use of punishment outside prison . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman say , " build more " from a sedentary position . we be . we be move forward to solve the 14 , 000 prison place deficit leave by his Government at the last election . this government will build prison , but as he know , we can not build our way out of the prison capacity crisis . we must consider other measure as well , but let I be clear : we will always seek to punish offender , and prison will always have a place . this government will build more prison place than the previous one . Prison Capacity what step her Department be take to increase prison capacity . what step her Department be take to increase prison capacity . we take immediate action to prevent the collapse of the prison system by implement SDS40 . we be build 14 , 000 new prison place and have publish our 10 - year capacity strategy . we have launch an independent sentencing review , so that we never run out of prison place again . I welcome the Government ' s action to increase prison capacity , but I be worried about youth custody . my local police force be particularly concerned that there be simply not enough space in the secure custodial estate . many vulnerable young people be at risk of be exploit by organise criminal gang . that be less to do with young offender institution and more to do with the lack of capacity in secure child ' s home ; that capacity have fall since 2010 . the number of Ministry of Justice contract space be now around only 100 for the entire country , which be appal . how will the Minister work with Department for Education to increase capacity , and protect vulnerable young people and our resident ? we certainly do not wish to reduce capacity . I can confirm that we contract with local authority ' secure child ' s home , and place child there . in 2010 we contract for 191 bed , and currently we contract for 103 . that correlate with a decrease in the number of young people in custody , mostly over the period when the Conservatives be in government . we do not currently intend to reduce overall capacity in the youth custody service estate , which comprise young offender institution , secure training centre , secure school and SCH bed . however , we be recommissione secure child ' s home place , and can not predetermine the outcome of that exercise , but I assure my hon . friend that we will not run out of space . December ' s annual report on prison capacity state that of the 88 , 400 prison place available , 97 % be occupy , and it estimate that by 2032 we will have a prison capacity of around 99 , 000 , but the central estimate of the number of prisoner stand at 104 , 100 . what will this Government do to ensure that everyone who commit a crime worthy of prison be send to prison ? I assure my hon . friend that that will be the case . People who commit a crime worthy of prison will be send to prison . as we have assure the House , we have plan to build 14 , 000 new prison place , as set out in our 10 - year capacity strategy . in six month we have add 500 prison place . it take 14 year for the Conservatives to do that . we have also launch an independent sentencing review , so that we never run out of place again . take together , these measure will ensure that the country do not have more prisoner than we have space for in our prison . on building capacity , armed force veteran concern I and many in this Chamber . they often live with post - traumatic stress disorder and have emotional memory and nightmare of what they have do in uniform for this country . what extra can be do to well look after our veteran in prison ? they fight with demon every day . we have to look after they . the armed force covenant affect we all . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service ensure that veteran ' issue be properly address with the individual concern , to give they the proper support that they need . support for Domestic Abuse Survivors what step she be take to support survivor of domestic abuse and violence against woman through the criminal justice system . this Government be commit to support victim and survivor of violence against woman and girl . these be abhorrent crime . we be therefore fund the rape and sexual abuse support fund to the tune of £ 26 million , as well as fund independent domestic and sexual violence advocate . we be also strengthen the power of the Victims ' commissioner to improve accountability where those victim ' need be not be meet . a constituent of mine from Somerset be seriously sexually assault in another county more than two year ago . despite report the assault in 2022 , she have be give a court date in December 2025 . she tell I that the legal process , involve both the court and the relevant police service , have be more traumatising than the incident itself . what well support can we offer woman who find themselves stick in these process for such length of time ? I be terribly sorry to hear about this case . we know that such case be not isolate , which be why this government be bear down on the Crown court backlog ; we be increase the number of Crown court sit day and increase magistrate ' sentence power to free up capacity in the Crown court , so that we can get swifter justice for victim . we be also invest in the victim transformation programme , through the Crown Prosecution Service , to provide precisely the kind of support that would benefit the hon . Lady ' s constituent , keep she engage in the process , and bring those trial date forward . it have be reveal that just 4 % of rape and sexual offence report to Lancashire police in the past year result in a charge or summon . what step will the Ministry take to restore confidence in the criminal justice system for my constituent ? my hon . friend will know that this Government have a landmark ambition to halve violence against woman and girl , and the criminal justice system have an important part to play in that . while set that priority , whether it be for the CPS or our police , we want to drive charge decision and drive up the conviction rate . provide swifter justice for victim be go to require once - in - a - generation reform to bring down the Crown court backlog . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in a recent write parliamentary question , I ask the Government how many domestic abuser there be in prison and what their reoffende rate be . under the system this Government inherit from the Conservatives , they say that " it be not possible to robustly calculate the number " . that be shocking , and be in part because there be no specific offence of domestic abuse in the law to properly reflect and recognise these crime . my Domestic Abuse ( Aggravated Offences ) Bill would correct that loophole . when will the Secretary of State honour the commitment she make on " Good Morning Britain " to meet I to discuss my Bill and how we can well protect victim and survivor ? tackle domestic abuse be a priority for this Government . the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 set out a broad statutory definition of domestic abuse , which be improve our understanding of the wide range of behaviour that can constitute this abuse . while not constitute a stand - alone offence , domestic abuse be consider an aggravating factor routinely throughout our criminal justice system , and rightly so . that be the reason why that data be not collect , and that be the position we will maintain . Prison Conditions what step she be take to improve prison condition . the right hon . Lady be right to raise this issue . we inherit historic under - investment in maintenance and a rise prison population . that be why we have already publish our 10 - year prison capacity strategy and have plan to invest £ 220 million in prison and probation service maintenance in ' 24 - 25 , and up to £ 300 million in ' 25 - 26 . I rise as the co - chair of the justice union parliamentary group . the emergency extra money to tackle the squalid state of our prison be welcome , but give the £ 2 billion maintenance backlog , the reality be that the extra money will not touch the side . this show exactly why the privatisation of prison maintenance be a fail model . private contractor may win contract on low bid , but billion come in as extra cost later . do the Minister seriously think that current prison maintenance provider offer good service and value for money to the taxpayer ? the right hon . Lady be right . we inherit contract that be already well progress ; for good value and to move thing forward quickly , we decide it be important to keep go with that process . however , I can assure the House that we have an open mind regard private and public sector contract in the future . the important thing be to get good value for money and get the job do . Katie Allan be a beautiful and bright young woman , and would have be a constituent of mine but for the fact that , aged 21 , she find herself , after a youthful stupid mistake , in Polmont young offender institution , where she die from suicide . the fatal incident inquiry recently publish into her death and the death of William Brown find that they both might be alive today be it not for a catalogue of error by the Scottish Prison Service . the family of those who have lose child in such circumstance be campaign for Crown immunity to be remove from prison across Britain , so that there be proper accountability and more young life be not lose . will the Minister meet the family to discuss that proposal ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he draw attention to a deeply disturbing case . I be very happy to meet he and the family concern . public Confidence in the Justice System what step she be take to increase public confidence in the justice system . the last Government give the public plenty of reason to lose confidence in the justice system , include a rise court backlog and prison on the edge of collapse . we have already avert a crisis in our prison , and have raise Crown court capacity to a 10 - year high . we be now embark on reform of our court and our prison . the work of restore confidence in the justice system have start . it will , of course , take some time . Jason Hoganson be wrongly release under the Government ' s early release scheme . last week , he be convict of assault his ex - partner just a day after he be free under that botched scheme . do the Secretary of State agree that this shocking case , and case like it , continue to undermine the public ' s trust and confidence in our justice system ? what undermine confidence in the justice system be run out of prison place , which be the inheritance the Conservative Government leave for this Government . that be the mess that we be clean up . the hon . Gentleman will also be aware that the previous Government ' s end - of - custody supervise licence scheme be also an early release scheme , but without any of the measure on accountability and transparency , or the wide set of exclusion , that that we introduce with the SDS40 scheme . on Friday , I meet my constituent Hayley Johns . she have give I permission to share her story in this place . Hayley be a victim of domestic abuse and actual bodily harm perpetrate by an ex - partner . I be absolutely shocked to hear her story . her ex - partner be convict for three year for his crime . however , he be be consider for release after serve just three month . do the Justice Secretary agree that give the legacy of the previous Government , we need to redouble our effort , and the effort of this Government , to improve confidence in the criminal justice system ? can I please ask she to take a personal interest in this case ? I will happily look at the fact of the case . some of those number do not sound like they should be possible , but that could be down to specific factor relate to that case . if my hon . friend write to I with the detail , I will make sure he have a full response . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . confidence in the criminal justice system can be achieve only if support for victim and survivor be adequately fund , but charity such as Victim Support , whose service I have personally benefit from , have say that for they , the hike in employer ' national insurance contribution amount to a real - term budget cut of 7 % . victim need more support , not less . will the Secretary of State fight to reverse that damaging cut and help restore victim ' confidence in the criminal justice system ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware of the difficult fiscal inheritance for this Government , and that we have have to make some difficult choice . we receive a good settlement from the Treasury at the last Budget , but it be not without its challenge , give the high demand in our system . he will know that we have protect funding for victim of violence against woman and girl , include rape and sexual offence . we have seek to protect the most vulnerable victim when make decision on our victim funding package . Grooming Gangs : sentence what step her Department be take to ensure that people convict of charge relate to groom gang receive adequate sentence . the right hon . member raise a very important point on these heinous gang and the crime that they commit . the 20 recommendation make by Alexis Jay in her independent inquiry on child sexual abuse be ignore for far too long . the Government be work at pace to respond to they . we will also legislate to make groom an aggravate factor in the sentencing of child sexual offence , ensure that the punishment fit these horrific crime . as in Bradford last week , where more of the groom gangster , largely of pakistani origin , who rape white girl there and elsewhere be sentence , the paucity of the Home Secretary ' s audit , whereby authority mark their own homework , be make clear . will the Justice Secretary agree to a wide - range review of these matter with statutory power ? surely those whose life have be ruin , and those whose life may yet be ruin , deserve more than the weak reticence of people with power who refuse to face the fact . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman and I have a share objective in make it clear that there be a desire in all part of the House to ensure that we face the full fact and that the victim of these heinous crime receive the justice they deserve . I be sorry to hear that there be concern in Bradford about the audit order by the Home Secretary ; I will ensure that they be pass on to the Home Secretary , because , as the right hon . Gentleman will know , these matter fall directly within the purview of the Home Department . Youth Justice System what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the youth justice system in prevent reoffende . the number of child in custody have fall significantly over the last decade , but those who be detain be now a more complex and violent cohort . our turnaround programme provide fund that enable youth offend team to intervene early to address child offending . only 5 % of child who complete such intervention receive conviction in the first year of the programme , but we be continue to take stock of what more can be do . last week , tragically , 12 - year - old Leo Ross be stab to death in Birmingham as he be return home from school . his 14 - year - old killer have be arrest several time for violent offence in the month run up to the killing . can the Minister tell I what the Government be do to reform the youth justice system to address and prevent the knife crime among our young people that be result in terrible tragedy like the one we see last week ? I be deeply sadden by this tragic crime , and my thought and , I be sure , those of everyone else go to the family of Leo Ross . such horrific event underline just how important it be to deliver our manifesto commitment to ensure that every young person catch in possession of a knife be refer to a youth offend team and that appropriate action be take . we be also pilot a new , more robust form of community punishment for child , involve mandatory gps monitoring and intensive supervision . Deputyship Applications what step she be take to reduce processing time for deputyship application by the Court of Protection . application for deputyship to the Court of Protection play a vital role when people need to be able to make decision for love one who lack capacity . it be important to support those people through prompt and efficient process . his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service have be implement an improvement plan , drive down waiting time by recruit more staff , enhance judicial capacity , digitise application form , and implement a new case management system . one of my constituent have contact I to ask why he have be wait nine long month for a decision from the Court of Protection on his deputyship application . he need to secure the deputyship in order to make crucial decision for a vulnerable love one . another constituent , in a similar position , wait for two month without any acknowledgement that his application be be look into . their experience be not unique ; solicitor and judge alike acknowledge the systemic delay plague the system . do the Minister agree that such long delay in processing time be unacceptable , and what do she think be acceptable ? I agree with the hon . Lady that such delay be not acceptable , and I be sorry to hear of the distress that this will have cause . it be right that we continue to invest in our improvement plan and continue to see progress with digitisation . digitise the application form be a first step , but we want to see end - to - end digitisation , which we know be result in decent progress and have speed up those time over recent month . there be more to do , and we shall do it . violence against Women and girl what step her Department be take through the criminal justice system to help tackle violence against woman and girl . as I have say , the Government be commit to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . it be an important ambition , and the criminal justice system have a vital role to play in it . in November , we launch a pilot promote domestic abuse protection order in select area , and we have ambition to roll that out far . we will also introduce independent legal adviser for adult rape victim , ensure that victim have the legal support that they need and deserve . last week , the Domestic Abuse Commissioner find that just 5 % of report domestic abuse result in a conviction . do the Minister share my concern that lengthy investigation into non - crime hate incident be potentially divert vital resource from the criminal justice system and from prosecute actual violence against woman and girl ? the hon . member be right to remark on the low charging and conviction rate for domestic abuse . we have an ambition to drive those up . that be why we be put more funding and more prioritisation into this area and call on our agency , whether it be the police or the Crown Prosecution Service , to really focus on it , because right now we be not do enough for woman and girl . the tragic reality for many woman who suffer domestic abuse and then have to go through family court proceeding on top of it be that the presumption of parental contact provide another opportunity for perpetrator of domestic abuse to prolong it . the Government be rightly review this . will Ministers ensure that we make the most of this opportunity to well protect woman who suffer domestic abuse through the family court system ? my hon . friend be right to make that point . our family court should never become site of retraumatisation for victim of domestic abuse . we be review the presumption , and when we be ready , we will publish the finding and our policy response to that review . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this Government inherit a record and rise Crown court backlog and prison on the point of collapse , serve as breeding ground for crime that create well criminal , not well citizen . the work of restore safe street in this country will be long and hard , but we be take immediate action . since the last Justice oral , we have increase the number of sit day in the Crown court by 2 , 000 this financial year and boost criminal legal aid by up to £ 92 million a year to get case move through the court more quickly . we have publish a 10 - year prison capacity strategy , set out plan to build 14 , 000 new prison place to ensure we always have the space to lock up dangerous criminal . we launch the Women ' s Justice Board , with one clear goal : to send few woman to prison . we be do what it take to deliver swifter justice for victim and punishment that cut crime . minister have talk quite a bit today about expand power for magistrate court . could the Secretary of State tell I what additional funding be be make available and what training there will be for magistrate to assist they with this expand role ? the change in relation to magistrate court sentencing power be make by the previous Government due to prison capacity issue , and they be work well . we have restore those same power , so I do not think those issue around training be necessarily engaged . however , we will ensure that legal adviser and the full package of measure that magistrate need to fulfil their obligation be in place . what support have the Ministry of Justice put in place for those serve indeterminate sentence for public protection , especially where they have additional need ? it be right that IPP sentence be abolish . last week , I host a roundtable for mp to discuss their concern about IPP sentence and share the work the Department be do . the Prisons Minister in the other place host a similar roundtable for peer . we be determined to make further progress towards a safe and sustainable release for those serve IPP sentence , while recognise that at all time public protection be paramount . I call the shadow Secretary of State . two week ago , three groom gang member be sentence at Bradford Crown court for the most appalling rape of child , but they receive only six , seven and nine - year sentence respectively — six year , out on licence in four , for the rape of a child . do the Secretary of State agree that those sentence be disgracefully short , and will she commit to use the sentencing review to mandate full life sentence for these evil people ? if she will , she will have our support . we have a share objective in make sure that these evil individual feel the full force of the law . I will not comment on individual sentencing decision , and the shadow Lord Chancellor might wish to reflect on that decision ; it be not appropriate to do so , give our collective commitment to the independence of the judiciary . however , as I say in response to early question , we will legislate to make groom an aggravating factor , and this Government will make sure that victim get the justice they deserve . I have write to the Attorney General ask he to review those sentence as potentially unduly lenient . two of the man who be sentence at Bradford Crown court for groom gang offence be absent . they be think to have abscond abroad . can the Justice Secretary confirm how many groom gang defendant the Government be currently pursue overseas and what effort be be make by the Government with , in this case , the pakistani authority , use every lever of the british state to locate these evil man and get justice for the victim ? I will happily write to the right hon . gentleman with detail on the specific case that he raise . he be right to say that we have international agreement and arrangement with other jurisdiction to ensure that offender can be bring back to face justice in this country . I be sure that those arrangement be be apply appropriately , but I will make sure that he get a full answer on the case that he have raise . today we learn not only that Yevgeny Prigozhin , a sanctioned warlord , use frozen fund to make legal threat to silence a british journalist , but that the enabler of this textbook example of lawfare have since go unpunished , with the Solicitors Regulation Authority ruling that Prigozhin ' s lawyer " break no rule " . that inaction , in the face of such clear - cut wrongdoing , show that our current framework be inadequate . can the Minister outline what step the Government be take to create a tough deterrent against harmful lawfare tactic , particularly when they be deploy by insidious individual like Prigozhin ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for the campaigning work that he be do in this area . Journalism be the lifeblood of democracy , and strategic lawsuit against public participation represent an abuse of the legal system ; they be use by those with deep pocket to harass and silence journalism . such behaviour be intolerable . my focus , and the focus of this government , will be on the implementation of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 , which introduce an early dismissal mechanism and cost protection for slapp defendant . last September , the Secretary of State confirm that foreign national offender block up our jail be be remove and deport . will she update the House on how many have be remove and deport , and do she agree that the fast way to free up capacity in our prison be to remove the vast majority of they ? I agree that we need to do everything we can to remove foreign national offender from our prison . between 5 July 2024 and 4 January 2025 , 2 , 580 foreign national offender be return — a 23 % increase on the same period in the previous year — and we be currently on track to remove more foreign national offender this year than at any time in recent year . humanist marriage have be legal in Scotland for 20 year but continue to wait to be legalise in England and Wales . the Law Commission make recommendation two year ago on clarify the law , but when ask to set out a timetable for action , the Minister in the other place could only respond , " in the fullness of time . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 2 December 2024 ; Vol . 841 , c . 910 . ] can the Minister set out the timetable or , alternatively , say when the Government will make an order to end the long wait for humanist marriage ? I understand that humanist have be campaign for legally bind humanist wedding . the Government be commit to strengthen the right and protection available , particularly for woman in cohabit couple . we will look at the Law Commission ' s work and publish our response in due course . gamble with life be a charity that support family who have be bereave by gambling - relate suicide . Jo from Cullompton lose her son Daniel to gamble suicide , and speak powerfully about it . what be the Minister do to ensure that accurate datum be record for each death link to gambling ? may I express how sorry I be to hear of the case of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent ? I be happy to write to he — he ask quite a specific question — but it be important that we provide support to all sort of victim . that be why we have the victim code , which strengthen the power of the Victims ' Commissioner , but I will write to the hon . gentleman on that specific matter . last week , the Court of Appeal overturn a first - instance decision regard the anonymity of a judge who preside over the tragic Sara Sharif case in the family court . I do not expect the Minister to comment on individual case , and it be certainly not about that individual judge , but will the Government use this opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to open justice and press freedom ? as my hon . friend rightly say , I can not comment on that specific case , but we adhere to the principle of open justice and transparency in our legal system . that be why we have the publication of sentencing remark and transcript , and the broadcasting of many of our hearing , so that the public can see exactly how justice in this country be administer . we know that the Attorney General have recuse himself from advise the Government , but he will not tell we what for , and he still refuse to be transparent about potential payment by former client . do the Secretary of State for Justice really not believe that the public have a right to know ? the hon . Lady should know there be robust process in place in government to manage conflict of interest , which be in place under the previous Administration as well , but this be not something that any Government Minister will be give a running commentary on . I call the Chair of the Select Committee , Andy Slaughter . we have just witness the chair of the Criminal Cases Review Commission be prise out of her job , six month after the Secretary of State describe she as " unable to fulfil her duty " . when will a new chair be appoint , and will this be accompany by a wide review of the ccrc , to restore confidence in that damage organisation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that we need to restore confidence in the ccrc . that be why we be take the decision not only to appoint an interim chair to steady the ship but , more importantly , to implement the recommendation of the Henley review so that we can restore confidence in this important institution , particularly in the light of the appalling miscarriage of justice in the case of Andrew Malkinson . with an ever - increase prison population and monumental delay be experience in the court and throughout the justice system , what step be the Secretary of State take to address the significant delay that arise from the period of time require to download and analyse digital material ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . we believe that much more can be achieve through the increase use of AI and other digital technology to speed up some of the paper process that create delay across the criminal justice system . as chair of the Criminal Justice Board , I have ask for a cross - system criminal justice response on this and I will update the House in due course . no doubt we all agree that preventable death should be prevent , and tragedy like Hillsborough and Grenfell must not be repeat because we fail to make change , so what consideration have the Secretary of State give to create a national oversight mechanism to ensure that lesson be learn from every state - relate death ? the Government will shortly be publish the Bill that campaigner refer to as the Hillsborough law , which will reflect issue relate to the duty of candour , which this Government be commit to , and I know that campaigner be make representation to the Home Office on the national oversight mechanism that it be currently consider . can the Secretary of State explain to the House in what circumstance the police and the Crown Prosecution Service be allow to deny access to evidence , after a trial have conclude , to a defence lawyer who be seek to appeal , as have happen in the Lucy Letby case and , I believe , in other ? the right hon . Gentleman will appreciate that , as Justice Secretary , I be not able to interfere in any independent decision make by the police or the Crown Prosecution Service , but he have make his point and I will ensure that it be deal with by the appropriate individual — either the Home Secretary or the head of the CPS . there be serious question about the transparency of the police , the CPS and the Government in the day and week follow the Southport attack . in write answer to I , the Government have refuse to provide the date when the Prime Minister be tell that Rudakubana possess ricin and an al - Qaeda training manual . can the Justice Secretary tell I why ? the Prime Minister have respond to the other question that have be raise . the appropriate information be make available at the appropriate time to either the Prime Minister or the Home Secretary . it be right that the Government do not give any commentary that could have collapse the trial . on the specific charge relate to ricin , that decision require Law Officer approval , which be seek and immediately give . I know that the Justice Secretary be aware of the tragic case of my constituent Sara Sharif . will she consider reform family court and end the presumption in favour of parental contact despite the fact that there be safeguard concern ? that case of that little girl , Sara Sharif , be one of the most tragic of recent time , and I know that that view be share right across the House . that be why a safeguarding review be under way to look at all the agency that be involve and should have be protect that little girl from those who end up kill she . we be look at the presumption : there be a review , and we will consider the finding of that review and publish our response in due course . my constituent , who be a british citizen and the mother of two young child , face the prospect of be force to return to Poland to accompany those child under the Hague convention on the civil aspect of international child abduction , have flee escalate domestic abuse . if she do , her inability to speak the language or work will leave she entirely dependent on her abuser , even though he be bar from contact she . will the Minister work with I to ensure that domestic abuse be explicitly recognise as a valid defence against return order of this type ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and I invite she to write to I about that specific case , which sound like it throw up a very difficult set of factual circumstance that I would like the opportunity to consider . Extremism Review ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department if she will make a statement on the Government ' s extremism review report on today . in our manifesto , the Government set out our commitment to redouble effort to counter extremism , include online , to stop people be radicalise and draw towards hateful ideology . a number of strand of activity have be establish to progress this work , which , among other thing , have lead to the appointment of an interim Prevent commissioner , Lord Anderson , to drive improvement . we have publish plan to introduce youth diversion order to tackle young people at risk of terrorism . many document produce across Government as part of commission work be not implement and do not constitute Government policy . this work do not recommend an expansion in the definition of extremism , and there be not and have never be any plan to do so . to be clear , the leak document be not current or new Government policy . as we have say repeatedly , islamist extremism follow by far - right extremism be the big threat we face . last week , the Home Secretary set out our plan to carry out an end - to - end review of Prevent threshold on islamist extremism , because we be concerned that the number of referral be too low . ideology , particularly islamist extremism follow by far - right extremism , continue to be at the heart of our approach to counter extremism and terrorism . but , as the horrific Southport attack show , we also need more action on those draw towards mixed ideology and violence - obsess young people . as the Home Secretary set out in the House last week , there have be a troubling rise in the number of case involve teenager draw into extremism , include islamist extremism , far - right extremism , mixed and confused ideology , and obsession with violence . this include a threefold increase in under - 18 investigate for involvement in terrorism . some 162 people be refer to Prevent last year for concern relate to school massacre . our five Eyes counter - terror partner have also warn about the grow radicalisation of teenager and young people . we will continue to drive work to counter the most significant extremist threat in the week and month ahead , as the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister have already set out . I call the shadow Home Secretary . yesterday evening , Policy Exchange put into the public domain the Home Secretary ' s review into extremism , or at least a version of it . it contain some deeply concern proposal that I would like the Minister to directly address . the report apparently say that the definition of extremism , for the purpose of Prevent and other programme , could be extend to include the spreading of misinformation , the so - call online " manosphere " and misogyny . first , do the Minister agree with Prevent reviewer William Shawcross that we need to focus the attention of Prevent and counter - terrorism police on those with extremist ideology and not risk dilute attention with these much wide issue ? ninety - four per cent of terrorism - cause death since 1999 be cause by islamist terrorism . do the Minister agree that combat islamist terrorism be more important than police the manosphere ? the wide issue reference , such as violence against woman and girl and more general violence obsession , be , of course , serious . however , they be well deal with by the police , the criminal justice system , social service or mental health service , which have the power to section people that pose a risk . secondly , will the Minister commit to retain the change to non - crime hate incident make by the last government ? Police should not be look into matter or record personal datum where there be no imminent risk of criminality . to do so would waste police time and infringe freedom of speech . any move away from that will enable the thought police to stop anyone tell uncomfortable truth that leave - wing lawyer do not like . finally , the report the Home Secretary commission repeat the Prime Minister ' s previous smear that campaign against rape gang , which we now know consist of pakistani - heritage perpetrator , be far - right . the report also say that comment on element of police policy be extremist and far - right . that be nonsense . campaign against rape gang be not extremist or far right , and comment on policing , whether we agree or not with the comment , be simply the exercise of free speech . will the Minister categorically disown those remark , which be contain in the Home Secretary ' s report ? let I gently remind the shadow Home Secretary that his remark refer to a leak report , which , I could not have be clear , do not and will not represent Government policy . the work , as I understand it — because it be not entirely clear which version of the report be leak — do not recommend an expansion in the definition of extremism , and as I say to the House early , there be not nor will there be any plan to do so . the shadow Home Secretary mention William Shawcross . again , I will gently remind he that this Government have implement all but one of the recommendation in the Shawcross review . he also ask about non - hate crime incident . again , the Home Secretary have be very clear about that : a consistent and common - sense approach must be take with regard to non - hate crime incident . the Government have , again , also be crystal clear that our top priority for police be to deliver on the safe street mission , rebuild neighbourhood policing , restore public confidence and make progress on the ambition to halve knife crime and violence against woman and girl . I must be careful here , Mr Speaker , because I think you be right to allow this urgent question . however , can my hon . friend the Minister explain just exactly why we be here ? it seem to be — I think I can answer that : it be because I have decide . we do not need to pursue it any far . the shadow Home Secretary seem to have come here to ask question about a document that be not government policy and to stand there make indignant statement about issue that be not government policy either . do my hon . friend not think that we should be take a much more level - head approach to this issue than that which have be display by the conservative party ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his observation , which I entirely agree with . this Government and Ministers be always happy to come to this place to discuss and debate Government policy . the leak report be not government policy . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . there be no place for extremism or hatred of any form in our society . it be right that the Government work with community to stamp that out , not least after the previous Conservative Government seem to seek out opportunity to sow more and more seed of division . from what we have hear about the extremism review report , it do not bring the right answer forward and risk be counterproductive . now it be up to the Government to develop a counter - extremism strategy that be strong , effective and alive to the modern challenge face our society . that include address an increasingly complex online world and its role in incite extremism . I would welcome more detail from the Minister on how the Government will do this . to be effective , the work must also properly engage community . will the Minister set out how community will be consult on any upcoming counter - extremism strategy ? I be grateful to the hon . member for her entirely sensible and reasonable question . she be absolutely right to say that there be no place for extremism in our society . this government will work across party , across Government , and use all available lever to ensure that we have the right resource in the right place to tackle what be an increasingly challenging threat . she be right that an important element of that be the work that we need to do and be do with regard to the online space . she will be aware that the Online Safety Act 2023 will come into force soon , and we have consistently say that we will look very closely at how effective that will be , and that where we need to make change we will of course do so . as she can imagine , the conversation continue with the social medium company . we expect they to do the right thing , and where there be illegal content online , to remove it at pace . the hon . member be also right to stress the importance of work with community . that be why counter - extremism work be do properly across Government , with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government as a key partner . I thank the Minister for his unambiguous statement . I have a feeling that he be go to say something along those line , because I read a similar unambiguous statement from the Home Office in this morning ' s newspaper . therefore , I do not understand how the shadow Home Secretary have struggle to follow the Government ' s position . do the Minister agree that the correct way to deal with extremism be to focus on what drive it ? as we hear in the House last week in relation to the Southport attack , weaponry , include knife , have a devastating effect across the country . what step be the Home Office take to restrict access to knife and weaponry for those with extreme view ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . over the weekend , the Home Secretary announce strict age verification check and a ban on doorstep drop to protect people from knife crime . these measure be set to be include in the Crime and Policing Bill , which be expect to be introduce to Parliament by the spring . under these new rule , a two - step system will be mandate for all retailer sell knife online , require customer to submit photo ID at the point of sale and again on delivery . delivery company will only be able to deliver a bladed article to the person who purchase it , and it will also be illegal to leave a package contain a bladed weapon on a doorstep when no one be in to receive it . in the early year of Margaret Thatcher ' s Government , Lord Scarman be commission to write a report on what be — they do not use this phrase at the time — concern among the black community about two - tier policing . in response to those concern , the police listen , change their procedure , and engage in consultative work with those community , so why be it that when community complain about two - tier policing under this government , they be brand far - right extremist ? the right hon . Gentleman will have work throughout his time with our police force — not just as former Home Secretary , in that great office of state , but elsewhere — and I very much hope that he share the admiration and respect — answer the question . I be answer the question . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman share the admiration and respect that we on these Benches have for the incredibly difficult and challenging work that the police do . I have to say that those who seek to progress a narrative of two - tier policing do no favour to our police force . all they seek to do be make it more difficult for those extraordinary man and woman who step forward to serve in our police force to do a very important job . in all the commentary overnight on this leak advice , I be strike by one comment from the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , that be report on GB News . he say : " of course violence against woman and girl and some of the other issue raise in this report … warrant attention by the police " — " warrant attention " ? be it any wonder that sexual violence be allow to become endemic under the previous Government and that the good a previous Home Office Minister could say be that it warrant attention ? the shadow Justice Secretary be a Home Office Minister for a considerable period of time . it might be worthwhile if he reflect on the record of his government while he be a Minister . so this report that have just be leak be commission by the Home Secretary after the Southport horror last July . the truth be that it have come out and all the recommendation have basically be immediately write off by the Home Secretary . do that not confirm that the people in her Department be completely out of touch with her wish and those of the british people ? not at all . the hon . member be simply not correct . this work be be progress before the dreadful incident in Southport . I be sure , and I certainly hope , that he will appreciate that Secretaries of State will routinely commission advice from civil servant . some of the recommendation of that advice will be accept and agree ; some will not , but it be routine practice in government to ask civil servant to look very closely at particular issue . ultimately , it be for Ministers to decide , and Ministers will decide . as interesting as it sound , I have no idea what a " manosphere " be . as far as I be concern , the only real question that the Security Minister need to answer be what action the Government be take to ensure this kind of disgraceful , politically motivate leak to a former Tory adviser can not happen again , especially on issue of national security . we proudly have an impartial civil service , so will he ask the Cabinet Secretary to order an immediate leak inquiry and put on gardening leave those Tory adviser and civil servant who be still work in Downing Street and those who be regard as close associate of Andrew Gilligan ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his helpful point . it be standard procedure in circumstance such as these that the Cabinet Secretary order a leak inquiry , and that would be the right way to proceed under these circumstance . in Keighley , we have see how label legitimate concern around groom gang as far - right have distort conversation , silence victim and inadvertently give space to bad faith actor . it be therefore incredibly concern to see this report write by Home Office official use similar language , call groom gang an " alleged " problem and once again frame this issue through the lens of the far right rather than the eye of victim . do the Minister agree with the language use in the report around groom gang ? if not , how can he , or the Home Secretary , have faith in the Home Office official ? the hon . Member have be consistent in raise his concern in this particular area . I hope he will understand that I be clear early that many document be produce across Government as part of commission work that be not implement and that do not constitute Government policy . to be absolutely clear with he , this be a leak document , but the work do not recommend an expansion in the extremism definition . these be not government plan ; this be not government policy . if the conservative now consider it okay for public servant to leak document relate to national security , I hope they will not object if we see leak on matter relate to their time in charge , such as the risk arise from russian donor to the Tory party and to our great country — whatever happen to british value ? do the Security Minister agree — order . Mr Shelbrooke , your voice have continue even though I don ' t see as much of you these day . thank you , Mr Speaker — I be not surprised Conservative Members be wind up by that . do the Security Minister agree that at least one party in this House need to behave within our value when it come to security , and that security leak be wrong ? all leak be wrong , but let I take this opportunity to say that I be actually very proud of the civil servant in the Home Office , who work extremely hard day in , day out to keep our country safe from a diverse range of threat . a number of Conservative Members here have work in the Home Office , and I very much hope that they share my view that we should be extremely grateful to those civil servant who work around the clock to keep our country safe , and I be grateful for their effort . the horrendous event in Southport show that people who do not fit the profile of islamist or far - right extremism can still present serious risk . do the Minister agree that there be a real danger in the promotion of misogyny and opposition to feminism online and that to combat the scourge of violence against woman and girl , which see one woman murder almost every three day in the UK , the Government must take misogyny seriously as a form of extremism ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady . she make an incredibly important point , and hopefully she will know and understand how seriously this Government take those issue . we make an ambitious manifesto commitment to halve violence against woman and girl over 10 year . that be something that , as Ministers in the Home Office with the Home Secretary and the Safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , we be work at pace to address . we take these matter very seriously , and she be absolutely right to identify the particular challenge that exist online . the Safeguarding Minister will have more to say about this in due course . I be grateful to the Security Minister for his word today . he have successfully expose the report about the leak as the nonsense they be . but there be serious issue here , include around how we respond to the rise level of youth violence and extremism and the increase availability of online material that fuel that obsession with violence and death . will he tell we how the intelligence service be approach this challenge and what more the Government can do to stop young people disappear into this dangerous abyss ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have both recently refer to this , include during their statement on 21 February . she be right that there have be a troubling rise in the number of case involve youth man , boy and teenager who be be draw into extremism . as I say to the House early , that include a range of different area , include islamist and far - right extremism , but also there be a particularly concern rise in those draw into what be refer to as mixed and confused ideology , and those young man and boy who have an obsession with violence . this threat be not unique to the United Kingdom ; it be be experience internationally , but I assure she that the intelligence service and our law enforcement partner be work with Government at pace , along with our international partner , to look at what more we can do in this particular area . may I first echo the Minister ' s point that we should be grateful to those civil servant who be work night and day to protect we from terrorist threat ? I suppose we should also be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for denounce the document , which certainly emanate from his Department , without make any personal criticism of those civil servant . but do that document not demonstrate that a large body of opinion have completely lose its way on how we deal with extremism and terrorist threat ? I urge he to encourage the Department to return to what Prevent be intend to achieve and not get distract by all this political correctness , give that most of the country have no idea what a " non - hate crime incident " be . we need to return to proper language that people understand , or the Government themselves will be drive people ' s disillusion and despair about these matter . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , as always , for his observation , and for his point about civil servant . he talk about political correctness ; have serve together in the House over many year , I hope he know the Home Secretary and I well . fundamentally , this must be about the threat . we will leave no stone unturned to ensure that we have the appropriate level of resource in the right place at the right time , so that the ever - evolve and complex nature of the threat we face — both in the United Kingdom and abroad — be appropriately address by our law enforcement agency . I give the hon . Gentleman a categorical assurance that we will continue to work around the clock to ensure that we protect the public . I thank the Security Minister for clarify the timeline of when this report be commission . we should remember that since it be commission , we have see the brutal , sadistic murder in Southport and the riot that come after they . clearly , we be live in a time of rise and worrying extremism , which should concern member on all side of this House . do the Security Minister therefore agree that member on all side of this House should be work together to deal with extremism , rather than play political game ? my hon . friend make an important point . I hope the House know that it be always my default setting — if you want to put it that way — to try to work collaboratively with member across this House . I give my hon . friend and the House an absolute assurance of the seriousness with which we take these matter . I think member will understand that it be right to commission civil servant to look very carefully at the profound nature of the threat that we face , and to bring forward policy suggestion and solution for how we as a Government be well place to address they . that be what be happen , but this government will always do the right thing to ensure that we protect the public . we have to tread very carefully when we enter into this territory . the leaking of this report have already raise alarm bell with a number of different group , and have give the right another opportunity to spread division and further disinformation . what reassurance can the Minister give campaign group , environmentalist and those who have take up campaign that they will not be include when he finally bring forward his plan in the future ? I be happy to give the hon . Gentleman an assurance that this government will always approach these matter in a level - headed and consensual way . it be the case that previous government seek to use these issue as a political football . indicate dissent . it be the case that previous government be , on occasion , motivate as much by a desire to score political point . that will never be the approach of this Government . we be motivate only by a desire to protect the public . I echo the concern raise by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) . just this weekend in my own constituency , we have an incident in our community with young people and knife . although I can not comment on that particular incident , I be extremely concerned about the availability of knife , particularly to our young people . do the Minister agree that the sale of knife be too easy , particularly online , and can he tell I and my constituent what the Government be do to restrict that availability and the fear it spread in our community ? the Government share my hon . friend ' s concern about the availability of knife online . that be why — as I say to another hon . member a moment ago — just this weekend , the Home Secretary announce strict age verification check and a ban on doorstep drop , in order to well protect people from knife crime . we will do everything that we possibly can , work with online retailer and the police , to ensure that the availability of knife be very significantly reduce in order to protect the public . the repudiation of the content of this report be a step back from thought crime , but the danger remain of two step towards it . be it not outrageous when individual be harass by the police when they have not break the law ? the right hon . Gentleman be right in the sense that , of course , the police should and will be guide by the law . as an experienced member , I be sure he will have work very closely with the police over many year . my experience of work closely with the police be that they make the right judgment for the right reason , but where there be issue that require further attention , the Government will of course look at those matter . it seem that advice to Ministers on national security issue have be leak to a former Tory special adviser , and as a result of that leak the Security Minister have be summon to the Chamber to answer question , even though the leak do not represent Government policy and the Minister have make it clear that the advice have be reject . do he agree that this set a dangerous precedent and may encourage more disgruntled individual to commit politically motivated leak , and that it show that his Majesty ' s official opposition be sadly sink into the mire of populism , which can only undermine our national security and , indeed , our democracy in the future ? as I hope I have make crystal clear , I be always happy to come to this House to debate and discuss matter relate to national security . I will do that whenever the House wish I to do so , but on this particular occasion — as I think I have also be crystal clear about — this leak be about something that do not represent Government policy . there be no place for extremism in our society or country , from anyone . Prevent unfairly associate certain ethnic minority and religious group with extremism , and the programme ' s vague definition of extremism have lead to inconsistent implementation , with concern about overreach . what step be the Government take to address the discrimination and failing in the Prevent programme and make it impartial and effective , to prevent extremism and violence across all of society ? the hon . member be right to say that there be no place for extremism in this country — of course that be the case — but I do not agree with his characterisation of the Prevent programme . that programme consist of some extremely dedicated and hard - work public servant , but the hon . Member will know that the Home Secretary have announce the appointment of an interim Prevent commissioner , Lord Anderson . he will be look very closely at how the Prevent programme work and how it can be make to work more effectively in the future . when tackle extremism — whether violent or non - violent — be the Security Minister satisfy that the current division of labour between counter - terrorism policing and the security service be understand well enough by those two organisation , and be deliver and work well ? I be always very grateful to the right hon . member — he speak with real experience and authority on these matter , and he raise an important and reasonable question . yes , I be happy to give he that assurance ; I work incredibly closely with both counter - terrorism police and operational partner on a daily basis . of course , we look at these thing very closely and keep they under review , and if we think that we need to change the balance in any particular area , we will not hesitate to do so . if the Security Minister think that there be not two - tier policing in this country , then quite frankly , he need to get out more . this report state that anybody who call out two - tier policing be a far - right extremist and that grooming and rape gang be an " alleged " problem . do the Minister agree ? the point I be seek to make early , which I be happy to reiterate to the hon . member , be about the importance that we on the Labour Benches attach to support the police . we think that the police do an incredibly difficult job , and while the hon . Member might think that I need to get out a bit more , perhaps he might consider spend a bit of time with police officer on the beat in his constituency and in his area . if he be to do so , I be quite confident that he would see that they be exceptional people do difficult work under difficult circumstance . there be a real risk that seek to progress this narrative undermine the important work of the police . it be good to see the Minister at the Dispatch Box to distance himself from the conclusion of a report commission by his Department , but report do not leak themselves . why do he think that whoever leak this do not agree with he that there be " nothing to see here " ? ultimately , that be a matter for the leaker , but as I have say , it be standard procedure in circumstance such as this for the Cabinet Office to initiate a leak inquiry . I think that would be the right course of action under these circumstance , so if I be the leaker , I would not be too comfortable at the moment . in draw up a policy , the Minister need to consult with representative of all community , particularly those suffer the bad attack by the far right in Britain , so can he assure we that he will be meet the Muslim Council of Britain and other muslim organisation , and that the policy of non - co - operation with the MCB have be bring to an end , despite statement by his office that there be no plan to do so ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that the Government have a responsibility to consult with all community . of course , that work be share across Government , which be why we work very closely with other Departments , not least the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , which be progress its own bit of work on all this . on his specific point about liaison , there be not a change to the Government policy with regard to that . can the Minister explain why the review appear to focus on the symptom of extremism rather than its underlie root cause ? can he assure the House that that mindset be not direct policy in the Home Office ? I can assure the hon . member that the mindset that direct policy in the Home Office be what the Home Secretary and I think be in our national interest . the Home Secretary and I will use every tool and every lever at our disposal to ensure we keep the public safe . that be what we get out of bed every morning to do , and that be what we will continue to do . I trust the Minister will agree that terrorism in all its form be always deserve only of punishment and repudiation , never of glorification , particularly by political leader . do he therefore agree that it be beyond reprehensible that the First Minister of Northern Ireland , Michelle o ' Neill , continue to attend IRA celebration of the action of IRA terrorist ? just before Christmas , she lay a wreath and speak at the commemoration for three IRA terrorist who blow themselves up with their own bomb . what message do that send on extremism to future generation ? I hope the hon . and learn Member will understand that I do not think that it would be appropriate for I to delve into matter in Northern Ireland in the context of this response . but his remark at the beginning of his question about there never be an excuse or justification for terrorism be a point of consensus around which we can all unite . the Security Minister recently tell I that it remain government policy not to engage with the Muslim Council of Britain . last week , the Minister for Social Security and Disability attend the MCB annual leadership dinner . do that Minister breach Government policy , or be engagement with the MCB now tolerate after all ? the hon . Member ask I a question previously at Home Office oral , specifically in the context of engagement by the Home Secretary and her Ministers . answer the question ! the shadow Home Secretary be chuntere from a sedentary position , but I be literally show the Hansard transcript before this urgent question . [ interruption . ] if he will allow I , I will respond to the question . the hon . Member ask I previously about engagement with the Home Secretary and Home Office Ministers . I clearly can not account from the Dispatch Box for other Ministers ' activity . however , I be happy to look at the circumstance he have raise . I be happy to confirm to he that Government policy have not change , and if there be specific point I need to come back to he on , I be very happy to do so . Extreme misogyny associate with far - right ideology be a major factor in extremism . it should be deal with , to counteract the one woman kill every three day in this country , and to ensure that the horrendous Southport killing , the five killing by Jake Davison in Plymouth and the 51 massacre in Christchurch , New Zealand do not happen again . no one want violence — ideological or political . do the Minister agree that our obsession with focus solely on Islamism have leave repeat government blindside to real threat face we from elsewhere ? the hon . member be right to say that extreme misogyny be , frankly , a disgusting blight on our country . that be why this Government make a manifesto commitment to halve the level of violence against woman and girl . it be an ambitious commitment that have not be make previously . as I tell the House early , the Home Secretary and the Safeguarding Minister be work at pace to seek to address these issue . it be a big priority for the Government , and we intend to make good on the commitment we have make . I thank the Minister for his answer and , in particular , welcome his commitment to support the police , which he have mention a few time . I have great concern that the revival of non - crime hate incident will mean more work for our overstretched police force , and that it will mean get involve in a war on offensive word , rather than the war on drug , the war on terrorism or the war on violence against woman and child . will the revival of non - crime hate incident come with a substantial increase in police funding , and if so , where will that come from ? I be grateful to the hon . member , as ever , and I be very grateful for the support that he have provide to the police over many year . let I seek to reassure he , because the Home Secretary have be clear that a consistent and common - sense approach must be take to non - crime hate incident . the Government have be crystal clear that our top priority for policing be deliver on our safe street mission . Airport Expansion ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Transport if she will make a statement on Government policy on airport expansion . I know that the hon . Member feel passionately about the issue of airport expansion , but I would like to make it clear that the press story that have generate this urgent question be speculative and I can not comment on their content — [ interruption . ] but we do have a world - class aviation sector in the UK . the Government be commit to secure the long - term future of the aviation sector , and we recognise the benefit of the connectivity it create between the UK and the rest of the world . it be a sector that I be incredibly proud of . in 2022 the air transport and aerospace sector directly provide around 240 , 000 job in the UK , of which just under 1 , 000 be in aerospace . in 2023 the air transport and aerospace sector directly contribute around £ 25 billion to gross domestic product , of which around £ 14 billion be from the air transport sector and around £ 11 billion be from aerospace . we have be clear that any airport expansion proposal would need to demonstrate that they contribute to economic growth , be compatible with the UK ' s legally bind climate change commitment , and meet strict environmental standard on airport quality and noise pollution . there be currently no live development consent order application for a third runway at Heathrow airport , and it be for a scheme promoter to decide how it take forward any development consent order application for that runway . the Government would carefully consider any development consent order application for the third runway at Heathrow , in line with relevant planning process . the Secretary of State be currently consider advice on Luton airport and Gatwick airport expansion . as these be live application , I can not comment on they far today . I understand the concern of many member of the House about how airport expansion may be compatible with our climate change target . I would like to assure they that the Government have commit to deliver green transport through sustainable aviation fuel and airspace modernisation . this will help meet the UK ' s net zero target , and it support the Government ' s mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower . airport expansion will need to be consider carefully alongside these commitment . I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question , and I thank the Minister for his response . it be vital that Parliament be not sideline when the Government form new policy , especially policy that could wreck our climate ambition . do the Minister understand that expand London ' s airport and build a third runway at Heathrow would be vastly irresponsible in the midst of approach climate breakdown , and would literally be fly in the face of the Climate Change Committee ' s advice ? how can Ministers even be consider that , when 2024 be the year that we go over 1 . 5 ° warm — the limit that we commit to not break in the Paris climate agreement ? how can minister see catastrophic wildfire in California , deadly flood in Spain last year , and devastating flood this year in the UK , and still pursue a wrong policy ? yesterday , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero tell the Environmental Audit Committee that " any aviation expansion must be justify within carbon budget " . can the Minister explain why we be hear trail announcement of multiple airport expansion , exactly in the month before new advice from the Climate Change Committee be deliver ? the committee could not have be clear in previous report that without a framework to manage aviation demand , we should not expand airport . have he see research from the New Economics Foundation estimate that approve airport expansion plan for Heathrow , Gatwick and Luton airport alone will serve to cancel out the carbon saving of the Government ' s clean power action plan ? the Government ' s argument that I have see appear to rest on the idea that there be new technology ready to go that will cut carbon emission and allow large airport expansion . in reality , do the Minister accept that such innovation , many of which be still not ready for commercial use , can not be rely upon ? will he act in line with the science and our climate commitment , do the responsible thing and rule out a reckless airport expansion policy ? there be always a trade - off to be have , if application come forward , between noise , carbon and grow our economy . we recognise that Heathrow have operate at over 95 % capacity for most of the past two decade , which have present limited opportunity for growth in route network and passenger number . we live in an interconnected world , where people want to visit their family member and do business across our planet . this Government have move fast in the first six month than the previous Government do in 14 year , by introduce the sustainable aviation fuel mandate , so that 2 % of all fuel source from 1 January this year must come from a renewable source . where be the hon . member when we introduce that in this House ? it be one of the most forward - think , sustainable measure that we have bring to this place . in the next few month , as part of his Majesty ' s legislative agenda , we will be introduce the revenue certainty mechanism to create a world - class SAF industry here in the UK . I hope to see the hon . Member support the Government from the opposition Benches as we clean up our transport sector , our aviation sector and our economy as a whole . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . a third runway at Heathrow have significant implication for UK - wide growth , for our carbon commitment , and for the 600 , 000 people who will live in the new 54 db corridor of significant noise pollution , as well as air pollution . do the Minister agree that such an announcement should be make in the context of a national aviation strategy ? if he do , when will we see it ? I thank the Chair of the Transport Committee for her question . the airport national planning framework under the last Government have not be update for some time , and we will shortly bring forward proposal to do that as part of our package . while there be currently no development consent application for Heathrow , we have be clear that expansion proposal would need to demonstrate that they contribute to economic growth , be compatible with our climate change target , and meet strict environmental standard for air quality and noise pollution — the four test . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in recent day we have hear that the Chancellor be about to announce her support for airport expansion at Luton , Gatwick and Heathrow . his Majesty ' s opposition be supportive of airport expansion because we recognise the huge economic benefit that would bring . for Luton and Gatwick , as the Minister have say , planning process be well under way , but the situation at Heathrow be rather different . a complete third runway at Heathrow would undoubtedly bring economic benefit , which we would support , but deliver that will not be straightforward because there be major logistical barrier to its construction . those include , but be not limit to : hundred of thousand of additional people be bring on to Heathrow ' s flightpath ; the potential for significant disruption to the M25 and M4 , which could harm the economy for year to come ; the fact that a large incinerator be in the way and would have to be demolish ; and the need to address local concern about noise and air pollution . the uncertainty do not end there , because to date Heathrow have not apply for a development consent order , and neither have it confirm that it intend to do so . that all leave the Minister with many question to answer . what assessment have he make of the impact of build a third runway on the M25 and M4 , which be two of the busy motorway in Europe ? how certain be he that any propose plan will have the support of affected community ? what be the estimate cost , and who will pay not just for the runway construction , but for the massive additional work that will need to be do , include , among other thing , reroute motorway , demolish the incinerator and rebuild it elsewhere ? perhaps most importantly , what assurance can he provide that there will be an application for a development consent order ? I sincerely hope that the Minister can answer those question , because if he can not it will be clear that this be not a serious policy , but rather a panicked and rush attempt by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to distract attention from the state of the economy , which be currently wither under this flounder Labour Government . well , the brass neck ! the last Government crash the economy , send mortgage through the roof , and call an early election to avoid have to make difficult decision . transport policy should be enable growth as a priority in this country , so that we can bring about the change that the british people vote for . for 14 year we have a Government who have become so sclerotic in aviation , and indeed maritime — that be also part of my brief — that no decision be bring forward on decarbonise the maritime or aviation sector , or make the difficult decision that this country need to make . as the hon . Member rightly say , there be currently no development consent order before we , and that be for Heathrow or a related party to bring forward . for I and for you , Mr Speaker , there be more than an element of d é j à - vu in this debate . the Minister have say that what we have hear be speculative , but the Chancellor ' s statement seem to be more authoritative than that . have the Department provide the Chancellor with an assessment of where the 8 , 000 to 10 , 000 people in my constituency who will have their home demolish or render unliveable will live if Heathrow expansion go ahead ? have the Minister map for the Chancellor the flightpath of the additional quarter of a million plane fly over the home of people in those marginal seat of Uxbridge , Watford , Harrow and elsewhere ? have he advise the Chancellor on some of the figure that be be bandy about regard the economic benefit , which seem to derive from Airports Commission figure that be out of date and that his own Department rubbish very thoroughly in recent year ? my right hon . friend be a doughty campaigner for his constituent , but there be no DCO at the moment and we do not know the impact — that will be a matter for Heathrow or a third party to bring forward . I would like to hear a more full - throate support for our airspace modernisation plan , which will improve resilience , capacity and flexibility when it come to aircraft noise over affect community . when it come to growth , my constituency , as you well know , Mr Speaker , have see £ 2 billion of the Manchester MIX scheme at Manchester airport , with the development of the Hut Group and the most advanced Amazon fulfilment centre on the planet . we know that aviation bring growth and job . we know that there be a trade - off to be have , and we will have those conversation if a development consent order be bring before we . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Minister give an admirably delphic yet still disappointing answer . while we must grow the economy , we must not do so at the expense of the environment . expand Heathrow , Gatwick and Luton airport will drive , or even fly , a coach and horse through our climate commitment , add 92 million tonne of carbon dioxide to our carbon footprint by 2050 . do not just take my word for it : the Mayor of London ; his previous deputy Mayor for transport , now the Transport Secretary ; the Environment Secretary ; the Chief Secretary to the Treasury ; and the Prime Minister have all previously be oppose , as be the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . can I ask the Minister three question ? first , why have his boss , the former London deputy Mayor for transport , change her mind ? secondly , how can the Government reconcile this massive growth in carbon emission with our climate commitment ? thirdly , why , if the Government be look to grow our economy , be they not re - engage meaningfully with Europe by negotiate a custom union ? that last one floor I ever so slightly . " Delphic " , the hon . Member say — or ambiguous and obscure , which be slightly like liberal Democrat policy on aviation . they be one foot in , one foot out , shake it all about . they say one thing to one community under a flightpath , and another thing about job to another community under a flightpath . whatever I say will end up on the Focus leaflet , but they can not have it both way . they can not support growth , job , airspace modernisation and sustainable aviation fuel and then say to their constituent , " look what this terrible government be do . " we have a firm plan for aviation in this country , and we be go to carry it out . do the Minister agree that plan for the third runway have go cold over the past decade , since the airport commission ? as he say , there be not even an application for a development consent order . do he agree that there be no chance of spade in the ground this Parliament ? if there be , that be when the problem would really start . for too long and on too many issue , this nation just have not make the tough decision . when it come to airport expansion , our world - class aviation sector , admire across the world , and decarbonise our sector , we be make huge progress — more in the past six month than in 14 year under the Tories . we will continue on our mission of renew the national airport strategy , and will look at development consent order as they become live . that be a quasi - judicial matter , and I can not comment on Luton and Gatwick , as member know . we will wait to see whether Heathrow or a related party bring forward a development consent order . Manston airport in Kent in my constituency have be fallow and the subject of legal action for far too long , but that be happily now behind we . we hope and expect that within the next few week , there will be announcement on funding that will lead to the development of a state - of - the - art net zero airport in Kent . Manston do not appear to feature in the Government ' s plan . can the Minister assure I that his eye be on that ball , and that Manston will become part of the growth programme ? I have speak to the right hon . member about Manston in opposition and in government . we wait to see what will be bring forward there , but it could be an exciting opportunity , particularly for cargo ; we could have zero emission vessel ship content into the port of London . we will wait and see whether the airport come with a development consent order , and we will judge that on its merit . I be old enough to have be there the last time this question be vote on . in the spirit of Gordon Brown and his test over the euro , we apply test of our own on capacity , carbon commitment , minimise noise and environmental impact , and ensure benefit for the whole UK . can the Minister tell I whether those sensible test still apply ? can he add another one , about cost to the public purse and deliverability , for my constituent , who will be the most affected ? they want a well , not a big , Heathrow . I re - emphasise that there be no development consent order for Heathrow at the moment . we know that for all airport , surface access be essential . the public transport penetration rate within an hour be key to the market that airport can access from across the planet to support their growth . we have a world - class transport system in the south - east , but in any development consent order , Heathrow or its related party will have to prove how we can get new people to that site . if , as we expect , the Chancellor announce her support tomorrow for a third runway at Heathrow , that will be a massive u - turn from the Prime Minister ' s previous position , and it be patently clear that a third runway will fail all of Labour ' s four test — on growth across our region , on climate , on air pollution , and on noise pollution . the economic and environmental case be in tatter , and no airline want to foot the bill for a third runway . will the Minister concede that any such announcement would simply be virtue signal by a Chancellor in search of growth where she will not achieve it , and would damage our environment and our community at the same time ? I support the Chancellor ' s pursuit of growth . for too long , we have be stagnant , and we know that this area can provide growth . I have see that in my constituency , as I have point out . where be the hon . member when we talk about sustainable aviation fuel ? where be she when we commit £ 63 million to the advanced fuel fund to help the SAF industry grow in this country ? we have announce £ 1 billion for the Aerospace Technology Institute to look at zero emission flight . would it not be great if , one day , a Minister could stand here and say that all internal flight will be zero - emission ? I want to leave my successor , whoever they be , the opportunity to say that within the next decade . many of my constituent in Ealing Southall work at Heathrow or in its supply chain , and they will welcome the good - quality , well - pay job that airport expansion will bring . however , I have other constituent who worry about the environmental impact of any expansion . in take any decision on this matter , will the Minister ensure that he balance the need for growth and for good - quality local job against the need to minimise air pollution and noise pollution ? what a terrific question . [ interruption . ] well , it be . it hit the mark , in that there be a trade - off between noise , carbon and grow our economy for our people . airport create high - pay , trade - unionise job , not just because of the aircraft that come in and out , but because of the ground handling service . we know that aviation community be much well off because of the job that be create , and we have to balance the trade - off in the year ahead as we make tough decision to grow our economy . I remind the Minister that sustainable aviation fuel be not an answer to poor air quality , which be the main reason why attempt expansion at Heathrow have fail in the past . it be also the reason for the Chancellor ' s trenchant opposition to the expansion of Leeds Bradford airport , which would affect her constituency . have be around since the day of the terminal 5 planning inquiry , I find it clear that the business case for Heathrow expansion rest on significant cost be impose on taxpayer . they would be expect to foot the bill for the impact on the M4 and the M25 , and for the loss of a waste incinerator that provide energy for many local authority . can the Minister assure the House that any DCO for Heathrow that come forward will be subject to no less rigour and no less consultation than those bring forward in the past ? I can assure the hon . gentleman of that . SAF be stick in the muck under the last government ; we wait year for announcement , and we have do more on that in six month than Tory Administrations do in 14 year . we be invest in clean up aviation fuel and funding technology on contrail , so that the air people breathe be always as clean as we can make it . in a spirit of cross - party collaboration , I praise the shadow spokesperson , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , for expertly outline some of the logistical challenge of heathrow expansion . it be a surprise and a shame that the Tories do not answer those question before vote for expansion in 2018 when in government . do the Minister agree that any future application for Heathrow expansion — we do not yet have one — must address and solve those key issue , look at those logistical challenge , and say how expansion be compatible with our climate commitment , and with local concern about air quality , pollution , noise and congestion ? my hon . friend be exactly right . our four test remain , and they have to be pass . again , we be speculate that a development consent order will come before we . I be sure that he , as a doughty campaigner for his constituent , will make his voice hear . the economic benefit of the expansion of London airport remain unproven . on Heathrow , the Department for Transport ' s update appraisal report show that the net present value of a third runway range from just £ 3 . 3 billion to minus £ 2 . 2 billion , while Heathrow ' s finance be of severe concern , due to the significant debt that it have incur . what new economic analysis have the Government consider that make a third runway at Heathrow viable when consider alongside their commitment on climate , noise and air quality ? I say again what I say early : capacity in London be at 76 % on average , and at 95 % at Gatwick and Heathrow . what be the liberal Democrat answer to that ? do we not want people to fly across the world to bang the drum for british business ? do we not want they to visit their friend and family ? be the Liberal Democrats for constrain people ' s fly ? there be a lot of question , but no answer from Liberal Democrat Members . I vote against the framework for Heathrow airport in 2018 because I be not satisfied that the legislation before we would deal with air quality , noise , climate change and surface access issue . do my hon . friend agree that if we be to go ahead with a third runway at Heathrow , we must satisfy ourselves in this House that those issue have be address , and that they can not be set aside by developer once they have permission to go ahead ? my hon . friend be exactly right . those test must be meet , include through the development consent order . just for the record , I vote for the framework in 2018 , because I think that it pass those test . many of my constituent in Wetherby and Easingwold use leed Bradford airport , and the same will be true of the constituent of the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) . for year , I have want expansion of Heathrow so that morning flight from Yorkshire could come down to Heathrow airport , allow transatlantic flight to be board in Yorkshire . may I urge the Minister , when consider the expansion of Heathrow , to always give firm attention to regional airport , especially leed Bradford airport in Yorkshire ? it would allow the economy to grow significantly if people could check in at Leeds and get off in New York . I could not agree more with the right hon . member , though it pain I to say it . we have five great northern runway stretch from John Lennon to Manchester , Leeds Bradford and Newcastle , and we should be focus on regional connectivity in particular . on Leeds Bradford , my recollection be that because of the lack of decision making by the last government , confidence be lose in its development . let we see if we can get a framework for improve connectivity at Leeds Bradford , include for those in the constituency of the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) . I come to London yesterday by rail , as usual , and I must say that both Lumo and London North Eastern Railway be do a fantastic job of get people out of plane and on to train between Edinburgh and London . [ interruption . ] I always like to talk about train . I be concerned that any increase in air capacity will take people off train and help they make less sustainable transport choice . will the Minister commit to speak with the Rail Minister to understand any impact of airport expansion on that service ? my hon . friend be exactly right : we have to join up the mode of transport . we have have a break transport system as a result of 14 year of complete under - investment . whether we be talk about rail connectivity to Glasgow , what will happen if a Heathrow development consent order come forward , or just get northern train work across the north of England , link up Leeds Bradford , Liverpool , Manchester and Newcastle will be a key start to improve job and growth at those airport . in order to meet the problem of increase demand for flight , what be the Government do to improve rail connection with western Europe , include direct train to Germany as well as Holland ? I think that that involve fix the problem with Eurostar . we be see other come into that market , and European Union colleague be run overnight long - distance train service , which be reduce the need for aviation across the continent and reduce carbon . we should be ambitious as a country that we can tap into that network . the right hon . Gentleman be right on this matter . Newcastle International airport tell I that Heathrow expansion would mean increase access to global market for north - east business , new destination for north - east tourist and easy access to our brilliant north - east university for student from around the world . more broadly , give that air travel ' s 5 % of emission be dwarf by road travel emission , do the Minister agree that the important work that his Department be do to promote electric vehicle and the work that the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be do on the decarbonisation of the electricity network be fundamental to demonstrate to my constituent that address climate change be not about say no to travel and transport , but about say yes to an economy that work for people and the planet ? we have make tough decision about the phasing out of internal combustion engine up to 2030 . when I visit Newcastle airport , I see a wonderful operation — it be also produce solar energy to power its operation . we need well connectivity between Newcastle and London , and I have raise that with carrier . if we be to develop our offshore wind , carbon capture and green energy technology , it must be link up with the cruise industry , Newcastle airport and the great north - east coast that provide so many job , service and industry for people across our nation . I have be enjoy the Minister ' s lively presentation , but then I do not live under a potential new flightpath . be the government consult their Back Benchers about the possibility of aviation and airport expansion versus net zero ? if so , will they be advise they to clean up what they have say on this subject on the internet before it be hoover up by the Opposition in preparation for the next general election ? there have be a lot of AI news in the press today . I say gently to the right hon . Gentleman that I grow up under a flightpath in my home town in Wythenshawe and Sale East . I grow up under the BAC - 111s , the trident , the Concordes and the Guppys . [ interruption . ] I see that my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Withington ( Jeff Smith ) agree with I . I remember how dirty , noisy and smelly those plane be . technology have come forward leap and bound , and the noise envelope around most of our airport have reduce considerably . through our investment , we hope to improve the technology far under this Government and the next . this weekend , the Sunday Times feature a great cartoon by Morten Morland show the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the Energy Secretary tear up a whitehall office look for the growth lever . I be a supporter of the Welsh freeport programme and airport expansion where there be environmental mitigation . will the Minister please say more about the Government ' s sustainable aviation plan and the use of low - carbon tech to help economic growth ? I thank my hon . friend for his support for growth at our port , which include our maritime port . there be £ 63 million for the advanced fuel fund and £ 1 billion for the Aerospace Technology Institute to look at net zero emission . we have already introduce — it be almost the Government ' s first act out of the gate ; it come into force on 1 January — the SAF mandate , so this year 2 % of all fuel will have to be from a sustainable source , and we will shortly legislate on the revenue certainty mechanism to kick - start the SAF industry in the UK . the Government could not have do more in the six month we have have in office . I note that the Minister do not mention noise pollution in his statement . as he grow up under a flightpath , I hope that he enjoy the noise . eight route currently pass over my constituency , sometimes after midnight . my constituent struggle with the noise — one say that it be like have an uninvited dinner guest every night . it not only disturb sleep but have profound health implication . with that in mind , be the Minister go to ignore the health impact of a third runway ? I can not comment on the third runway because there be no development consent order before we , but the hon . Lady make an extraordinarily valid point about noise . that be why the Liberal Democrats should get behind we and support airspace modernisation . we have an analogue system in a digital age , which be design more for the day when Yuri Gagarin go into space than for today . we can give people under flightpath more choice in future by differentiation , if we have a well system of airspace modernisation . my local airport , stanste , be a huge employer for resident in my constituency , and it be have lead the way in develop sustainable aviation fuel . do the Minister agree that sustainable aviation fuel be vital to achieve our decarbonisation target ? sustainable aviation fuel be vital to meet our climate target . I commend Manchester Airports Group , which include Stansted and East Midlands , and Manchester in my own constituency , on its work to decarbonise . it be ahead of the game . it fly one in six people in and out of the UK . when it get it right , that represent a huge emission reduction . do the Minister agree that one of the many benefit of a third runway at Heathrow be that it would require the removal of one of the large waste incinerator in the country ? when this matter come before he , will he ensure that there be no reprovisioning of this monster in a densely populate area , but that we see its deletion altogether so that we deal with waste in a truly sustainable way ? there be no DCO currently . if one come forward , I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman will make his voice hear . I be grateful to my hon . friend for repeat what we hear from the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero at the Environmental Audit Committee yesterday : that no plan will be approve unless they be in line with the Government ' s environmental commitment . my hon . friend can not comment on Gatwick and Luton because they have a live DCO , and he can not comment on Heathrow because it do not have a live DCO , which be handy . let I ask he about something that he can comment on . what change will we make to ensure that any airport expansion plan be in line with our environmental commitment ? can he explain more about what the offset will be to ensure that the Government be able to meet the commitment that he have confirm they will make ? I thank my hon . friend for his chairmanship of the Environmental Audit Committee , of which I be a proud member for many year , look at the circular economy , which this Government be take forward . the Government have commit to deliver green transport , include through SAF , airspace modernisation and the other measure that I lay out . I be proud of that range of measure . the Front - Bench across this Department be decarbonise the transport sector far and fast in the first six month of this Government than in 14 year of the last . the Minister have make a great deal of the position of my party on Heathrow airport . as he be such a fan of our Focus leaflet , I be sure he will know from my own that I have consistently raise airport noise , opposition to the expansion of Heathrow , sustainable aviation fuel and airspace management in this place . how will he make the airspace management plan fit with any forthcoming emission and capacity management framework ? we have yet to hear from the Government about that , but the liberal Democrats consider it vital to the future sustainability of the air transport industry in this country . I be generally very grateful for the Liberal Democrats ’ support for airspace modernisation . it be complicated and difficult . we be throw our hat over the wall in try to reach it . it will be easy in certain part of our country than other , but we have already take action . we set up the airspace modernisation design service . we be bring the good and the bright together . if we can make the plane fly in a straight line , we will use less carbon . it be the low of low - hang fruit for carbon reduction in the aviation sector , and we be move at pace on it . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to the aviation sector . the closure of Doncaster airport on 30 December 2022 , with the loss of 800 job and the smooth access to flight in the country , be devastating . the reopening of the airport have be a long - fight campaign that have the backing of my constituent in Bassetlaw . today , they will be say : " bring the flight and the infrastructure to our area . " will the Minister put his shoulder to our campaign ? without a doubt . People be proud of their airport . mine be 80 year old a few year ago , and I see people turn up in drove to show their pride in aviation in this country . I feel sorry for the people of Doncaster , Sheffield and the environ when they lose their airport . I commend the mayor , the council and the local mp who have lobby I relentlessly on this matter . the council now have a deal with the operator , and the first flight take off very recently . I wish they every luck with it , and they will have my full backing to do what need to be do . like my right hon . friend the Member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) and other , I want to focus on the role of our regional airport . surely the Minister would agree that the expansion of some of they could help the Government ' s growth agenda and provide a boost to local economy . with improved rail connection , many of our regional airport could serve traveller to and from London . the work involve could be complete long before a DCO for Heathrow could be conclude . airport near the hon . member ' s constituency will have a key part to play for worker across our nation with respect to the decarbonisation agenda and sustainable fuel , because Immingham sit within his constituency . that will be key to the UK ' s plan to decarbonise our economy , along with good rail connectivity . airport be a market within the private sector — plane want to go to particular place — but if we can expand and grow our economy across all our region , as we hope to , I hope that this will be a golden age for all our airport . my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) be correct to say that this feel like d é j à vu . here we be again , debate huge transport infrastructure expansion in the south - east of England while constituent right across this country , especially in the north - east , think , " what about we ? " do the Minister agree that if expand transport infrastructure in this country be the key to growth , that growth must happen everywhere ? I agree . as I have say , airport that make the right decision in the next few year on improve the airspace and improve their connectivity through surface access all have the potential to grow like my airport have grow exponentially . I urge member to get behind their airport and support their growth and decarbonisation agenda . globally , half of aviation emission be a result of flight take by the wealthy 1 % . in the UK , 70 % of flight be take by the rich 15 % . be expand aviation capacity not a matter of fairness ? it will facilitate the very rich , who be already frequent flyer , to be able to fly more , while the noise , carbon emission and air pollution impact will be inflict on the most ordinary people in society , include the poor at home and around the world . I think it be Woody Allen who say that 80 % of success in life be turn up , and I must gently ask once again where the hon . Gentleman be when we be introduce the sustainable aviation mandate in this House . I hope he will be here when we introduce the revenue support mechanism in the month ahead and decarbonise our aviation sector . I think people have the right to go on holiday at least once a year , to do business across the planet and to visit friend and family . I be not sure what the hon . Gentleman ' s policy be . if he want to send they to I , I will put they on one of my labour rose . follow on from the question from my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) , do the Minister agree that it be important to also support regional airport in the north , include Doncaster airport ? the reopening of the airport be support by all my neighbouring parliamentary colleague . together with my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , I be work with Doncaster council and the South Yorkshire combine authority to get this critical piece of transport infrastructure back . the growth agenda will be a success only if place like Doncaster feel it too . it be important that the people of Doncaster and South Yorkshire can take off once again . I have to say , my hon . friend be so tenacious on this matter that I sometimes go pale when I meet she in the Division Lobby , because every day she ask after it . she be such a campaigner on it . I see she go around party conference lobby the industry and airline to do what her constituent send she to Parliament to do and to try to come up with a solution for her local airport . I can only commend her tenacity to the House . will the Minister confirm what compensate measure the Government will take , if airport expansion be to go ahead , to ensure adherence to carbon budget ? they must have already be agree on by now . I thank the hon . Gentleman for his consider approach in all these matter . I be pleased to receive he at the Department the other day to talk about a particular constituency issue that relate to Gatwick . we do not have a development consent order , but noise and pollution be the test to meet our climate commitment , and they will remain the test . it will be up to the Chair of the Transport Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , and member across this House to hold the Government ' s foot to the fire on this matter . the reopening of Blackpool airport for commercial flight be a top priority for my constituent , as I have raise previously with the Minister . do he agree that we need to work with our regional airport to deliver the growth and the job we need in place such as Blackpool that be forget about by the previous Government over 14 year ? what a breath of fresh air my hon . friend be in his by - election , and he be now on these Benches , campaign for his airport in Blackpool . I be really look forward to visit the airport and to my night out there — I hope that will come with fish and chip on the prom , as well . the expansion of Heathrow feel a bit like the Schr ö dinger ' s cat of expansion at the moment — it be both happen and not happen , depend on what one ' s perspective be today . I realise that the Minister will not be tempt to comment on Gatwick either , as it be a live DCO process . give that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , and the Minister have both assert that growth be an inevitable consequence of airport expansion , can I ask the Minister what evidence he have to support that assertion ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , but I do not think I will take any lecture from Liberal Democrat Members about sit on the fence . Theirs be the politic of lick their finger , put it in the air to see which way the wind be blow , and then put it in a leaflet . there be no development consent order for Heathrow yet . I be sure the hon . Lady will have her opportunity to raise her concern at a later date in this place . I could not agree more with the Minister when he point out that any airport expansion have to be part of the overall picture of upgrade Britain ' s break transport network . Bracknell sit on the reading to Waterloo train line , which pass through Feltham , just south of Heathrow . journey time on the line have not improve since the ' 70 , and there be no direct connection to Heathrow . will the Minister assure I that any plan to upgrade airport will be part of the overall picture of an integrate plan ? my hon . friend be exactly right . I be not usually quite so divisive at the Dispatch Box , but we inherit such a broken system it be almost untrue , such be the thing we be find out about the sclerotic nature of the previous Government . the Roads Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , be invest £ 1 . 6 million in fix pothole , while the Minister responsible for bus , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , have invest £ 1 billion in bus . we be move fast . we be fix thing and we be deliver . as a fellow Greater Manchester MP , the Minister will undoubtedly know that Manchester airport welcome 30 million passenger through its door last year , and that 84 % of those passenger come to and from the airport by car . he will rightly acknowledge the valid concern across the House today about the impact of airport expansion on carbon emission . the carbon footprint of Manchester airport come only partly from air travel , as a lot of it come from road travel . what update can the Minister give my constituent on surface access improvement at Manchester airport , so that they can get to and from the airport , whether as passenger or to work , by bus or by train ? well , the conservative build a road , but it just flood all the time — maybe we can start by deal with that . the hon . Lady be right that Manchester airport be in my constituency . mine be actually the most visited constituency in the north of England ; in fact , 30 million people visit it last year alone , although they may not have stay as long as I would have like . the airport have be on an incredible journey , especially with its decarbonisation . I hope to meet the airport operator shortly to continue that journey with they . it be right that in this debate we all champion our local and regional airport , include Birmingham International . however , the reality be that no other airport be a serious rival to the long - haul hub capacity that Heathrow provide , and its exhaustion of that capacity be a block on growth in every region of the UK . do the Minister agree that redirection of that pen - up demand to Schiphol and Dubai be no good for the national account and no good for the environment ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he be a very good campaigner for his local airport and for the public service obligation flight out of that airport . not make these tough decision do not mean there be no carbon — it simply mean that customer vote with their foot and go to Schiphol , Frankfurt or Charles de Gaulle to hub out to their destination . we have to look at thing in the round when we be talk about decarbonise the UK aviation sector . give the hugely contradictory evidence on whether expand airport capacity will boost GDP growth , will the Minister explain how the Government can justify prioritise airport expansion over much - need substantial investment in green travel and public transport , which would benefit the economy in the long term and benefit a far wide group of people in this country than the very small group of wealthy frequent flyer who will benefit from airport expansion ? I be hear that member on the liberal Democrat Benches be against wealthy people and against our constituent fly , in some case . there be no big champion of active travel in this House than I — except for my ministerial colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell — and I hope to do a lot more on that when it come to port and airport . all people , regardless of their income , should have a choice about how they get around . we have a break system over the past 14 year , which mean people have no choice . now , they be get well bus , their pothole be fix , and we be invest more in active travel than ever before . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) make an excellent point about hub airport . at the moment , there be 19 flight between my local airport in Newcastle and Heathrow , but 30 a week between Newcastle and Amsterdam . I dare say that some people from the north - east may wish to sample the unique delight of Amsterdam , some will certainly be use Amsterdam as a hub airport , instead of Heathrow . that be bad for our economy , bad for passenger , and , because it be far away than Heathrow , bad for the environment , too . be it not right that we build hub capacity in this country because it be the good thing to do environmentally ? I also understand that you can have a good old party on the ferry from the port of Tyne to Amsterdam — I do not know whether my hon . friend have take it . he be exactly right . if we do not invest in a hub airport in the UK , people will go point to point outside the UK to transfer to the place they want to go to . that be bad for carbon emission than we take responsibility for the decision we need to make to decarbonise our aviation sector . I welcome the support the Minister have give to the Chancellor today . he have make it quite clear , if the speculation turn into reality , where he will stand on the issue . that be important , give the need for hub airport to export our good , build business link and give people the personal freedom to travel across the world . but be he concern , give the Energy Secretary ' s obsession with net zero , the large number of member who seem to be more concerned about long - term climate prediction , uncertain as they may be , than the immediate need of growth and job in this economy , and the potential for lengthy court battle because of our statutory commitment to carbon dioxide reduction , that no investor will look at these project but will instead continue to look at hub airport in the rest of Europe ? I thank the right hon . member , who I know be a campaigner on this . I keep a close eye on all matter of connectivity to Northern Ireland . investor confidence in aviation be huge : investor be queue up and look for opportunity . we must ensure those opportunity come with job and growth , but also that they be clean and decarbonise our sector . I say stick with the plan . we will decarbonise the grid and our UK economy , but we can grow it at the same time — the two thing be not contradictory . do the Minister agree that it would be irresponsible to kick the can down the runway on airport expansion and other major infrastructure when this country be desperate for growth ? we need a Government willing to take the tough decision to overcome the blocker and get thing build in the national interest and in the interest of citizen all around our country . I can not agree more . the Government ' s define mission will be growth . the aviation sector be one where we can grow the economy , because it provide the connectivity and the high - skilled , trade unionised job that support family and career right across our country . before the Minister ask I where I be during the sustainable aviation fuel debate , I be here . have 22 % saf by 2040 still mean 78 % fossil fuel in aircraft fuel — an awful lot . my constituent be impact by Bristol airport expansion . I meet regularly with my local group stop Bristol Airport Expansion group . they want to know what impact assessment have be make of the cumulative effect of the additional carbon emission that will be create by all the propose airport expansion plan take together . I thank the hon . member . she be actually right , and well do to she for be there during the SAF debate and support the Government . at the moment , the technology do not exist to fully decarbonise aviation . we be look at hydrogen , we have the advanced fuel fund and we be invest £ 1 billion in the ATI , but , as the Prime Minister announce recently when he go to Merseyside , we be invest billion in carbon capture and other technology to offset those emission . that be what we will have to do in the near future , but I envisage a day when we will have aircraft in our sky , particularly internally in the UK , with zero emission come out of their tailpipe . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to growth . I also welcome their commitment to take the difficult decision require to generate it . we know that any conversation about a third runway will focus on the south , but I would like to ask about the north . may I ask the Minister , in my capacity as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Yorkshire and northern Lincolnshire , if the project be approve , what will be do to ensure that all region benefit from the proceed of the growth generate ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and , even from this Lancastrian , for his chairmanship of the APPG for Yorkshire . I will say a couple of thing . we have five great northern runway , and we need to begin to improve their capacity and connectivity . that be key to regional economic growth . hopefully , whoever come forward with the DCO for Heathrow will , as they have in the past , look at spread the wealth and at logistic hub right not just around our country , but Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . my local community , include Flamstead , Markyate and Wheathampsted , be already plague by Luton airport and very worried about expansion . if the Minister can not answer question about evidence for a positive impact on growth and the economy , can he at least guarantee that the Government will listen to their own climate expert and have a framework in place before any airport expansion ? yes , be the answer . we will come forward , very shortly , with a policy framework . we have not have one for many year . it be more than time to update it — the hon . Lady be right . I very much welcome the Minister ' s answer — they have be both confident and progressive , which be encouraging for I as the MP for Strangford . my constituent have express some concern about the impact on the environment of the potential expansion , but it have be highlight to I that build for plane to land , so they do not have to circle , be highly beneficial for the environment . will the Minister confirm that our environmental obligation have be fully consider in any decision that be make for the potential expansion of Heathrow ? will there be — I know the Minister will say yes , but I want he to say it on the record — more domestic connection with Belfast International and Belfast City airport ? the hon . member be such a doughty campaigner that I think he have an urgent question in the House a few week ago when his plane be cancel ! " well do , " be all I can say . that day we have a really good question and answer session on connectivity in Northern Ireland . we have two great airport in Belfast , and Derry / Londonderry ' s airport serve the north - west . his first question be about plane fly in a straight line — an obscure piece of policy , which be in our manifesto , call airspace modernisation . we can cut up to 10 % , 20 % and , I be tell in the case of some easyjet flight , even 30 % of carbon emission by just get plane to go in a reasonably straight line and not circle around . it introduce resilience at airport and make the passenger experience much well . I hope those on the Opposition Benches will support the policy when it come to this place . I thank the Minister for his very full answer to question , which mean I be now on the seventh or eighth version of my question . [ laughter . ] there be two point I would like to explore . first , on emission , SAF will only ever be a transitionary fuel . what effort be the Government make to engage with industry to develop truly zero - carbon power plant , and harness our incredible industry and our company that can take advantage of the opportunity to lead the real zero - carbon hydrogen electric power plant ? secondly , on noise , the Minister mention airspace modernisation , which will mean some resident face great noise frequency and impact . do he agree that the answer to the first question , on next generation power plant , be actually the answer to the second question on noise ? please , will he give we a proper answer on what the Government be do to take advantage ? that be the problem when a new Member be call last , but he be agile — mentally on his foot — to get that in . we be invest in hydrogen zero - emission technology , with £ 1 billion for the ATI . I hope the hon . Gentleman be sit on the Opposition Benches in the month ahead when we implement the revenue certainty mechanism , so we can kickstart a new age of SAF production in the UK that will bring job and growth right across our great country . I thank the Minister for his response . Gaza : Humanitarian Situation with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will update the House on the ceasefire agreement in Gaza and detail our late effort to get aid to those in desperate need . this be a fragile ceasefire , but it bring much - need hope for israeli and palestinian people . the agreement to end the fighting and release the hostage be what this Labour Government have be press for from the moment we come to office . I thank Qatar , Egypt and the US for their tireless effort , and echo the Prime Minister in wish Emily Damari and the other former hostage well as they begin to recover from their horrific ordeal . we continue to call for the immediate release of all those still wait to be reunite with their love one , include the remain hostage with link to the UK . civilian in Gaza have endure suffering that defy belief , and this deal bring hope that they can start to rebuild their life . in the day since the gun be silence , Israel have open up mechanism to surge in aid . the UN and aid organisation have be work tirelessly to deliver the humanitarian aim of the ceasefire agreement . after so much time wait at the border — delay that I see for myself in December — truck be now stream in . partner on the ground report that more than 200 , 000 food parcel have be dispatch to more than 130 distribution point since the ceasefire . this government have be at the forefront of the humanitarian effort in Gaza since we come to office — overturn the suspension of funding to UNRWA , and then boost our support ; assist UK - Med field hospital to help the injure ; work with Egypt to support those medevac - ed out of Gaza ; and provide vital resource to UNICEF and the World Food Programme . today I be pleased to announce that the UK be invest in the ceasefire . UK support will be distribute to the UN and key medical partner , so that ten of thousand of civilian receive the healthcare , food and shelter that they need . that support will amount to £ 17 million to get more aid into Gaza and restore service . the figure also include £ 2 million for the World Bank to support the construction and restoration of critical water and energy infrastructure . the UK have already help about 284 , 000 people in Gaza to access water , sanitation and hygiene service . today ' s uplift bring our commitment for the Occupied Palestinian Territories and palestinian refugee in the region to £ 129 million this financial year . I be also pleased to announce that , this morning , jordanian air force helicopter start land in Gaza with UK - fund medical supply and logistical support from UK armed force . I thank Jordan for its excellent commitment to get aid in , in such challenging circumstance , and we will continue to support our jordanian partner in this initiative . however , more action be need . the air bridge to Gaza be no substitute for road route , which must remain open . we also call on Israel to allow in more essential item such as tent , mattress and medical equipment . as people start to move home , basic service need to be put back in place , and unexploded bomb and mine clear . without that , even more life will be lose — and , of course , the UN and humanitarian agency must be able to operate freely . the Government have repeatedly state the need for UNRWA to continue its lifesave assistance to the people of Gaza , Jerusalem and the west bank . the Knesset legislation take effect on 30 January risk impede the progress make since the ceasefire ; Israel must allow the agency to continue to operate . the legislation do not and can not change the fact that Israel have a responsibility under international law to facilitate humanitarian assistance . as the UN Security Council hear last week , 1 million Gazan child need support to process their traumatic experience — their suffering can not be understate — and about 15 , 500 patient need medical evacuation , accord to the World Health Organisation . route must be open for they to obtain that treatment . the UK and the wide international community stand ready to support Palestinians as they begin to rebuild their life , their home and their community . we be under no illusion about the scale of the challenge ahead . the overwhelming majority of home in Gaza be damage or destroy , the economy have collapse , and basic service , include energy and water , have be knock out . we be therefore work with partner urgently to find the good way in which to finance and support recovery and reconstruction effort . it be essential that the come surge of assistance be properly co - ordinated , and with the access and security to reach those in need . the Palestinian Authority have a crucial role to play , and we be provide technical and financial assistance to the authority , include assistance to support the urgent recovery of basic service . the UK have always be clear about the fact that this ceasefire be just the first step . we must build confidence on all side to help sustain it , progress through all its phase , and turn it into a last peace that assure the security of Israelis and Palestinians alike . we in the UK will focus all our effort on keep up the momentum , use every diplomatic channel available . as member will know , the Foreign Secretary and the Minister for the Middle East keep up the drumbeat of engagement during their visit to Egypt and the United Nations last week . we will keep up the pace until every hostage be release , aid reach all those in need , and Palestinians be able to rebuild their home and their life . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . since the savage terrorist attack of 7 October 2023 , all of we in this House have call for the release of all hostage hold by Hamas as the only way of reach a sustainable end to this abhorrent conflict , and to alleviate the enormous scale of the humanitarian suffering . we now feel both the anxiety and the hope of the family who have wait , anticipate the release of the remarkably brave woman hostage who have be return thus far under the ceasefire agreement , include , of course , the british - israeli hostage Emily Damari . I pay tribute to the family of all the hostage for their unwavering campaign to secure the release of their love one . they should never have be put through this unimaginable nightmare . we do , very sadly , learn yesterday that eight hostage would not be return home alive , have be kill at the hand of Hamas . that be devastating news for hostage family who continue to face unbearable uncertainty in the day and week ahead . there be a long road ahead , and — as we have already hear from the Minister — we want the ceasefire agreement to hold , but we stress that every single hostage must be release . the important issue of humanitarian access remain , and , as the Minister have say , we must ensure that the House receive relevant update both on the hostage release and on every single diplomatic tool that Britain have when it come to remove the barrier to get the hostage out and also get the right amount of aid in . we all see on our television screen yesterday the scene of thousand of Gazans return to the north , where , as we recognise , the situation be extremely difficult . can the Minister give a breakdown of the volume and type of aid that the UK be send , and how its impact will be measure ? notwithstanding the delivery by helicopter that she mention , be she confident that british aid be get over the land border as expect , and be be effectively distribute to help those in need ? as for the £ 17 million that she mention , can she clarify whether it be new money or part of money that have be release from previous funding allocation ? can she also tell we which organisation the money will support ? the Minister rightly refer to UNRWA . while no one can doubt the size of its distribution network , we can not ignore the problem within the organisation . it be in no one ' s interest to pretend that they have not happen . we know the fact : UNRWA staff and institution have be infiltrate by Hamas , and there have be shocking allegation of UNRWA staff involvement in the 7 October attack . follow the United Nations ' internal investigation and the subsequent sacking , the Colonna report and reform need to be implement in full . be the Minister oversee that in order to give our public , as well as donor country , more confidence in UNRWA and the efficacy of its progress on the vetting of its personnel , and on procedure to protect the neutrality of its operation and facility ? will she share with the House the evidence of the work that have take place ? in July , the Foreign Secretary announce £ 21 million for UNRWA , and the Prime Minister announce £ 13 million last month . what measure be in place to ensure that every penny of british taxpayer ' money be go to those most in need and not be abuse by Hamas ? without lose focus on the challenge of the immediate term and phase 1 of the ceasefire , the Government also need to be think about what come next and lay the right foundation for the reconstruction and development that need to take place in Gaza . this be a huge task . what discussion have the Government have with regional neighbour ? what role do the Minister envisage for the UK ? will Britain be contribute financially ? be she push for multilateral institution to be involve ? on the future governance of Gaza , I have say that I would like to hear more about the Government ' s day one plan . the Foreign Secretary previously tell the House : " there can not be a role for Hamas . " — [ Official Report , 16 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 516 . ] I echo those word , but the sicken sight of Hamas gunman parade around hostage just last weekend cause great alarm . what step be be take to end the reign of terror that Hamas have unleash ? the Minister mention the Palestinian Authority . if they be to assume responsibility in Gaza , what action will be take to ensure that they be reform ? they must make serious , measurable and tangible reform on education , welfare policy and democracy . finally , everyone in the House know that the root cause of so much suffering in the middle east be Tehran and the iranian regime . could the Minister speak about the effort this Government be make to work with the international community on a robust strategy towards the iranian regime ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her support for the approach be take by the UK Government . I agree with she about the savagery of the 7 October attack and the suffering that have be undergo by the family of the hostage . I meet the brother of Emily Damari when I be in Tel Aviv . it be difficult to find the word to reflect on that experience and what he be go through at that time . I meet the family of other UK - link hostage when I be in Tel Aviv , and their suffering continue as they await the return of their love one , which we be all hope for fervently . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for underline the need for the ceasefire to hold . we need to see that move through phase 1 into phase 2 . it be imperative that those measure be hold to by all side and that we see all hostage be release and then , as she say , the surge of aid into Gaza that be so needed . we will keep the House update on the diplomatic measure we be take ; we have be do that consistently across our team in the fcdo , and we will continue to do that . the right hon . Lady ask whether we be confident that aid will get to where it be need . yes , we be . much of the contribution we have announce today be go from the crisis reserve into the pool arrangement , which be a system design to ensure that support be go directly into shelter , food and medical supply . it be critical we ensure that that support be available directly . the right hon . Lady ask about UNRWA . we have speak about this before , but to reiterate , when the UK resume its support for UNRWA , we be very clear that the finding from the Colonna report have to be implement . in fact , £ 1 million of the £ 21 million that we provide to UNRWA at that point be earmark to support that reform programme . I have discuss this directly with the head of UNRWA , and I know that my colleague have do so repeatedly . I have also discuss it with UNRWA staff in the region , and I see for myself that work , particularly around neutrality , when I be in the west bank , so I can assure the right hon . Lady of the UK Government ' s commitment in that regard . the right hon . Lady ask about reconstruction and what conversation we have be undertake in that regard . we have be work with the international community and have many discussion with partner bilaterally about this . of course , the most important thing be for the ceasefire to hold — I know she would agree with that — but when it come to reconstruction and recovery , we have be particularly work with the World Bank . she may be aware that it conduct a rapid need assessment , which be a very helpful process , and that be be update . we have also be have those discussion intensely with the Palestinian Authority . the right hon . Lady will be aware that Sir Michael Barber , who have incredible expertise , have be support by the UK Government to work with the PA . I have see his work , and I discuss it directly with the PA when I be in the west bank . it be , indeed , aim at those measurable , tangible reform , precisely in the area that she mention . finally , the right hon . Lady ask I to underline the UK Government ' s position that there will be no role for Hamas . absolutely , I will do that again from the Dispatch Box , and the Foreign Secretary have make that very clear indeed . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . could she expand on the technical and financial assistance that the UK be provide to the Palestinian Authority ? we know that there be ten of thousand of tonne of unexploded ordnance . what be happen about that ? finally , what intervention have the Government make about the imminent closure of the UNRWA warehouse on the west bank ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise those issue , as she have do consistently . first , in term of how the UK be work with the Palestinian Authority on these issue , that support have include financial assistance around the reform programme but also the direct technical support around the reform programme that be necessary . substantial reform be need . there be a clear plan that have be drive by the Palestinian Authority , but we be determined to provide that technical support , and we have be do so . the issue of unexploded ordnance be of huge concern , particularly as we see people come back to their home , because there be a great danger that , in do so , they will be impact . there be a need for education and awareness raise around this , but there be also a need to remove that materiel ; that be very important . the UK have be work with other country and internationally on how we can ensure that that be the case , so that these community be safe to return to . finally , my hon . Friend ask about the storage of UNRWA supply . we be very clear , as we have be before , that UNRWA must have a key role in deliver humanitarian support and health and education service to Palestinians , whether that be in Gaza , the west bank or the wide region . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I join colleague in support effort to uphold the ceasefire agreement and release the hostage . I wish to express my heartfelt condolence to the family of the eight hostage who have be kill by Hamas while take hostage , and I join Members of the House in call for the immediate release of all those still wait to be reunite with their love one . I want to denounce statement make suggest that Palestinians should be forcibly displace from their home to other region in the middle east . the only clearing out that should be take place be of the unexploded ordnance across Gaza , where UN de - mining expert estimate that 5 % to 10 % of all ordnance be unexploded . what support be the UK Government provide for the safe de - mining of the region and for the unaccompanied child , of whom there be estimate to be 17 , 000 ? israeli legislation cease UNRWA ' s operation be due to take effect this Thursday , pose a huge risk to the humanitarian response and the delivery of education and primary healthcare . dismantle UNRWA now , outside a political process , will undermine the ceasefire agreement , sabotage Gaza ' s recovery and weaken the international humanitarian response . what step be the Minister take to ensure the continuity of humanitarian aid to the Occupied Palestinian Territories , give the ongoing existential threat to UNRWA ' s operation ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the point she have make . I wish to join she in express sincere condolence to the family of those eight hostage who will not be able to be back with their family , as be their right , and as so many of we hope would be the case . their family must be suffer intensely now . the hon . Lady ' s point about displacement be well make . the UK position be very clear : the UK believe that international humanitarian law must be hold to and that it must be feasible and , indeed , a reality that gazan be able to return to their home , include in northern Gaza . that have consistently be the UK Government ' s position . the hon . Lady ask about mine clearing and unexploded ordnance . as I say , it be really important that those area be safe for people to come back to . I speak with some specialist in this area last week . I know how meticulous and difficult the work of remove unexploded ordnance be . the UK be actively engage with expert and consider what role we might be able to play , but above all , we be ensure that there be a co - ordinate approach to this across our partner and international institution . the hon . Lady ask about child . the situation for child have be a priority for the UK Government , as it be for the previous Government . we have ensure that support from UK - Med be provide for child . unfortunately , we have see the pressure on child ' s health come through . the UK be heavily involve in seek to deal with polio through the vaccination campaign , and we will continue to ensure that we do what we can to support child , particularly follow the trauma that they have experience . finally , on the issue of UNRWA , the hon . Lady be absolutely right : the deadline be come up speedily and be in two day ' time . the UK Government remain absolutely committed to our position that no other organisation can operate at the scale or depth of UNRWA . it be absolutely essential for provide both direct humanitarian supply and health and education service to Palestinians , and we will continue to make that very clear , as we have do repeatedly , to our israeli counterpart , multilaterally and to our other partner as well . I be glad to hear of the uplift in funding for Gaza , and I share the Minister ' s serious concern about the effective ban on UNRWA come into force this week . of course , 60 % of the food that have enter Gaza during the ceasefire have be deliver through UNRWA , which play a vital lifesaving and stabilise role in the west bank by provide education to 50 , 000 palestinian child , as well as healthcare , clean water and rubbish collection . what reassurance have the Minister have from Israel that if UNRWA can no long operate , there be a viable and humane alternative way of get support to the Palestinians ? like other member of the House , my hon . friend have considerable experience of these issue , with a background in humanitarian service . the UK Government be very clear that UNRWA underpin the entire humanitarian response in Gaza . it have a vital role in deliver the uplift in humanitarian assistance that we need to see follow the ceasefire and , as she rightly mention , education and health service . we be oppose to the Knesset legislation that be previously pass , and we call on Israel to work urgently with international partner , include the UN , so that there be no disruption to this vital work . may I commend the Development Minister on her statement to the House today ? I think she would agree that it continue the drive and commitment of the last Government . I particularly applaud she for make it clear that the policy of the British Government be that any plan for the future governance of Gaza will involve a reform Palestinian Authority and categorically rule out any role for Hamas . in a week when we have see the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz and the release of terrified young hostage , do she agree that it be deeply depress that antisemitism be alive and well , and often express through hatred of Israel ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his remark , and I be indeed grateful for the work undertake by the previous Government when it come to humanitarian support in this area . obviously , we have seek to build on that and deepen it , and to make sure that we be at the forefront of our responsibility in this area . I be happy to confirm that he summarise the position of the UK Government when it come to the future of Gaza . it must be a future that be determine by Palestinians and Gazans themselves , with the PA have a role , but not Hamas . on the issue of antisemitism , in this week of all week , we must redouble all our effort to ensure that we never forget the horror of the Holocaust , and that we always resolve to combat any form of prejudice and discrimination , include antisemitism . may I thank our colleague on the Front Bench for the work that they have do , and for the commitment that they have show ? to ensure that we do our good to deliver , today ' s focus on Gaza be critical , but my concern be that Gaza could easily be destabilise by what be happen in the west bank , particularly the invasion of the Tulkarm refugee camp in the last few day and the killing of further Palestinians . may I ask our Government to make representation to the israeli Government to show restraint and to prevent the further loss of palestinian life through attack by the IDF ? as my right hon . friend rightly say , stability in the west bank be crucial to ensure that the fragile ceasefire in Gaza can last . all side must work to ensure a lowering of tension in the west bank at this time . I can reassure he that we have continue to call on the israeli authority to exercise restraint , adhere to international law , and clamp down on the action of those who seek to inflame tension , which be in no one ' s interest . before the current crisis , construction in Gaza be make much more difficult by the surprisingly long list of proscribe material , which include thing like drain pipe , which Israel fear could be use as componentry for weapon and be understandably uncomfortable with . what can we do to ensure that the strip can be rebuild , with all the material that will require , while give Israel reassurance on diversion of material by Hamas — or what remain of it — and other iranian proxy ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for ask that critical question . he be right to suggest that a key enabler of Gaza ' s recovery will be the ability to get good and material in at the require pace and scale . our position be that the enable condition for early recovery must be provide in the come week , include secure access corridor , which be really important , and the resumption of basic service . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and the announcement of additional vital UK support for Palestinians at this crucial time , and I join she in recognise the central work of Jordan . will she join I in condemn the legislation pass against UNRWA by the israeli Knesset , which jeopardise the entire international humanitarian response in Gaza ? what concrete action will our Government take if the israeli Government move ahead with implement that legislation at the end of this week ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for underline the role of Jordan . on both my visit to Jordan , I see for myself how commit the Jordanians have be to ensure that aid get into Gaza . we be really grateful to they for that , and for the partnership that they have show with the UK . when it come to the legislation on UNRWA , the UK Government have be very clear that the decision by the Knesset be wrong . it will undermine the ceasefire and prevent the delivery of much - need humanitarian aid , and prevent the delivery of education and healthcare . that be why , once again , we call on Israel to change tack and not implement the legislation . over the weekend , President Trump insert himself into the debate on the future of Gaza and its people by say , " you ' re talk about probably a million and a half people , and we just clean out that whole thing . " be it the Government ' s view that he be talk about the forced displacement or ethnic cleansing of almost 2 million Palestinians from their land ? if that be not the Government ' s understanding of what he mean , what exactly be their interpretation of what President Trump say ? the UK Government recognise the critical role that both the current and previous Administration in the US play in obtain the ceasefire , as well as the effort of Qatar and Egypt . on the hon . Gentleman ' s question about whether gazan be able to return , they must be allow to return . that be very clear under international humanitarian law , as he know . I thank the Minister for come to the House with this statement . I be sure that member across the House be watch to ensure that this agreement last , and that people can return to their home and build some sort of future . tomorrow I be due to meet the Kennington Bethlehem Link , a voluntary group in my constituency dedicate to help Palestinians catch up in the conflict . it have raise with I the alarming situation in the Aida camp , an UNRWA - fund refugee camp between Bethlehem and Jerusalem . sadly , the Israel Defence Forces have repeatedly vandalise the camp and intimidate worker . the Minister have outline the situation on UNRWA funding . give that Israel be due to sever tie with UNRWA later this week , can she please look at urgently direct any support that the UK can give to the Aida camp ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the critical role of UK civil society in support people , whether in Gaza , the west bank or the broad region . that really be incredibly important . I be also grateful to she for raise the issue of aid worker ’ safety . this have be the most deadly conflict for a very long time — in fact , I believe since record begin on these matter — for humanitarian worker . of course , the UK Government will look closely at where our support be be provide , as I say to the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , and ensure that it be get to where it be need . we see horrendous scene at the weekend of Hamas terrorist parade the brave hostage before they be return , and shoot fellow Palestinians for alleged collaboration . also , the Hamas leader and his team have vow to return to rule Gaza , and to carry out repeat atrocity like those that be commit on 7 October . that show that Hamas be not go away . it be quite clear that they be determined to get back in control in Gaza . we all agree that Hamas should not be in charge of Gaza , so the key issue be : how will that be achieve ? I agree with the hon . member on those scene . the Foreign Secretary have be very clear about this , include from this Dispatch Box . the UK Government ' s position could not be clear : Hamas be a terrorist organisation . it must not play a role in future arrangement for Gaza , and we will seek to work with all our international partner , and indeed with the UN , towards that end . while Hamas be busy smuggling weapon , and spend money building tunnel in which to hold hostage ahead of their barbaric attack on 7 October , the people of Gaza rely each and every day on aid come in . for those of we who want a two - state solution with a peaceful and prosperous Palestine , will the Minister set out her assessment of the long - term role that UNRWA can play in that , and how we can ensure that aid get to those who need it , not to the terrorist who be try to take it away ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the importance of the lodestar of the two - state solution , which we must always aim at . Israelis and Palestinians rightly deserve a state of security , and the sovereignty that he be committed to . on the role of UNRWA , we have have many discussion with its leadership and other international partner . ultimately , a two - state solution would enable the normalisation of the economy that be need , and hopefully a shift away from the humanitarian problem there have be for so many year . my hon . friend mention reconstruction , and we be discuss that with a number of UN partner , but I would again mention the World Bank , which have be do so much work , particularly on how finance can be access . of course , a precondition for that be the ceasefire hold , which we continue to push for . accord to the UN , 1 . 9 million people in Gaza be currently displace , which be 90 % of the population . half of they be child . how will the Minister work to secure the right of return and self - determination for Palestinians in Gaza , especially in the light of the call from the US President to " clean out " Palestinians from the region ? the figure that the hon . member quote be right , and in some case Gazans have be move up to nine time because of recent event . she describe Gazans as have the right of return , and I would underline that word " right " . they do have that right . that be clear under international humanitarian law , and it be a right that the UK will seek to ensure become a reality . we must build confidence on both side to help sustain the peace , but how be we go to do it ? there be 70 , 000 family who leave Palestine before the war and never get back . many of they still have their key . I have see friend and family who never get back to see their grandparent , or who get back once a year . how can we build anybody ' s confidence to move out of the destruction , particularly in northern Gaza , while it get rebuild ? we can not do that . how will we build the confidence of the family and love one of the hostage who be still be hold there ? they fear that Netanyahu will sacrifice they so that the war will return ; the IDF say that there will not be a second phase of this peace . how do we build confidence ? my heart be with everybody involve . I know that people want peace , but these be the fact . we have to identify and resolve the risk . I do not know how we will do it . God know . the passion with which my hon . friend speak be share by many member in this House . it can sometimes be almost impossible to see a way through , particularly after a conflict in which so many thousand of people be kill , but it be the UK ' s responsibility , work multilaterally with our partner , to reach towards a peaceful future in which there be two state , and Palestinians and Israelis can live in security . we must aim towards that . it be particularly important for all of we parliamentarian , and the UK Government , not to shift away from this crisis as the medium coverage start to diminish in day and week to come . we must keep up the pressure , so that we can ensure the future that the Israelis and the Palestinians deserve . deradicalisation must form a key plank of any plan for reconstruction in Gaza , along with ensure that Hamas have no role in its future running , as the Minister say . however , a sickening reality on the ground be that in textbook and school curriculum in UNRWA school in Gaza , there be material that promote antisemitism , that incite hate against Jews and Israel , and that promote violence . unless we stamp out that hateful incitement to violence that be be put in front of schoolchildren in Gaza , there can be no successful and peaceful future . what be the Minister do in her conversation with UNRWA to stamp that out in its school ? the issue of what be often call the neutrality of UNRWA be incredibly important , and I have discuss it in detail with the leadership of UNRWA . I have also go to see this in practice , to understand the reform that have be undertake . we talk previously about the important Colonna report , which set out practical step to deliver that neutrality . the UK Government have directly support that ; we earmark £ 1 million of funding for it — part of the £ 21 million that we announce some week ago — so we be absolutely committed to this , and to those reform be not just implement , as many of they have be , but sustain . no one can fail to be move by the powerful scene of Palestinians return to their home in Gaza , even though their home have be reduce to rubble by israeli force . of course , it be important that we do everything we can to rebuild Gaza , but justice for war crime be also important . do the Minister agree that we must stand up to all those who wish to undermine the International Criminal Court ' s investigation and do all we can to ensure that justice be do ? I think we have all see on our television screen those scene of Gazans return to their home , which in many case have be destroy or heavily damage . of course , many of those people will also have lose family member , so this have be an incredibly difficult process for many Gazans . my hon . friend talk about the International Criminal Court , and the UK Government have make it absolutely clear that the UK respect the independence of the International Criminal Court . rise — I will finish this statement at quarter past 3 . please can question be a great deal shorter and , with respect , Minister , the answer as well ? I welcome the Minister ' s statement . the suffering of civilian in Gaza be extreme , and I share her call for the immediate release of all those still wait to be reunite with their love one . do the Minister agree that we urgently need accountability for the israeli Government ' s violation of international law , as exhibit in the restriction of access to tent , mattress , medical equipment and so on ? do she acknowledge that the only way we will make meaningful progress towards reconstruction effort and long - term peace be to hold the israeli Government to account for these action ? the UK be fully commit to international law and respect the independence of both the ICC and the ICJ . yes , there must be access to such supply . I thank the Minister for her statement and the announcement of additional investment in aid to Gaza , which be very welcome . I have visit UNRWA school and healthcare facility in the west bank , and the role that UNRWA play in the provision of essential service , include aid to Palestinians , be unique and irreplaceable . the implementation of the Knesset ' s decision to ban UNRWA could therefore amount to the denial of health service , education and essential aid to a population that have already suffer unbearably for the past 15 month . can the Minister say not only that the UK Government oppose the decision , but what will be do to hold the israeli Government to account for the impact of that decision , if it be implement later this week ? the UK have already act to make it clear that there must be a resolution to this urgent issue . we have join ally in express our deep concern about the Knesset ' s vote on UNRWA . we have urge Israel to ensure that UNRWA can continue its lifesave work , include at the UN Security Council on 6 November , 11 December and 3 January . today be the ninth day of the siege on Jenin in the west bank by israeli force accuse of war crime . with over 3 , 000 Palestinians forcibly displace , Jenin hospital under lockdown without water or electricity , and at least 14 people kill by the Israelis since the beginning of the ceasefire in Gaza , the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights have say that it be deeply concerned by the use of unlawful , lethal force in Jenin , include multiple airstrike and apparently random shooting at unarmed resident . can the Minister tell the House what specific and concrete step the Government be take or will take to facilitate an end to Israel ' s siege and ethnic cleansing in the west bank ? the hon . Gentleman ask about the UK Government ' s representation in relation to the west bank , and we have be very clear that the risk of instability be serious and the need for de - escalation be urgent . we continue to call on israeli authority to exercise restraint , to adhere to international law and to clamp down on the action of those who seek to inflame tension . I welcome the Minister ' s update on the Government ' s effort to get aid to those in need in Gaza . give the serious allegation of war crime occur in Gaza , what step be the Government take to ensure that they be properly investigate and that those responsible be hold to account ? as I have say , the UK be fully commit to international law and respect the independence of the ICJ and the ICC . any such determination on the conduct of war by whichever party would be take by those independent body , by expert and by judicial actor and lawyer , not by government . in follow your request for brevity , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I ask the Minister when be the correct time to recognise Palestine as a state ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the UK Government be commit to recognise Palestine , but we be commit to do so in a manner that ultimately support the peace process . the Foreign Secretary set that out in detail from this Dispatch Box just a few day ago . when the Ukraine war start , a mechanism be put in place for the evacuation of injure child from Ukraine to hospital here to ensure that they have appropriate treatment . it seem to work effectively , and it be the right thing to do . in the light of the ceasefire in Gaza and the fact that northern Gaza ' s healthcare facility have be decimate , will the Government now instigate a scheme for the seriously injure child of Gaza , include orphan , as we do for Ukraine , by establish a system to ensure that they can be bring here for medical treatment ? it be vital that Israel ensure sustained passage for patient who need treatment that be not available in Gaza during the first phase of the ceasefire . we announce £ 1 million for the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population , deliver through who Egypt , to support Palestinians medically evacuate from Gaza . official from all relevant Whitehall Departments be explore avenue to ensure that our support well meet the need of critically ill people in Gaza . we welcome the release of the hostage , though for eight family it will be a sad day as they realise that their love one be murder in captivity . Israel have take considerable risk by withdraw troop , open border and agree to the ceasefire , while Hamas continue to attack in the west bank and continue to humiliate hostage to show that they be in control . give that Hamas have previously use aid to exercise control of the palestinian population , and give the huge link between UNRWA and Hamas , what step be the Minister take to ensure that UK aid be not use by Hamas to re - exercise control in Gaza ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the devastating time that the family of those eight hostage be go through . it be really terrible , and it be important to underline that . at the same time , there be extreme relief for those who have be able to return to their family . the UK have consistently work hard on this . we need to ensure that aid get to where it be really need . we have be work on that with a number of UN agency , as well as with body like UK - Med . at the weekend , President Trump call for a " clean out " of the Gaza strip , propose to forcibly deport Gaza ' s more than 2 million palestinian inhabitant . that would amount to ethnic cleansing and a crime against humanity . will the Minister join I in condemn President Trump ' s remark , and will she set out what action the UK Government would take to prevent the ethnic cleansing of Gaza ? I refer my hon . friend to my previous remark . the UK Government have be very clear that Gazans must be able to return to their home . that be a matter of international humanitarian law . despite genocide , displacement and destruction , Palestinians be return to northern Gaza and remain rooted in their land . in respect of President Trump ' s remark , the Minister have be ask a number of time about what appear to be yet another forced displacement . what be the position of the Minister and her Government in respect of President Trump ' s remark ? I have say perhaps five time that the UK Government be absolutely clear that Gazans must be able to return to their home , include in northern Gaza . that be a very clear matter of international law . I thank the Minister for her statement and her even - handedness , both in state the british Government ' s position on increase aid to UNRWA and in confirm that there can be no role for Hamas in future governance . the UK have a strong track record of bring people together across community to build peace , no more so than in Northern Ireland . what lesson on support for civil society and peacebuilde in Israel and Palestine will the Government draw from the last Labour Government ' s experience in Northern Ireland ? my hon . friend be right to be clear that the UK have considerable expertise in the area of peacebuilding , as it do on so many other question that we have be discuss this afternoon . it will be important in future that we do all we can as a country to pursue that goal of peace : the two - state solution that we talk about before . however , we must , in these immediate month , make sure that the ceasefire be hold too . the fundamental issue be Israel ' s occupation of Gaza and the west bank . what assurance have the Minister have from the israeli Government that they will withdraw all their force from Gaza and that they will eventually , if not soon , withdraw from the west bank to allow the palestinian people to decide their own future in peace ? I have discuss many of those matter directly with israeli Government counterpart . I have also be to the west bank so that I could understand the situation with illegal settlement more directly . the UK Government ' s position be very clear : illegal settlement be illegal . they be not allow under international law and we remain determined to make that very clear , not just to the israeli Government but to all our other partner and multilaterally as well . I thank the Minister for her statement and for the Foreign Office ' s diplomatic effort in secure the early release of Emily Damari , which we have all be hope and pray for here in the House . will the Minister assure the House that she will use those same diplomatic effort to secure the early release of british - relate hostage in phase 1 and to ensure that the next phase of the deal be agree ? we be absolutely determined to do all that we can to ensure that the UK - link hostage who remain — Eli Sharabi , Oded Lifshitz and Avinatan or — be bring home to their love one . we call for their immediate release and will do all in our power to secure that . no one can gainsay the need for humanitarian aid , but look forward to the reconstruction phase , what enforceable assurance be there that aid provide by this Government will not be divert to rebuild terrorist tunnel , as happen in the past ? can the Minister trust the United Nations Relief and Works Agency when it come to that , give its record and give the suggestion that tunnel be build under its very headquarters and that there be a data centre there flow off UNRWA ' s electricity supply ? can we place trust in an organisation with such a record ? absolutely , the prevention of diversion of aid , not just in this context but more broadly wherever the UK be provide aid , be incredibly important . we take it very seriously indeed and we will always seek to ensure that there be absolutely watertight control around that , wherever UK taxpayer ' money be be use — as it be here — to support some of the people most in crisis on earth . the hon . Gentleman ask about the issue of UNRWA ' s neutrality . we have cover that previously in the statement , but I just point again to the work that the UK have undertake by provide support for UNRWA to implement the Colonna report . there be about a million child in Gaza . to put that in context , we have about a million child in Scotland too . before I be elect , I work for Save the Children and I have meet the child of the palestinian refugee camp . of course , we welcome the ceasefire , which be long overdue . those child now face homelessness , hunger and a lack of access to medical supply , not to mention a disruption in their education . all child ' s life be equal , whether they be scottish or Gazan . what be the UK Government do to protect the child of Gaza at this time ? we be deeply alarmed by the disproportionate impact of the conflict on child in Gaza . my hon . friend talk about education , and I will just mention that area , in the interest of time . he be right about the extreme disruption : at least 88 % of school building will need full or major reconstruction and most , if not all , student in Gaza have not have access to education since 7 October . the UK have be support work on that , include through the UN Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs and UNRWA . rise — I call Kim Johnson to ask the final question . since the ceasefire , we have see an increase in killing and atrocity in Jenin . on Saturday , israeli force be responsible for the killing of a two - year - old girl . the extremist settler be act with impunity against the Palestinians . will the Minister explain what action this Government have take to put pressure on Israel to prevent the ongoing atrocity in the west bank ? the UK Government have be absolutely clear on that . settler expansion and settler violence have reach record level . the israeli Government seize more of the west bank in 2024 than in the past 20 year . that be completely unacceptable . the matter have be raise by a number of member of the ministerial team , not least the Foreign Secretary . he also announce new sanction in October , which target illegal settler outpost and organisation that have support violence against community in the west bank . I thank the Minister for her statement . as a point of clarity , member need to be present in the Chamber for the Minister ' s statement if they wish to ask a question . Sudan and Eastern DRC with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the situation in Sudan and eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo . the late conflict in Sudan have now last 21 month . this weekend , the Rapid Support Forces attack the last functional hospital in the besiege city of El Fasher , in Darfur . the World Health Organisation assess that some 70 patient and their family be kill . the attack be far from isolated . in recent week , the RSF shell the Zamzam camp where displace people be trap outside El Fasher , while there be disturb report of extrajudicial killing by militia align to the sudanese armed force in Wad Madani . the Government condemn those attack in the strong possible term . they show callous disregard for international humanitarian law and innocent sudanese civilian . exact figure for those kill and displace in Sudan be hard to come by , but we know aid be be block from reach those in need . this be , without a shadow of doubt , one of the big humanitarian catastrophe of our lifetime . I see that for myself last week in Adr é , on the Chad - Sudan border , in the first ever Foreign Secretary visit to Chad . I feel a duty to confront the true horror of what be unfold , to bear witness and to raise up the voice of those — mainly woman — suffer so horrendously . eighty - eight per cent of the refugee at the Adr é crossing be woman and child . I meet nurse in a clinic fight to save the life of starve child . I meet a woman who show I her scar . she have be burn , she have be beat and she have be rape . turn to DRC , conflict have grip the east for more than 30 year . an M23 rebel offensive at the start of this year have already seize Masisi and Minova . this weekend see they enter Goma , the region ' s major city , which M23 last occupy in 2012 . brave UN peacekeeper from South Africa , Malawi and Uruguay have tragically be kill , and with hundred of thousand have already flee M23 to Goma , there be potential for a further humanitarian catastrophe . I have not yet travel as Foreign Secretary to meet those flee eastern DRC , but the report speak for themselves . this be one of the most dangerous place in the world to be a woman or a girl . child as young as nine be be attack and mutilate by machete - wield militia . around a quarter of the DRC ' s population be face acute food insecurity , and there be frequent bombardment of the makeshift camp that shelter those who have flee their home . I regret to say that Foreign Secretaries update the House on conflict in Africa be something of a rarity . as I discuss yesterday with african ambassador and high commissioner , the surge in global conflict include the number in Africa almost double in the past decade . this be cause untold damage and hold back economic growth — the bedrock of our future partnership with african country . but where be the outrage ? again and again in Adr é , I be ask , " what be the world do to help we ? " the truth be that if we be witness the horror of El Fasher and Goma on any other continent or , for that matter , see the extremist violence in the Sahel and Somalia anywhere else in the world , there would be far more attention across the western world . indeed , one recent survey of armed conflict in 2024 contain spotlight on Europe , Eurasia , Asia and the Americas , but none on Africa . there should be no hierarchy of conflict , but there be one . every human life be of equal worth . the impact of these war be clear for all to see . we have only to be willing to look . I could not face atrocity such as these and shrug my shoulder . however , the House will also recognise the UK ' s national interest in address these conflict . irregular migration from Sudan to Britain alone increase by 16 % last year . unscrupulous smuggling gang be look to profit from the misery in place such as Sudan and the DRC . the long these war last , the great their ripple effect . neighbour such as Chad be work hard to manage this crisis alongside other nearby , but further escalation only increase instability and the risk of conflict elsewhere . with Sudan sit along the major trade route of the Red sea and eastern DRC , one of the most resource - rich region in the world , this be something that we can not tolerate . this Government , therefore , refuse to let these conflict be forget . work with Sierra Leone , the UK prepare a UN Security Council resolution on Sudan to address the humanitarian crisis . shockingly , despite the support of every other member , include China , Russia wield its veto , but russian cynicism will not deter we . we will continue to use our Security Council seat to shine a light on what be happen and work with our african partner on broad UN reform . we have also double UK aid to Sudan , support more than 1 million displace people . I see our impact at the Adr é crossing and announce a furth £ 20 million to support food production and sexual and reproductive service . the UK be the third large donor in the crisis , have offer almost £ 250 million in support this financial year . we have be redouble our diplomatic effort as well . in the spring , I be look to gather Ministers in the UK to galvanise international support for peace . we need to see three thing : first , the RSF and the sudanese armed force commit to a permanent ceasefire and the protection of civilian ; secondly , unrestricted humanitarian access into and within Sudan and a permanent UN presence ; and finally , an international commitment to a sustained and meaningful political process . instead of new and even more deadly weapon enter the conflict , we want consistent call for all political party to unite behind a common vision of a peaceful Sudan . we will engage with all those willing to work to bring the conflict to an end . on the DRC as well , the UK have react quickly to the current crisis . we now advise british national not to travel to the Rubavu district in western Rwanda , on the border with Goma . we be continue our humanitarian assistance , have provide £ 62 million this financial year . this enable lifesave assistance such as clean drinking water , treatment for malnourished child and support for victim of sexual violence . ultimately , however , we need a political solution . we know that M23 rebel could not have take Goma without material support from rwandan defence force . my noble friend Lord Collins of Highbury and I have be urge all side to engage in good faith in African - lead process . Lord Collins speak to the Rwandan and Angolan Foreign Ministers last week , and in the past few day I have speak to rwandan President Kagame and south african Foreign Minister Lamola . for all the complexity of such a long - run conflict , we must find a way to stop the killing . civilian in Sudan and eastern DRC must feel so powerless . power seem grip by those wage war around they . the Government and our partner can not simply will a ceasefire into being , but that be not a licence for inaction . as with Gaza , it can take hundred of day of diplomatic failure to reach even the most fragile of ceasefire . so for our part , the UK will keep do all in our power to focus the world on these conflict and somehow bring they to an end . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement and for the way he have speak about Sudan and the DRC . both conflict be truly shocking , and be result in an ongoing displacement crisis , with million of innocent people have to flee their home . as he have highlight in his statement and in his discussion with the african nation and their diplomat , armed conflict in Africa continue to cause immense human suffering and , of course , great pressure on United Nations peacekeeping . the scale of food insecurity be enormous . the most horrific crime be be commit against civilian : systematic human right abuse ; sexual violence ; torture ; and mass civilian casualty . we be deeply concerned by the intensification of the fighting in eastern DRC and its humanitarian consequence . we continue to urge all party to deliver on their commitment , which be agree through the regional peace process . we welcome the mediation effort facilitate by the Angolan - lead Luanda peace process and continue to urge all party to commit to further political dialogue . in government , my party be commit to the protection of civilian in and around Goma . the Foreign Secretary will be deeply aware of the long - stand work that take place there , include through the three - year humanitarian programme for the east of DRC , which seek to deliver lifesave emergency assistance to more than 1 . 1 million people and to protect and build resilience for the most vulnerable . despite all of that , it be important that we learn more and understand what the root cause be and how we can bring great stability and peace to the DRC . what be happen in Darfur must also not be tolerate . the conflict in Sudan have put pressure on neighbouring country , which be already under immense strain , and be create a level of human misery that be totally unconscionable . our main overreaching objective be clear , and we both agree that we need an immediate ceasefire and an end to all hostility in Sudan . the UK Government , work with international partner , must leave no stone unturned as they try to press the war party into a ceasefire . the Government must also do everything within their power to hold those responsible for the atrocity to account , because red line have be cross in this conflict and we can not stand by . the Foreign Secretary will know that the Conservative Government apply a range of sanction in the past on those support the activity of the Rapid Support Forces and the sudanese armed force . as the penholder on Sudan at the United Nations Security Council , will the Foreign Secretary update the House on what action be likely to follow at the UNSC ? the world can and should be do much more , as the Foreign Secretary have rightly say , so what recent discussion have he have with other country that could be do much more to leverage their own influence ? that also apply to the neighbouring region . will he provide an update on the work of Saudi Arabia and other help with the important Jeddah process and whether that be on track ? on sanction , do the Foreign Secretary intend to go far , perhaps follow the US ' s lead ? do he discuss the matter in his call with Secretary Rubio , because Sudan be not in the read - out and be not reference at all ? will he speak more about the United Nations reform that he have just touch on ? the US Administration be also review all their aid programme , so be that discuss in his call with Secretary Rubio ? beyond sanction , be he work to identify other hard - hit way to put pressure on the leadership of the RSF and the SAF and those support those awful war machine ? while the conflict continue to rage , we need a laser - like focus on the humanitarian assistance , and I do not just mean on the type or volume — important , though , that is . if british aid be be send and be get through , we must ensure that it get over the border and be distribute to the people it be intend to help . will the Foreign Secretary share his late assessment of the state of the border crossing in Sudan ? how much aid be get through each day and from which crossing point ? when the aid get inside Sudan , be the safeguard there to ensure that it get to the people who need it , and do he have the mechanism in place to measure the impact ? on the subject of aid , this might be premature , but will the Foreign Secretary speak about the Government ' s plan for the future of aid funding give the forthcoming spending review ? while this dreadful war persist , what be he do to increase effort to collect evidence of the crime commit so that those responsible can be hold accountable and face justice ? the Foreign Secretary have speak in recent day about the vile people smuggle gang . he mention the matter not just in this statement , but in his previous write statement . will far comprehensive action be take to target those miserable , vile and evil criminal gang ? what more will the Government do to put this whole issue to an end and ensure that this destruction and displacement across these two country come to an end ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady . of course , I know that she too draw some heritage from the african continent and so will take these issue very seriously . I also know the work of the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) before come to office . he do a lot on the humanitarian aid side , particularly in relation to Sudan . the conflict in Sudan have create , as I say , the world ' s large humanitarian crisis . thirty million people — half of Sudan ' s population — be now in urgent need . to make it clear to the House , that be more than Afghanistan , Bangladesh , Gaza and Mali combine . that be how bad the situation currently be . that be why I raise this issue with Secretary of State Rubio when I speak to he yesterday — although , because of all the issue in front of we , it be a brief conversation , we both say we would return to the issue , and we discuss the fact that I be keen to convene a group of nation , include regional partner on this very same issue . on sanction , since the 2023 conflict the UK have freeze the asset of nine commercial entity link to the party involve in the conflict . we obviously do not talk about what more we might be consider , but of course we keep that under review . the right hon . Lady rightly ask about UN reform . I be pleased to see that the United States recently make statement — under the last Administration , but I be sure that that be a cross - party position — that Africa should be represent on the UN Security Council . that have be our long - stand view over here . my assessment of the Adr é crossing be real concern that the Government in Sudan be say that that crossing should be close on 15 February . we disagree with they ; it should remain open . there be real issue about access , and one of the thing I be press for with international colleague be that the UN should be represent . its agency and body should be able to work unfettered in Sudan , and civilian must be protect . recent event at El Fasher be very worrying indeed , but I hope that with regional partner and those internationally engaged , we can at least come to an agreement that the UN should be present and that civilian should be protect , particularly when they be overwhelmingly woman and child . I do also raise the position in the DRC with Secretary of State Rubio when I speak to he yesterday — in fact , he raise that issue with I , and his real concern about it . I be clear with President Kagame on Sunday that Rwanda must act to de - escalate this conflict and return to dialogue . I say that an attack on Goma would provoke a strong response from the international community , and from speak to other nation , my sense be that that be what Rwanda can expect . Rwanda receive over $ 1 billion of global aid every year , include around £ 32 million of bilateral UK assistance . all of that be under threat when you attack your neighbour , and we in this House be clear that we can not have country challenge the territorial integrity of other country . just as we will not tolerate it in the continent of Europe , we can not tolerate it wherever in the world it happen . we have to be clear about that . the UK have sanction M23 and other armed group through the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 . there be currently 56 individual and nine entity list under UN sanction , and again , we keep that list under review . the shadow Foreign Secretary have rightly talk about the work of the last government in relation to humanitarian assistance , and I put on record the work that they lead on both side of this horrendous conflict . we be provide £ 62 million this year for programme in eastern DRC . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his update , and for his clear and deeply feel commitment to Sudan . it be the large humanitarian crisis on record , yet both of the war party be choke humanitarian access . the SAF have block the UN from reach area control by the RSF , while the RSF be increasingly impose bureaucratic obstacle to delay and block aid . what measure be the Foreign Secretary take to ensure that both of the war party and their international backer be allow vital aid to get in ? there have be effort in the past . the US try to lead effort , and all regional partner — the Egyptians and the Chadians — want to see those effort bear fruit . however , the truth be that the people I meet be suffer horrendously . when you be at a crossing meet those flee for their life , you be always aware that you be often meet those close to the border and those with the mean to arrange for smuggler to get they out . despite the million who have leave and be now displace , ten of million more be still stick in Sudan , unable to leave . for all those reason , we have to be crystal clear about the access issue — not just the fact of aid , but the fact that we want the aid to get through and reach the people who it need to reach . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , and thank he for advance sight of it . he be right to say that the crisis in Sudan will go down in history as one of the big humanitarian catastrophe of our lifetime . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s visit to this region and his personal engagement with it , and for update this House on conflict in Africa . my party agree with he that our level of concern for those affect by conflict overseas should never be influence by their location . the Foreign Secretary be also right to draw the House ' s attention to the escalation of violence by M23 in Goma . M23 ' s pursuit of mineral resource remind we of the DRC ' s tragedy of have such rich that trigger such violence . the announcement of increase UK aid to Sudan in November be welcome , as be the furth £ 20 million deploy at the weekend . the Foreign Secretary be right to say that the UK ' s aid budget not only reduce suffering , but reduce the pressure on refugee to make hazardous journey in search of sanctuary elsewhere . yet the UK ' s ability to respond to humanitarian and conflict situation be reduce by the Government ' s failure to commit to the 0 . 7 % target for official development assistance . will the Foreign Secretary explain to the House why it be report yesterday that £ 117 million have be cut from the integrate security fund , which would likely mean less money for conflict reduction work ? can he say what assessment he have make of the impact of the Trump Administration ' s instruction that all US aid programme be suspend ? I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s plan to convene Foreign Ministers to galvanise international effort to seek a ceasefire , but can he say by when this meeting will take place and how he plan to leverage the UK ' s position as the Security Council penholder on Sudan ? can he confirm that the Government will not prematurely recognise any allege authority Government in Sudan when the country be so divided , and how do he propose to reduce the interference of external power , include Russia , Iran , the United Arab Emirates and now China , in the conflict ? I be very grateful to the hon . Gentleman . on what be happen in Rwanda and the DRC , many year ago in this place — 22 year — an all - party parliamentary group on the african great lake region be set up . I be a member of it , and the then MP for Bethnal Green and Bow , Oona King , chair it for a while . that be when I first go to the region , in the wake of the awful , horrendous ethnic cleansing — [ hon . member : " Genocide . " ] — and genocide we see in Rwanda back in that period , and that be when I become familiar with the issue . the hon . Gentleman raise the issue of the 0 . 7 % target on development spend . I understand why those feeling be strongly feel about development , but he know that we have a £ 22 billion black hole . we want to get there eventually , but it will take we some time . notwithstanding that , the UK still make a major contribution in development aid spending at a time when we be see , right across the global community , aid spending fall because of the cost of living crisis , with inflation and the effect that it have on western population . it be too early to make an assessment of some of the change we have read about with the Trump Administration . I be tell and advise that there be an 85 - day process for the new Administration to look at these issue . however , it be interesting to I that Secretary of State Rubio raise the DRC with I before I raise it with he . we head to the Munich conference in a few week ' time , where these issue will of course be discuss , and I hope we will be able to convene and come together on the issue of Sudan shortly thereafter . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement and the work he be do to shine a light on the crisis . as he say , this be about not just the amount of aid , but the crucial issue of access . there be , quite clearly , unequal access for the UN in distribute aid in Sudan . can I ask how we be support organisation on the ground in Sudan , particularly sudanese aid organisation , to deliver aid in the area ? I be very grateful for that question , because there be a lively civil society still at work in Sudan and NGOs be on the ground in Sudan do what they can in the absence of UN agency able to do that work . I be grateful that the World Food Programme facilitate my trip to the Chad border with Sudan , and to see truck go in with the World Food Programme name emblazon on they that may bring some alleviation to the suffering . however , I must say that in my conversation with the driver , they talk about truck be hijack , the change , the barrier and not be able to get as far as they would like . there be still serious issue on the ground . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his kind remark . on Sudan , I commend the Foreign Secretary for go to Chad . I visit the same location last year , and he will have see the clear and horrific evidence that this be the world ' s bad humanitarian crisis . while he be there , do he make it clear to the President of Chad that the use of his private airport by foreign power to arm and assist the RSF be completely unacceptable ? on the DRC , as the Foreign Secretary rightly say everyone should draw back and engage with the Luanda process . do he agree that it would help if the congolese army do not so clearly make common cause with the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda , who perpetrate the genocide to which he refer , and who pose a serious threat to Rwanda ' s security and be responsible for the murder of nearly 1 million tutsi in 1992 ? my bilateral conversation with the President of Chad be extensive — I be accompany by the Foreign Minister for most of the 48 hour that I be there — and my concern for the woman and child be heartfelt , recognise the huge burden of displace people that Chad bear as well it can . I underline the UK ' s clear position on the conflict , the action of the party and the need for regional partner to support a political process to end the bloodshed . on the situation in the DRC , I have speak to President Kagame . I also speak to South Africa ' s Minister of International Relations and Cooperation follow the murder of its peacekeeper , and Lord Collins have speak to a range of african partner , all of whom have a stake . the Kenyans and the Angolans have be do a lot to move forward the Luanda process , which I urge Kigali to continue to work on . accord to UN expert the UAE have be provide arm and support to the Rapid Support Forces through its network in Libya , Chad , the Central African Republic , South Sudan and Uganda . those arm and supply have reportedly be disguise as humanitarian aid , raise serious concern about the UAE ' s role in exacerbate conflict and suffering in Sudan . the UAE be one of the UK ' s large arm buyer , with billion of pound worth of defence export license in recent year . give the gravity of those allegation , and the UK ' s obligation under international law , will the Government commit to end all arm sale to the UAE unless it can be unequivocally verify that they be no long supply the RSF ? I say to the hon . Gentleman that we hold — [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady — forgive I ; I be still suffer from jetlag . we hold regular discussion with all regional partner about the conflict in Sudan , include Saudi Arabia , the UAE , Egypt and african partner , as she would expect . any sustainable process for peace in Sudan require the support of all those in the region and beyond . I thank the Foreign Secretary for come and make this statement . he be right to say that these devastating conflict in Africa be often overlook , and I thank he for that as it be something a number of member have mention in the past . will he review the conflict budget , as some of the international NGOs be often there when nobody else be and no other attention be be pay ? on Sudan in particular , and Secretary Blinken ' s remark around genocide be commit , what implication do that have for UK foreign policy ? on the DRC , the Foreign Secretary mention the material support from Rwanda , but what action be he take regard all those who have facilitate the conflict , and what action and change in policy will we see from the fcdo ? on the first point , let I be clear : we have come in as a new Government and we think there be an important role for conflict mediation , build on the historic role that this country have play , include in Northern Ireland . we have real strength and we want to work with partner such as Norway , and other , on conflict — I reassure the hon . Gentleman about that . of course I recognise that there be broad regional issue . that be why I want to convene , and the UK will continue to play its role . that be why we bring the UN resolution with Sierra Leone , and why I have be try to rally support globally . frankly , that be why I visit , take the opportunity of a ceasefire in Gaza to draw attention to this issue and galvanise the world . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s visit to a malnutrition clinic on the border of Chad and Sudan and the additional funding for the region . Sudan have one of the high rate of malnutrition in the world . he say he have have discussion with regional actor , but can he go far and update we on where those discussion be ? what process be under way ? can he give further detail on his assessment of how aid be currently get in across the Adr é border , especially ready - to - use therapeutic food , which be vital in stop malnutrition and starvation in child ? the experience of visit , with M é decin Sans Fronti è re , a small clinic in Chad with malnourished baby , child and their mother — know I be make a ministerial trip , but also not know whether these small baby would survive in the day ahead — be heartrende . I thank M é decin Sans Fronti è re for all it be do to keep those child alive and to support those mother . it be why we be not only double our aid to Sudan , but increase our aid to Chad next door , which be bear the brunt of all those displace people who have come . my hon . Friend ask how we be continue to work on this issue with our partner . I chair a Sudan session with Foreign Ministers during the G7 , plus the Arab Quint . we discuss collective action and how the G7 and the Quint could take the war party and push for improved humanitarian access , the protection of civilian and increase aid . I will continue to redouble my effort in that regard . the Foreign Secretary be right to come here to express his dismay and frustration , which we all share , but what assessment have he make of the effectiveness of the United Nations in this ? it seem that its mission be fail . even the measured and balanced resolution that he put together with Sierra Leone fail to get through on 18 November . would it not be well to look instead at underscore the importance of an african solution to this ? in that respect , what discussion have he have with the African Union , notwithstanding that it be crucial that currently suspend member be involve in the process ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise the important role of the United Nations . I be hugely disappoint that Russia continue to block progress in the UN Security Council . notwithstanding the pressure , I applaud the work of the UN agency in particular and what they be attempt to do . I remind he of the work of the World Food Programme , the Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs and other . it be important that there be a UN presence in Sudan and that its agency can work unfettered there . clearly , the fact that UNESCO have pledge to withdraw in the DRC be a real issue , give what be happen and therefore what could flow from it end its period in the country , despite the pressure over the last 20 year . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . an article in the Lancet this month illustrate an alarming rise in multiple life - threaten infectious disease , include cholera , dengue fever , malaria , measle and polio , due to the destruction of health and sanitation infrastructure . how be the UK support progress in secure humanitarian access to life - save treatment for these disease , such as malaria , and do he agree that this support be need , as these infection have an impact worldwide ? if we allow these infection to fester , it will have implication for humanity . I thank my hon . friend for her work in raise these issue from the Back Benches . there have be a worrying outbreak of dengue fever in particular — I meet individual who suffer as a consequence of that — and malaria be rife . we will do all that we can to support that work , but the aid access issue in Sudan in particular make that extremely difficult . that be why we must have a process that allow for unfettered aid to reach those in Sudan who need it . I join hon . member in thank the Foreign Secretary for bring the statement to the House , give that these matter be so rarely discuss . the United States have often play a key role in end such conflict or provide humanitarian support . to support his effort with Secretary of State Rubio , will he ask for the Prime Minister ' s support to ensure that the conflict be on President Trump ' s agenda , give the latter ' s state " America first " agenda ? I listen to Secretary of State Rubio ' s first press conference , where he talk about want prosperity and , of course , security and safety for the United States . the truth be , the tremendous problem that we be see in the horn of Africa , the Sahel and Sudan be deeply worry not just for we in Europe but for the United States , because fail country become a haven of jihadist extremist activity that wash back up on our shore ; that be the truth of it . when big country , or indeed more powerful country , invade small country — particularly country with minimal resource — we should be concern indeed and raise that as a big issue . for all those reason , I expect that the United States will take a big interest in what be happen . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and the shadow Foreign Secretary for her response to it . it be important that the House speak with one voice on these issue . in recent day , I have hear from constituent with family in Sudan , and to say that they be terrified and devastate do not describe it . there be real fear and anguish in the sudanese diaspora in the United Kingdom . we have to be see to be believe , so I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for make his visit to Chad last week and thank he for his leadership on these issue , but I reiterate the point make by the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) . will he touch on the specific discussion that he have have in recent week with the African Union — it have an important role to play — and whether he plan to go to Addis to make that case in person ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for continue to raise these issue from the Back Benches and press I on they whenever he see I in the Lobby . let I be clear — I should have make this point — that we be of course work with the African Union . new leadership be about to take up post in the African Union in the come week , and we will continue to push these issue with it . we will work with a range of partner include Saudi Arabia , Egypt , the United Arab Emirates , the United States , african and european country who be take an interest , the Intergovernmental Authority on Development , the United Nations and the African Union . I reassure he of that . I also thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement , for Sudan be indeed the forget conflict , despite 8 million internally displace people and 24 . 5 million people on the verge of famine . I lend my sentiment and honour the three United Nations peacekeeper from Uruguay , South Africa and Malawi , the country of my birth . in the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , he mention more deadly weapon enter the conflict . who be provide those arm and weapon ? what vested interest do they have in Sudan — be they in its natural resource , its gold or its port ? what leverage be we use with those country with whom we have good diplomatic relation who may be supply those weapon ? I meet african ambassador yesterday to discuss those very issue . we talk about the security and resilience of the african continent and of how , after a relatively peaceful period a decade or so ago when most of the discussion be about development , they be now concerned about those who be fight proxy war in different way . that be not to say that regional power will not have different interest , but when we see the behaviour of mercenary and we look at the problem of arm sale in Africa and the damage that do to civilian life , we have to hold out for a political solution . we have to get back to dialogue and we have to get back to diplomacy . that be what I be seek to emphasise in the statement . I echo the praise for the Foreign Secretary ' s visit last week . it be important that we continue to keep the spotlight on Sudan . last week , I be able to visit an exhibition call " child ' s drawing " , arrange by Waging Peace and host by my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) . it show a series a picture paint by young child — powerful image of child survivor of the genocide . one picture show two army man fight and an attack by the Janjaweed militia on a hut in a village . inside the hut , at the bottom of the drawing , a soldier be rape a woman . the 80 - page book detail the resilience of those survivor , and also the trauma that those young child have go through . it be good to see cross - party support in the Chamber on this important issue . the Foreign Secretary be right — where be the outrage and the constant medium coverage ? there should be no hierarchy of conflict . every life be equal . will the Foreign Secretary commit to the House that he will stand by the victim in Sudan for as long as it take to get that stability ? I thank my hon . friend for her work to press these issue . I repeat again : where be the liberal outrage ? where be the marche ? where be the email flood mp ' inboxe ? they be nowhere to be see . just a few year ago , the world rally because of what it see as horrendous event in Darfur . it be unbelievable that a few year later , the world seem to have forget . this be the moment to step up . this House have come together this week to remember those who be massacre in genocide during the Holocaust . these be very serious issue . just as we have call out horrendous act against humanity in the past , so we must call this out . as an MP represent a sudanese community in Bristol and as a member of all - party parliamentary group for Sudan and South Sudan , I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and his real care and concern for the innocent civilian in Sudan and the DRC , and for speak about the need to protect they from the horror take place . in his statement , he say that irregular migration from Sudan to Britain have increase 16 % in the past year — indeed , the Sudanese be among the top nationality to cross the channel in 2024 . do he agree that a key part of our response , alongside support on the ground , must be to ensure safe and legal route for sudanese refugee to come here ? have he raise that with the Home Secretary ? Sudan be no . 2 in the list of those come in December . we be see an uptick . that be why we continue to work upstream . I hope to be in Africa to look at more work upstream very shortly . of course , we work with the UN agency — we have be in touch with they in the past few day — and those NGOs that work with refugee to discuss these issue . the ongoing conflict in Sudan have displace more than 10 million people , cause widespread famine and fuel human right abuse , include sexual violence , with woman and girl disproportionately impact . will the Foreign Secretary outline the Government ' s diplomatic effort to ensure that all party be hold accountable and adhere to international law and human right standard ? he mention that the Government do not want new and even more deadly weapon enter the conflict , so will he ensure that this House receive full and up - to - date information about UK export arm licence with any Government who be allege to be prop up the RSF or any other military force in this conflict ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for continue to press these issue . let I reassure she that the UK continue to pursue all diplomatic avenue to press the party into a permanent ceasefire , to allow unrestricted humanitarian access to protect civilian and to commit to a sustained , meaningful and peaceful process . we have the most robust export licensing regime in the world . where there be breach of international humanitarian law , we suspend licence . she should be reassure that we take that very seriously . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and agree with his point about the way in which global medium value pay no attention whatsoever to conflict or life in Africa . he have draw attention to that today , and I thank he for it . as one who represent constituent from both the DRC and Sudan , I can say that the community I represent be email and talk , and all of they be say the same thing : why be nobody discuss what be go on in the DRC or Sudan ? I have two quick question for the Secretary of State . first , what can he do to reduce the flow of arm into Sudan ? it be motivate by the country that want to get hold of the wealth and natural resource of Sudan , and have no concern whatsoever for the life of the people in that country . secondly , have be to Goma on a number of occasion in the past , as well as to other part of the DRC , I be very well aware of the long - term conflict that have go on over mineral , essentially , where militia be effectively finance by mineral company to drag out coltan and other rich from the Congo at the expense of the life of the people there . the role of the Rwandan Government in support M23 , and now the occupation of Goma , have to be call out and challenge . surely , the future have to be one of peace and of the democratic engagement of all the people of the DRC in their future . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman . I know he do a lot of work with my predecessor in Tottenham on issue to do with the african continent . he have be raise these issue consistently for the past three or four decade , and we be very grateful to he for that . I seek to reassure the right hon . Gentleman that when I say that we want to convene and come together with regional partner and those neighbour Sudan , as well as with the international partner that take a big interest and play a big role , as the UN penholder , we be of course aware of some of the motivation ; there be gold , for example , in Sudan . we urge everyone to step back and get to a ceasefire . this can not go on forever ; there have to be a ceasefire . we need that ceasefire now because of the woman and child who be suffer . like the right hon . Gentleman , I have be to Goma . we have be talk about the coltan in our mobile phone for many year . it be why there be so many external actor engage in the DRC . order . if question and answer be short , I can squeeze in just a couple more member . the Foreign Secretary speak movingly about his visit to the Chad - Sudan border , and I commend he for bear witness . there be no substitute for do that . since April 2023 , there have be more than 500 attack on healthcare facility in Sudan , and more than 100 healthcare worker have be kill . the Foreign Secretary will know that attack on hospital and healthcare be a grow and grotesque phenomenon across the world . do he think we could use our position on the UN Security Council as the lead on the protection of civilian to bring together country and drive forward action to protect healthcare and health facility across the world ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . we can not live in a world where the rule be disregarded and where aid and peace worker be murder as they go about their business . this have be the most horrendous period for the loss of life of good people do good work . I will take up the call for a renew effort , use our position on the UN to marshal that . the horrendous situation in Sudan , as the Foreign Secretary rightly say , call for a common vision for a peaceful Sudan . will he outline what detailed talk he have have with other nation outside of Russia and the UN , in order that that vision of a peaceful Sudan can be realise more quickly than would otherwise be the case ? let I reassure the hon . Gentleman that I have speak to north african country about this issue . I be in Chad , obviously , but I also raise these issue in Egypt , where I meet sudanese refugee . I talk about the Quint and the G7 ; we be use all those multilateral mechanism to raise this issue and galvanise further support . it be deeply worry that when the UN call for donor last year , it get just 50 % of the money that be require . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . Gender - base violence increase by 300 % in the DRC in recent year , with two third of it in the three eastern province . in Sudan , we have hear of the epidemic of sexual violence in conflict . this year mark 25 year since the agreement of the landmark UN resolution 1325 on woman , peace and security , yet across the world we be let woman down . please can the Foreign Secretary outline , on the broad agenda , how we will make this the year we actually protect woman ' s right in conflict and ensure that their voice be hear ? I be very grateful that that be the subject of the last question . one reason why the world be not pay attention to these crisis be that they be in the continent of Africa . the second reason , I fear , be gendere : it be woman who be suffer . it be man who be do the fighting and woman who be be leave behind . we can not go backwards . for all those reason , I urge parliamentarian to secure debate and raise these issue with the colleague they meet from other parliamentary democracy , so we get attention back on these woman and child in both conflict and across so many other , who be suffer horrendously . I thank the Foreign Secretary . we get through quite a lot of question . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your advice . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be make its way through the House of Commons — indeed , we be well into the Committee stage — yet still we do not have an impact assessment to show what effect it will have . that impede the ability of member to properly scrutinise the Bill . therefore , I seek your advice on what more we can do to force the Government to publish the impact assessment . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of her point of order . the Government ' s own " Guide to make legislation " make it clear that a final impact assessment must be make available alongside Bills introduce to Parliament . I do not know why that have not happen in this case , but clearly it be unsatisfactory that the impact assessment be not available to the Public Bill Committee . I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note her remark . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will be aware that there have be major disruption in Northern Ireland and , indeed , in part of Scotland due to last week ' s storm . hundred of thousand of home , business and family be leave without electricity , and some without water . ten of thousand be still in the same position five day later . I know the matter be raise yesterday in the House , but in rural area , along with major disruption , they have no online facility , mean no business can be do , include last - minute tax return to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . have the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland or the Secretary of State for Scotland indicate that they will come to the House to spell out what additional step they be propose to help we bring this crisis to a speedy but overdue end ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . I have have no indication that any Minister be come to the House to make a statement today , but he will recall that the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster make a statement to the House yesterday , in which he describe the measure the UK Government be take in Scotland and Northern Ireland to address the impact of the storm . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 8 January , in response to a question on child protection , the Prime Minister tell this House : " reasonable people can agree or disagree on whether a further inquiry be necessary . " — [ Official Report , 8 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 836 . ] yet over the past week , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , the shadow Policing Minister , have use social medium to link councillor who vote against a new national inquiry with groom gang . in accordance with the custom of this House , I have inform the hon . member for Stockton West that I intend to name he . Madam Deputy Speaker , those post have incite vile comment online , include councillor be accuse of be paedophile . one comment chillingly read : " I hope people find out where they live and start persecute they . " we know too well that such word online can lead to real - world consequence . one councillor be specifically target through pay social medium advertisement . People turn up at her home and terrorise she , with yobs bray at her door . other councillor have be verbally assault . member of this House have benefit from the good office of Mr Speaker , who have champion their safety and security . I be sure , Madam Deputy Speaker , that all be appal by the depraved behaviour of child grooming and rape gang , but to exploit that suffer for political gain be , frankly , sicken . I would be grateful if you could advise I on the most appropriate way to highlight the potential consequence of our word to all member , in particular the shadow Policing Minister — if , indeed , he be consider fit to continue in that role . I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order , and I note that he inform the hon . member for Stockton West that he intend to refer to he in the Chamber . the Chair be not responsible for comment make by member on social medium , but I urge all member to reflect carefully on the likely impact of what they post online . woman ' s State Pension Age ( Ombudsman Report and Compensation Scheme ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish measure to address the finding of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman in its report entitle " woman ' s State Pension age : our finding on injustice and associate issue " ; to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for a compensation scheme for woman bear between 6 April 1950 and 5 April 1960 inclusive who have be affect by increase in the state pension age ; and for connected purpose . I do so with no joy whatsoever — indeed , my reason for do so be bear more out of complete and utter frustration — but because it be the right thing to do for a number of reason . it be the right thing to do because we require trust in politic , and I think that all of we at this moment in time , certainly in this Chamber , be conscious of the breakdown in trust between ourselves in this Parliament and the public outside . for those of we who have stand alongside the WASPI woman for many year , for those of we who have pledge to support the WASPI woman for many year , for those of we who promise to take action if we be ever to gain Government office , it be important that that trust be repay , and my Bill seek to do that . it seek to do the right thing by those to whom we make a promise . this be also the right thing to do because , for many of the woman who be impact , this injustice be not alone . throughout their life , many will unfortunately have be impact by the fact that they do not receive a salary comparable to that of their male counterpart . these be woman who will have face the injustice of know that they be not able to get themselves up the career ladder simply because they be woman and there be a male counterpart . they be the people who will have know that whether or not they be go to have child might well decide what their career opportunity be . it be an unforgivable injustice that they have to experience , and we should not be compound that injustice by not give they the compensation they deserve for have their pension entitlement change . this be also the right thing to do because the parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman tell we it that be the right thing to do . if we do not have trust and confidence in the estate in which we operate , and if we do not support the outcome of our ombudsman , I must simply ask : where be the public to go ? where be they to place their trust ? the ombudsman make it abundantly clear that these woman be the victim of maladministration , and that the Department for Work and Pensions have not act in the way that it should have do . much bad than that , however , the ombudsman be clear that the DWP could not be trust to rectify the wrong that it have impose on those woman . so what happen ? we be effectively delegate the responsibility to respond , and what do we see ? we see a government turn their back on those woman , but not before , of course , they have hold placard ; not before , of course , they have give warm word when they have feel that it be politically expedient to do so . let we listen to some of those warm word . let we start off with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom , who say : " all your work life you ' ve get in mind the date on which you can retire and get your pension , and just as you get towards it , the goalpost be move and you don ' t get it , and it ' s a real injustice . " let we look at what the Deputy Prime Minister say : " they want their money back , and quite rightly so . " let we look at what the Chancellor of the Exchequer say : " pleasure to speak in the state pension age debate and talk about woman who be be treat so badly . Govt please listen . # WASPI " . the Home Secretary say : " I want to keep fight for a fair deal for the WASPI woman . " the Business Secretary say : " I have always support local campaigner and will continue to stand up for the WASPI woman of Tameside . I know you will fight on . " the Defence Secretary say : " Labour will correct this historic wrong . " for those of we in Scotland , let we look north of the border . the leader of the Labour party in Scotland , Anas Sarwar , say : " under my leadership , WASPI woman will finally receive the justice they deserve . " the wide Labour party in Scotland state : " labour will right the historical wrong of pension discrimination by compensate more than 300 , 000 woman in Scotland with an average of £ 15 , 000 . when Labour win , Scotland ' s woman win . " what happen ? a parcel of rogue , indeed . I be one of many who be in this Chamber prior to Christmas when the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions decide to make a statement right before Parliament break off to confirm that the Government be sorry for the maladministration that take place , that they be go to make sure the Department for Work and Pensions , which inflict this wrong upon those woman , would never do so again and that lesson would be learn — but that be your lot . the evidence they use to back up their decision not to award any compensation — in fact , not even to discuss the concept of compensation in this Chamber — be base upon the datum , as I understand it , of just 200 respondent from many year ago . the Government then go on to say that there be no money at all , as if they be not the one who get to decide how money be spend ; as if they be not the one who have decide to box themselves in on pretty much every tax lever that exist ; as if — I appreciate that not everyone in the Chamber will agree with I on this point — they be not the one who have decide to simply accept the broken economic norm form by leave the European Union and reject access to the single market and the custom union , and to accept that it will cause economic damage and limit the money be available to they . none of that be their fault at all . how very dare they ? do they think the public be zip up the back ? do they think the WASPI woman be not listen and watch the decision they have choose to take ? this be a defining issue . many of we in the last Parliament watch on as a tv show change the mind of the Government in respect of the Post Office Horizon scandal . many of we watch on as Parliament force the Government to change tack on the infected blood scandal . many of we have speak about the Equitable Life scandal , the Hillsborough disaster , the loan charge debacle and , indeed , the WASPI campaign . define issue of the last Parliament can still be define issue of this Parliament , but only if the Government act to provide the compensation and redress that these woman so badly deserve . there be a man who go on to become the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom , who say : " the wall of Westminster be so high . " he be infer that we do not listen to what the public want , nor do we see what they be fight for and what they believe in . but we know where the public stand on this issue . we know that they believe the WASPI woman should be give the compensation that they deserve , and with this Bill we will seek to provide it . question put . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Alex Easton Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding John Hayes Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Brian Mathew James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Jon Trickett Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Claire Young Kirsty Blackman Bobby Dean Brendan O ' Hara Ben Lake the House divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 0 . question accordingly agree to . order , that Stephen Flynn , Kirsty Blackman , Pete Wishart , Graham Leadbitter , Liz Saville Roberts , Brian Leishman , Sir Julian Lewis , Steve Darling , Si â n Berry , Gavin Robinson , Claire Hanna and Jeremy Corbyn present the Bill . Stephen Flynn accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March , and to be print ( Bill 169 ) . water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee on 21 January 2025 , on reform the water sector , HC 588 ; oral evidence take before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee on 26 November 2024 , on work of the Department and its arm ' s - length body , HC 415 . ] New Clause 18 - special provision in charge scheme " ( 1 ) the Water Industry Act 1991 be amend as set out in subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) in section 143a ( 3 ) ( b ) , after ' regulation ' insert ' or , in the case of regulation make by the Secretary of State ( rather than the Welsh Ministers ) , by which that entitlement be otherwise to be establish ' . ( 3 ) after section 143A insert — ' 143aa special provision under section 143A : financial arrangement ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply if regulation under section 143A impose on relevant undertaker whose area be wholly or mainly in England requirement of the sort describe in subsection ( 2 ) ( d ) of that section . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation establish a scheme for the purpose of distribute among the relevant undertaker that be subject to the requirement all or part of the cost incur by they in comply with the requirement ( with the distribution to be on such basis as be provide for in the regulation ) . ( 3 ) the scheme may operate by way of — ( a ) direct payment between relevant undertaker , or ( b ) payment into and out of a fund establish and maintain under the regulation . ( 4 ) subsection ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) apply if a scheme be establish under subsection ( 2 ) . ( 5 ) if the Secretary of State or the Authority make price control provision , they must design the provision with a view to not prevent the passing - on of cost as describe in subsection ( 7 ) . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation — ( a ) make provision about how the Authority be to comply with subsection ( 5 ) ; ( b ) modify the effect of any price control provision make by the Authority with a view to enable the passing - on of cost as describe in subsection ( 7 ) . ( 7 ) the passing - on of cost occur when a relevant undertaker be able to recoup its relevant net cost by charge additional amount under section 142 ( 1 ) . ( 8 ) an undertaker ' s relevant net cost be the total of its cost incur in — ( a ) comply with the requirement refer to in subsection ( 1 ) , and ( b ) comply with the requirement of the scheme , less any payment it receive under the scheme . ( 9 ) in this section , " price control provision " mean provision make by or under — ( a ) regulation under section 143A , ( b ) rule under section 143B , or ( c ) a condition of a relevant undertaker ' s appointment under chapter 1 of Part 2 , that restrict the amount that may be charge by a relevant undertaker under section 142 ( 1 ) . ( 10 ) where a determination within section 12 ( 3 ) ( determination by CMA provide for by undertaker ' s appointment ) involve the making of price control provision , subsection ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) apply in relation to the cma as they apply in relation to the Authority . 143ab special provision under section 143A : consultation ( 1 ) this section apply to — ( a ) regulation under section 143A that , in relation to relevant undertaker whose area be wholly or mainly in England , make provision of the sort describe in subsection ( 2 ) ( d ) of that section , and ( b ) regulation under section 143AA . ( 2 ) before make regulation to which this section apply , the Secretary of State must ( subject to subsection ( 3 ) ) consult — ( a ) the Authority , ( b ) the relevant undertaker to which the regulation would apply , and ( c ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 3 ) but the Secretary of State do not have to consult if — ( a ) the regulation only amend early regulation , and ( b ) the Secretary of State consider that the amendment be sufficiently minor that consultation be unnecessary . " ( 4 ) the Digital Economy Act 2017 be amend as set out in subsection ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) . ( 5 ) in section 38 ( disclosure of information to water and sewerage undertaker ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for " people live in water poverty " substitute " eligible people " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 9 ) insert — " ( 9a ) a person be " eligible " for the purpose of this section and section 39 — ( a ) if the person be live in water poverty , or ( b ) in the application of the section to a water or sewerage undertaker for an area which be wholly or mainly in England , if the person be among those for whom special provision be require to be make by regulation within subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) . " ( 6 ) in section 39 ( disclosure of information by water and sewerage undertaker ) , in subsection ( 2 ) , for " people live in water poverty " substitute " eligible people ( see section 38 ( 9a ) ) ' . " — ( Emma Hardy . ) this new clause supplement exist power to provide for special charging arrangement for customer in need . it enable automatic enrolment , cost - sharing among water company ( and their customer ) , and broad information - sharing between public authority and water company ; and impose a requirement for consultation . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 1 — Water Restoration Fund — " ( 1 ) no more than 60 day after the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision for the establishment , operation and management of a Water Restoration Fund . ( 2 ) a Water Restoration Fund be a fund — ( a ) into which any monetary penalty impose for specified offence must be pay , and ( b ) out of which payment must be make for expenditure on measure to improve the quality of the freshwater environment in England . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation list the specify offence for the purpose of this section , which must include — ( a ) any relevant provision of the Water Resources Act 1991 , include — ( i ) section 24 ( 4 ) ( unlicensed abstraction or related work or contravene abstraction licence ) ; 22 Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ HL ] ; ( ii ) section 25 ( 2 ) ( unlicensed impound work or contravene impound licence ) ; ( iii ) section 25c ( 1 ) ( contravene abstraction or impound enforcement notice ) ; ( iv ) section 80 ( contravene drought order or permit ) ; ( v ) section 201 ( 3 ) ( contravene water resource information notice ) ; ( b ) regulation under section 2 of the Pollution Prevention and Control Act 1999 ( regulation of pollute activity etc ) ; ( c ) regulation under section 61 of the Water Act 2014 ( regulation of water resource etc ) . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument add to the list of offence specify in subsection ( 3 ) . ( 6 ) the provision in this section replace any exist provision for the sum receive for specified offence , include in section 22a ( 9 ) of the Water Industry Act 1991 ( penalty ) . " this new clause would require all fund from fine on water company for environmental offence to be ringfence for the Water Restoration Fund , for spend on freshwater recovery . new clause 2 — Abolition of the Water Services Regulation Authority — " ( 1 ) the Water Industry Act 1991 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for section 1A ( Water Services Regulation Authority ) substitute the following — ' 1A Abolition of the Water Services Regulation Authority ( 1 ) the body corporate know as the Water Services Regulation Authority ( in this Act refer to as " the Authority " ) be abolish . ( 2 ) all reference to the duty and function of the Authority in this Act or any other enactment be null and void . ' ( 3 ) omit schedule 1a ( the Water Services Regulation Authority ) . " this new clause abolish Ofwat . new clause 3 — Impact of the Act on the Environment Agency — " the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act — ( a ) review the impact of this Act on the Environment Agency ; ( b ) consider whether the Environment Agency require any additional resource to meet the additional requirement place upon it by this Act . " new clause 4 — duty to publish map of sewage catchment network — " after section 205 of the Water Industry Act 1991 insert — ' 205ZA Duty to publish map of sewage catchment network ( 1 ) each relevant undertaker must publish a map of its sewage catchment network . ( 2 ) a map publish under this section must illustrate any relevant pumping station , pipe , and other work constitute part of the undertaker ' s sewerage network . ( 3 ) Maps publish under this section must be publish within 12 month of the passing of this Act , and must be update whenever change be make to the sewage catchment network or the component list in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) map publish under this section must be make publicly accessible on the undertaker ' s website . ' " new clause 5 — duty to prevent chemical pollutant enter the water environment — " after section 68 of the Water Industry Act 1991 ( duty of water undertaker and water supply licensee with respect to water quality ) , insert — ' 68a duty to prevent chemical pollutant enter the water environment ( 1 ) it shall be the duty of a water undertaker to take such step as be necessary to reduce and prevent chemical pollutant , include but not limit to poly - and perfluorinated alkyl substance , enter the water environment . ( 2 ) in fulfil its duty under subsection ( 1 ) , a relevant undertaker must publish a strategy outline how it intend to reduce and prevent chemical pollutant enter the water environment . ( 3 ) in develop a strategy under subsection ( 2 ) , a relevant undertaker must consult with appropriate agency , include but not limit to — ( a ) the relevant Government department ; ( b ) the Authority ; ( c ) the Environment Agency ; and ( d ) the Drinking Water Inspectorate . ( 4 ) a strategy under subsection ( 2 ) must include consideration of how the cost of reduce and prevent chemical pollutant enter the water environment be to be bear or recover , where such consideration must prevent such cost recovery from result in additional charge be make upon consumer . ' " new clause 6 — licence condition about nature recovery — " in the Water Industry Act 1991 , after section 17fb insert — ' 17fc nature recovery ( 1 ) reduce flood risk and pollution incident , improve water quality and benefit nature restoration in their catchment area . ( 2 ) the Authority must not take any action that discourage or prevent a relevant undertaker from make an investment in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) . ' " this new clause would make it a condition of all water company ' licence to consider nature - base solution to flood risk , improve water quality and benefit nature restoration in their catchment area , and prevent the regulator from discourage or stop such investment . new clause 7 — Review of price review process — " in section 2 of the Water Industry Act 1991 , after subsection ( 2B ) insert — ' ( 2ba ) in further its objective and purpose under subsection ( 2A ) , the Authority must , within 12 month of the passing of the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , review its practice as to review price limit . ( 2bb ) a review under subsection ( 2BA ) must consider — ( a ) whether the current practice of price review every five year should be replace with an annual , or otherwise more frequent , system ; ( b ) how change to inflation and other financial or economic change could or should be reflect in price charge by water company ; ( c ) how any future system of price review could well support undertaker in plan and deliver investment beyond a single asset management plan period . ' " new clause 8 — prohibition on bail - out of water company shareholder and creditor — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State and his Majesty ' s Treasury must not directly or indirectly discharge , assume , or guarantee any debt of legal entity in any water company group subject to proceeding under section 24 of the Water Industry Act 1991 ( special administration order make on special petition ) , except in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) the special administrator of a water company may reduce the debt owe by the regulate entity to its creditor by up to 100 per cent , take into account the future forecast expenditure over the short , medium and long term and subject to the administrator ' s confidence in the company ' s ability to accommodate this spending . ( 3 ) the prohibition set out in subsection ( 1 ) and the reduction of debt set out in subsection ( 2 ) must not include pension , wage and other obligation owe to employee , exclude any past or current member of a board of director , within the water company group . " this new clause aim to allow up to 100 % of debt to be cancel in the event of special administration proceeding , take into account the scale of investment require to hit the future target establish by the Authority . new clause 9 — ofwat to publish guidance on debt level after administration — " in section 2 of the Water Industry Act 1991 , after subsection ( 2D ) insert — ' ( 2dza ) for the purpose of ensure that relevant undertaker be able to finance the proper carrying out of their function under subsection ( 2A ) ( c ) , the Authority must establish guideline to be follow by relevant undertaker who have be in special administration . ( 2DZB ) guideline produce under subsection ( 2dza ) must — ( a ) set out a maximum level of debt which can be accrue by the undertaker ; ( b ) set out a process for agree capital expenditure necessary for service improvement , bill increase , and change to operating cost while the undertaker be subject to the Special Administration Regime ; ( c ) state the penalty which will be impose for breach of such guideline , which may include — ( i ) financial penalty ; ( ii ) prohibition on the payment of dividend or other bonus ; or ( iii ) such other special measure as the Authority deem appropriate . ' " new clause 11 — duty on sewerage undertaker to monitor overflow at sewage treatment work , pump station and on the sewer network — " ( 1 ) the Water Industry Act 1991 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 94 — ( a ) after subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) insert — ' ( c ) to make provision for the accurate collection of datum relate to its performance in fulfil its duty under paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) . ' ( b ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2A ) in perform its duty under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , a sewerage undertaker must — ( a ) install volume flow meter in all location where sewage overflow occur , include sewage treatment work , pump station and on the sewer network for which it be responsible ; ( b ) establish appropriate require capacity for each sewage treatment work and pumping station ; ( c ) publish information on the datum and calculation use to establish such require capacity ; and ( d ) install all require monitoring tool within 12 month of the passing of this Act . ' " new clause 12 — rule about performance - relate pay — " ( 1 ) the Water Industry Act 1991 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 35d ( insert by section 1 of this Act ) insert — ' 35e rule about performance - relate pay ( 1 ) the Authority must issue rule prohibit a relevant undertaker from give to person hold senior role performance - relate pay in respect of any financial year in which the undertaker have fail to prevent all sewage discharge , spill , or leak . ( 2 ) the rule issue under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) provision design to secure that performance - relate pay which , if give by a relevant undertaker , would contravene the pay prohibition on the part of the undertaker , be not give by another person ; ( b ) that any provision of an agreement ( whether make before or after the issuing of the rule ) be void to the extent that it contravene the pay prohibition ; ( c ) provision for a relevant undertaker to recover any payment make , or other property transfer , in breach of the pay prohibition . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) " performance - relate pay " mean any payment , consideration or other benefit ( include pension benefit ) the giving of which result from the meeting of any target or performance standard on the part of the relevant undertaker or the person to whom such payment , consideration or benefit be give ; ( b ) a person hold a " senior role " with a relevant undertaker if the person — ( i ) be a chief executive of the undertaker , ( ii ) be a director of the undertaker , or ( iii ) hold such other description of role with the undertaker as may be specify . ' " this new clause create a new section in the Water Industry Act 1991 to require Ofwat to ban bonus for water company boss if they fail to prevent sewage discharge , spill , or leak . new clause 13 — rule about competitive procurement in water infrastructure — " ( 1 ) the Water Industry Act 1991 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 35a insert — ' rule about competitive procurement in water infrastructure ( 1 ) the Authority must issue rule require relevant undertaker to use competitive procurement process in respect of procurement relate to water infrastructure . ( 2 ) if the Authority consider that a relevant undertaker be contravene the rule , the Authority may give the undertaker a direction to do , or not to do , a particular thing specify in the direction . ( 3 ) it be the duty of a relevant undertaker to comply with a direction give under subsection ( 2 ) , and this duty be enforceable by the Authority under section 18 . ( 4 ) rule under this section may — ( a ) make different provision for different relevant undertaker or description of undertaker ; ( b ) make different provision for different purpose ; ( c ) make provision subject to exception . ( 3 ) the Authority may from time to time — ( a ) revise rule issue under this section , and ( b ) issue the revise rule . ' " new clause 14 — ofwat consideration of pollution target for price review — " ( 1 ) the Water Industry Act 2011 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 17i insert — ' " 17IA Duty to have regard to pollution target in carry out price review when carry out a periodic review for the purpose of set a Price Control in respect of one or more relevant undertaker , the Authority must have regard to the performance of the relevant undertaker or undertaker against pollution target across the previous five year . ' " new clause 15 — database of performance of sewerage undertaker — " ( 1 ) the Water Industry Act 1991 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in chapter 3 of Part II ( protection of customer etc ) , after section 27za ( power to require information for purpose of monitoring ) insert — ' 27ZB duty to establish database ( 1 ) it shall be the duty of the Authority to establish and maintain a database contain information relate to the performance of sewerage undertaker . ( 2 ) the database must — ( a ) be publicly and freely accessible ; ( b ) enable uploaded information to be update in live - time ; ( c ) contain such datum or information as the Authority think be necessary for the purpose of public transparency as to the performance of sewerage undertaker ; and ( d ) contain — ( i ) current and historic datum ; and ( ii ) datum and information which have be independently collect or analyse include — ( a ) the start time , end time and duration of all sewage spill event , ( b ) flow datum from flow monitor , ( c ) the location of each flow meter from which flow datum be provide . ( 3 ) the Authority may make rule about the provision of datum and information under this section . ( 4 ) rule under subsection ( 3 ) must include rule relate to information provide about the location of flow meter . ( 5 ) the Authority may impose penalty on undertaker who fail to provide such information as be require by this section . ' " new clause 16 — Establishment of Water Restoration Fund — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 60 day of the passing of this Act , make provision for the establishment , operation and management of a Water Restoration Fund . ( 2 ) a Water Restoration Fund be a fund — ( a ) into which any monetary penalty impose on water company for specified offence must be pay , and ( b ) out of which payment must be make for expenditure on measure — ( i ) to help water body , include chalk stream , achieve good ecological status , and improve ecological potential and chemical status ; ( ii ) to prevent further deterioration of the ecological status , ecological potential or chemical status of water body , include chalk stream ; ( iii ) to enable water - dependent habitat to return to , or remain at , favourable condition ; ( iv ) to restore other water - dependent habitat and specie , especially where action support restoration of associate protect site or water body . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , by regulation , list the specify offence for the purpose of this section , which must include — ( a ) any relevant provision of the Water Resources Act 1991 , include — ( i ) section 24 ( 4 ) ( unlicensed abstraction or related work or contravene abstraction licence ) ; ( ii ) section 25 ( 2 ) ( unlicensed impound work or contravene impound licence ) ; ( iii ) section 25c ( 1 ) ( contravene abstraction or impound enforcement notice ) ; ( iv ) section 80 ( contravene drought order or permit ) ; ( v ) section 201 ( 3 ) ( contravene water resource information notice ) ; ( b ) any relevant regulation under section 2 of the Pollution Prevention and Control Act 1999 ( regulation of pollute activity etc ) relate to water pollution ; ( c ) regulation under section 61 of the Water Act 2014 ( regulation of water resource etc ) . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 5 ) the provision in this section replace any exist provision for the sum receive for specified offence , include in section 22a ( 9 ) of the Water Industry Act 1991 ( penalty ) . " new clause 17 — rule about borrow — " after section 154B of the Water Industry Act 1991 ( financial assistance for major work ) insert — ' chapter iii Rules about borrow for undertaker 154C Restrictions on undertaker relate to borrowing ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument implement a limit on borrowing by a relevant undertaker . ( 2 ) where a relevant undertaker have total borrowing exceed the limit set by regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) , the relevant undertaker may not make a payment of dividend , capital , asset , or interest to shareholder or control entity . ( 3 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ' " this new clause would enable limit to be place on the amount of money that can be borrow by a water or sewerage undertaker , and prevent an undertaker who have exceed such limit from be able to pay dividend to shareholder . new clause 19 — civil penalty : equivalent reduction to customer bill — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make provision for any monetary penalty impose on a water company to result in equivalent reduction to the amount charge to customer by the relevant water company . ( 2 ) in fulfil its duty under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must arrange , annually — ( a ) for the total amount of monetary penalty impose on a water company in the previous year to be calculate ; ( b ) for that total to be divide by the number of customer of the water company ; ( c ) for each customer ' s next bill from the water company to be reduce by that figure . ( 3 ) any reduction apply under this section must be indicate on a customer ' s statement of account . ( 4 ) in this section , ' water company ' have the meaning give by section 6 ( 5 ) . " this new clause would provide for any fine impose on water company to result in equivalent reduction to customer ’ bill . new clause 20 — principle of good regulatory practice — " in section 2 of the Water Industry Act 1991 , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — ( 4A ) for the purpose of have regard to the principle of good regulatory practice , the Authority shall not employ any individual who have be employ by a relevant undertaker in the precede three year . " new clause 21 — environmental duty with respect to protect landscape — " after section 4 of the Water Industry Act 1991 insert — ' 4A environmental duty with respect to protect landscape ( 1 ) where a relevant undertaker operate , or have any effect , on land within protect landscape , that undertaker must — ( a ) secure and maintain " high ecological status " in the water in these area by 2028 ; ( b ) far the conservation and enhancement of wildlife and natural beauty ; ( c ) improve every storm overflow that discharge within these area by 2028 ; ( d ) reduce the load of total phosphorus discharge into freshwater within these area from relevant discharge by 2028 to at least 90 % low than the baseline as define in Regulation 13 ( 1 ) of the Waste Water Targets set under the Environment Targets ( Water ) ( England ) Regulations 2023 . ( 2 ) a relevant undertaker must be put into special administration , and not be eligible for a further licence , if it fail to — ( a ) demonstrate adequate progress each year ; ( b ) meet the target in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) within one year of the day on which the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 be pass , the Secretary of State must lay a report on the undertaker ' implementation of the environmental duty in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) before Parliament . ( 4 ) follow the first report be publish under subsection ( 3 ) , a progress report on implementation must be include in the annual environment improvement plan , issue under section 8 of the Environment Act 2021 . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision require an undertaker to achieve bespoke objective for specific iconic and the most culturally and ecologically significant waterway , include , where appropriate , complete removal of sewage discharge from the undertaker ' s infrastructure . ( 6 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 7 ) in this section — " protect landscape " include national park , national landscape and national trail ; " land " include river , lake , stream , estuarine and other waterway ; " High Ecological Status " mean the classification of water body define in Regulation 6 of the Water Environment ( Water Framework Directive ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2017 . ' " new clause 22 — consultation on public ownership of water company — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must within three month of this Act come into force , publish a public consultation on make provision for the transfer of ownership of undertaker to public ownership . ( 2 ) the consultation must consider — ( a ) the process of transfer private water company to public ownership ; ( b ) the circumstance in which water company will be transfer to public ownership ; ( c ) the establishment of new public body to manage water service ; ( d ) transition arrangement for employee , contract , and ongoing operation ; ( e ) governance structure for publicly - own water service , include provision for local democratic control and accountability . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within twelve month of the passing of this Act , lie before both Houses of Parliament a report on this consultation . " new clause 23 — special administration for breach of environmental and other obligation — " ( 1 ) section 24 of the Water Industry Act 1991 ( special administration order make on special petition ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) , insert — ' ( aa ) that there have be failure result in enforcement action from the Authority or the Environment Agency on three or more occasion to — ( i ) maintain efficient and economical water supply , ( ii ) improve main for the flow of clean water , ( iii ) provide sewerage system that be effectually drain , ( iv ) comply with the term of its licence , or ( v ) abide by anti - pollution duty in the Environmental Protection Act 1990 , Water Resources Act 1991 , or the Environmental Permitting ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2016 ( SI 2016 / 1154 ) ; ' ( 3 ) after subsection ( 2 ) , insert — ' ( 2A ) in support of an application make by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) in relation to subsection ( 2 ) ( aa ) , the Secretary of State must compile and present to the High Court record of — ( a ) water pipe leak ( b ) sewage spill into waterway , bathing water , and private property , and ( c ) fall below international standard of effective water management . ' " this new clause aim to require the Secretary of State to place a water company into special administration arrangement if they breach certain environmental or other condition . new clause 24 — special administration : criminal conviction — " after subsection ( 2 ) ( e ) of section 24 of the Water Industry Act 1991 insert — ' ( f ) that have be the recipient of two or more criminal conviction in the last five year . ' " this new clause aim to exert pressure on company to operate within the law by prevent water company with numerous criminal conviction from remain in business . new clause 25 — company to be place in special measure for miss pollution target — " in section 2 of the Water Industry Act 1991 , after subsection ( 2D ) insert — ' ( 2dza ) for the purpose of ensure that the function of water and sewerage undertaker be properly carry out , the Authority must establish — ( a ) annual , and ( b ) roll five - year average pollution target which must be meet by water and sewerage undertaker , and the penalty to be impose for failure to meet such target . ( 2DZB ) the performance of a water or sewerage undertaker against such target must be measure through independent analysis of monitor datum . ( 2dzc ) a timetable produce under subsection ( 2dza ) ( b ) must require the follow reduction in the duration of sewage spill event , use the annual total hour ' duration of all sewage spill event record by Event Duration Monitors , base on an average from the last five year , as a baseline — ( a ) a 25 % reduction within five year ; ( b ) a 60 % reduction within ten year ; ( c ) an 85 % reduction within fifteen year ; and ( d ) a 99 % reduction within twenty year . ( 2dzd ) a water or sewerage undertaker which fail to meet pollution target set out by the Authority will be subject to such special measure as the Authority deem appropriate , which may include — ( a ) be require to work on improvement project with or take instruction from the Authority , the relevant Government department , or such other body or authority as the Authority deem appropriate ; and ( b ) financial penalty . ' " new clause 26 — independent review : company exit a special administration regime — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , either — ( a ) commission an independent review , or ( b ) take step to extend the term of reference of any exist independent review or commission , to consider the merit of change the law to provide that a water company exit a special administration regime become a company mutually own by its customer . ( 2 ) a review under subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the general merit of mutual ownership of water company in such circumstance , and ( b ) what model of mutual ownership would be most suitable . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , as soon as practicable after receive a report of a review under subsection ( 1 ) , lie before both Houses of Parliament — ( a ) a copy of the report , and ( b ) a statement set out the Secretary of State ' s response to that report . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission an independent review of the potential merit of change the law so that a water company exit a special administration regime become a company mutually own by its customer . amendment 23 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Authority must use its power under subsection ( 1 ) to issue rule which require — ( a ) the interest of customer , and ( b ) the environment , to be list as primary objective in a relevant undertaker ' s Articles of Association . " amendment 15 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( d ) require the management board of a relevant undertaker to include at least one representative of each of the following — ( i ) group for the benefit and interest of consumer ; ( ii ) group for the benefit and interest of resident of the area in which the undertaker be operational ; ( iii ) expert in water and sewerage policy and management ; and ( iv ) environmental interest group . " Amendment 16 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( d ) prevent a relevant undertaker from employ any individual who have be employ by the Authority in the precede three year . " Amendment 17 , in clause 2 , page 4 , line 34 , after " occurrence " insert " and impact " . amendment 19 , in clause 2 , page 5 , line 15 , after " occurrence " insert " and impact " . amendment 18 , in clause 2 , page 5 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( ea ) the use the undertaker plan to make of nature - base solution for reduce the occurrence and impact of pollution incident , " . amendment 11 , in clause 3 , page 7 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( e ) the volume of the discharge . " Amendment 12 , in clause 3 , page 7 , line 38 , leave out " subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) " and insert " subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) and ( e ) " . amendment 1 , in clause 3 , page 8 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( c ) be publish on the home page of the undertaker ' s website . " this amendment would ensure that information regard a discharge from an emergency overflow must be publish on the home page of the undertaker ' s website . amendment 13 , in clause 3 , page 8 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( c ) be upload and update automatically , where possible ; ( d ) be make available on the undertaker ' s website alongside searchable and comparable historic datum . " Amendment 14 , in clause 3 , page 8 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the undertaker must ensure that , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , appropriate monitor be instal to collect the information require by subsection ( 1 ) . " amendment 22 , in clause 3 , page 8 , line 27 , leave out from start to " in " and insert " a Minister with specific responsibility for issue relate to the coast , " . amendment 2 , in clause 3 , page 9 , line 23 , at end insert — " 141H Failure to report discharge from emergency overflow ( 1 ) if a relevant undertaker fail to comply with its duty under section 141f — ( a ) the undertaker commit an offence , and ( b ) the chief executive of the undertaker commit an offence , subject to subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) it be a defence for the chief executive to prove that they take all reasonable step to avoid the failure . ( 3 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable , on summary conviction or conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 5 year or an unlimited fine , or both . " this amendment would make it an offence for an undertaker to fail to comply with its duty to report discharge from emergency overflow . amendment 3 , in clause 3 , page 9 , line 23 , at end insert — " 141H Restriction on the use of emergency overflow in area use for aquatic sport ( 1 ) a sewerage undertaker must not permit a discharge from an emergency overflow in an area use for aquatic sport . ( 2 ) in this section , an " area use for aquatic sport " be a section of any body of water connect to and within a one mile radius of — ( a ) the clubhouse of a rowing club affiliate with British Rowing , ( b ) a Royal Yacht association training centre or the clubhouse of an affiliate member , and ( c ) the property or facility use by any organisation that the Secretary of State deem to provides water - base sporting activity for the purpose of teaching , training or leisure . ( 3 ) if a relevant undertaker fail to comply with its duty under section ( 1 ) — ( a ) the undertaker commit an offence , and ( b ) the chief executive of the undertaker commit an offence , subject to subsection ( 4 ) . ( 4 ) it be a defence for the chief executive to prove that they take all reasonable step to avoid the failure ( 5 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable , on summary conviction or conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 5 year or an unlimited fine , or both . " this amendment create an offence for a sewerage undertaker to use an emergency overflow in an area use for aquatic sport . amendment 20 , in clause 4 , page 9 , line 29 , leave out " use that be to be make of " and insert " priority that be to be give to " . amendment 21 , in clause 9 , page 13 , line 40 , leave out from " duty " to end of page 14 , line 2 . government amendment 4 . amendment 9 , in clause 12 , page 15 , line 34 , leave out from " to " to " such " in line 36 and insert " recover from its creditor " . amendment 26 , in clause 12 , page 15 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the Secretary of State may not require or permit any modify charge to be impose on person who do not receive service from the company for the purpose of make good any SAO loss . " Amendment 10 , in clause 13 , page 18 , line 13 , leave out from " to " to " such " in line 15 and insert " recover from its creditor " . Amendment 27 , in clause 13 , page 18 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the Secretary of State may not require or permit any modify charge to be impose on person who do not receive service from the company for the purpose of make good any SAO loss . " Amendment 24 , in clause 15 , page 21 , line 4 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) to ( 8 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) the provision of this Act come into force on the day on which this Act be pass . " government amendment 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 . what a delight it be to be back in the Chamber debate this transformational Bill . I will keep my opening comment brief , because I know that many want to speak , and I will respond to amendment table by hon . member when close this debate after hon . member have speak to they , as be establish practice . I want to start by thank all member of the Public Bill Committee for their careful consideration and scrutiny of the Bill and , dare I say , their comradery in discussion and debate . it be clear that this be an area that everyone acknowledge be in need of change and reform . I also thank the Chairs , the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) and my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton ( Dr Huq ) . it be a pleasure to serve under they . since be in Committee , I have have several further insightful conversation on the Bill with member from across the House and on the amendment table by the Government for consideration on Report , which I will take the opportunity to speak to now . I will start with Government amendment 4 , which be a minor and technical amendment that ensure that clause 10 encompass new enforcement function arise from the change make to clause 2 in the other place . government amendment 4 clarifie that cost recovery power for the Environment Agency , expand by the provision in clause 10 , also extend to cost incur when enforce the requirement to publish implementation plan . that requirement be add on Report in the Lords after cross - party discussion and collaboration . the amendment also clarify that EA cost recovery power concern both pollution incident reduction plan and implementation report be available for plan cover area that be wholly or mainly in Wales , as well as for plan cover England , which be already include in clause 10 . such clarification ensure that the EA regulator in both England and Wales can fully recover cost for the extent of their water company enforcement activity and carry out their duty and function effectively . the Government have table amendment 5 to 7 in order to commence clause 1 on Royal Assent . that will give Ofwat and company certainty on when the power to make rule on remuneration and governance will come into force and will therefore be useful to company in plan for the 2025 - 26 financial year . commencement of clause 1 on Royal Assent will ensure Ofwat can implement its rule as soon as possible follow its statutory consultation with relevant person , which include the Secretary of State , Welsh Ministers and the Consumer Council for Water . I know that some member have express concern around the timeline over which ofwat ' s rule will come into effect . I therefore hope the alteration to the commencement provision for clause 1 will reassure those member that the Government and the regulator be absolutely committed to ensure Ofwat ' s rule be put in place as quickly as possible . I now turn to new clause 18 , which be the most substantial of the Government amendment . as I have state before , this Government be a Government of service , and we be absolutely committed to take action to address water poverty . we be work with industry to keep exist support scheme under review to ensure vulnerable customer across the country be support . we also expect company to hold themselves accountable for their public commitment to end water poverty by 2030 and will work with the sector to ensure appropriate measure be take to deliver that . that be why we have table the new clause , which add to the exist power to provide for special charging arrangement for customer in need . the new provision will enable water company to provide consistent support for consumer across the country . it will also allow for automatic enrolment on any future scheme and broad information sharing between public authority and water company . the clause impose a requirement for consultation on any future scheme , and it also amend the Digital Economy Act 2017 to ensure that water company identify eligible customer and that they get the full support to which they be entitle . I be grateful to the Minister for give way and for her ongoing discussion about drainage and local authority and other water - relate matter . on the issue of water poverty , can she confirm that , either as part of the Bill or as an adjunct to it , when water company fail to deliver an adequate service in new build situation — where new house be build , but the water infrastructure be insufficient to furnish those new house with the proper supply of water — the Bill and the regulatory environment that she have just describe will allow customer to get their entitlement and to free themselves from water poverty , as she put it ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention and also for the many time that he have talk to I about internal drainage board since I become a Minister . on his question , if customer be not get the service to which they be entitle , that be absolutely something that should be take through Ofwat and the regulator . I be more than happy to pick that matter up with he outside the Chamber . I hope that member across the House will agree that new clause 18 be a welcome addition to the Bill , ensure that the Government have the necessary power in place to bring forward secondary legislation in future — once we have thoroughly consider all option for improve the support available for vulnerable customer . do the Minister agree that it be supremely unjust that , in Wales , customer face some of the high bill for their water , despite have some of the low income in the United Kingdom ? bill have obviously have to increase in the late price review because we have have record level of under - investment in our infrastructure . however , new clause 18 be intend to ensure great fairness . it be important for struggle customer that he , as the local Member of Parliament , be talk to the water company to ensure that they be inform about the support mechanism that be available , and about how they can access they and everything else to which they be entitle . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for give way . she will know that just 7 % of outfall be monitor when Labour last leave office . I be pleased to say that that figure be now 100 % . do she not agree that new clause 16 would ensure that the fine collect from pollute water company through the water restoration fund , which be found by the Conservatives in 2022 , be use to improve and prevent further deterioration of our waterway , include our precious chalk stream ? will she now do what we all look to Ministers to do , which be pirouette at the Dispatch Box , recognise the rightness of the cause and change course ? the right hon . Gentleman be indeed an eager beaver . as much as I do not wish to pour water on his enthusiasm , I will of course respond to all the amendment at the end of this stage of the Bill , as protocol expect . I hope he be able to contain his excitement , and be look forward to my final comment on that area . and I shall be practise my pirouette in anticipation . I wish to pay special thank to the Welsh Government , the Deputy First Minister and the official who have work so openly and collaboratively with the UK Government throughout the development and passage of this Bill . I also thank the Senedd for their consent , which we receive on 21 January . I look forward to continue to work closely with our Welsh counterpart to protect our river , lake and sea , particularly those that cross our border . I thank my hon . friend for all her work on this Bill . do she agree that we have make much more progress on ban boss ' bonus in the six month that we have be in office than the Conservatives do in 14 year ? that excellent point be well make by my hon . friend . I hope all hon . member agree that the amendment table by the Government will only strengthen this Bill and will support new clause 18 . rise — order . we have many contribution to come and quite a tight deadline , so Back Benchers will be limit to four minute . I call the shadow Minister . I appreciate the opportunity to discuss this vital issue of water quality once again . as his Majesty ' s most loyal opposition have maintain through the passage of the Bill , it be just an attempt to copy and paste some of the work do by the previous Conservative Government and the measure take to identify the problem . we will not shy away from the fact that the Conservative Government be the first to identify the scale of the sewage problem and actually to start to address it . as my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) just say , when Labour leave office in 2010 , only 7 % of storm overflow be monitor . when we conservative leave office last year , 100 % be monitor and our landmark Environment Act 2021 pave the way to improve the quality of our precious water . however , we be under no illusion : there be always more that can be do , and we have always say that we will seek to work constructively to make the Bill as effective as possible . in that spirit , I thank the Minister for her willingness to discuss matter of the Bill with I and with colleague across the House ; the Minister in the other place , Baroness Hayman , show an equal willingness to listen to suggestion from colleague . I also thank member of the Bill Committee for their constructive approach and all the Bill team , Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and parliamentary staff support this legislation and our scrutiny of it . as a result of that dialogue , the Bill now include welcome improvement in several area , such as company requirement to produce implementation report to outline how they envision their commitment on improve water quality happen , as well as consideration of nature - base solution in licensing activity . however , in that same constructive spirit , the Opposition today ask the Government to go even far . we want the Government to back our new clause 16 mandate the water restoration fund , which have cross - party support in Committee . I thank the good folk of the Conservative Environment Network and Wildlife and Countryside Link for their support and campaigning on the new clause , as well as the Angling Trust for its discussion . I also thank the former MP for Ludlow and former Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee Philip Dunne for his assiduous effort to see the fund introduce . these be very substantial sum . a water company in my region be fine £ 100 million the year before last . it be vital that these amount go to our chalk stream , which be in desperate need of they . I totally agree with my right hon . friend . it be right that if water company do the wrong thing , the money levy from they be plough back into improve the water and not back into Treasury coffer . the water restoration fund , since be introduce by the previous Conservative Government , provide £ 11 million for community to repair their local waterway and restore they to the quality they should be . to follow up the point make by our right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) , that money will ultimately come from water bill payer . it will be ordinary family across the country who must contribute to the £ 100 million fine or whatever be impose on our water company . for that to be take and then swallow by the Treasury , rather than use to improve water , would be a disgrace . do he not agree that the Government must accept new clause 16 ? I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . I will come on to an amendment we have also table to ensure that if fine be levy on water company , customer ’ bill go down accordingly , so that taxpayer and bill payer be not penalise for water company do the wrong thing . the Government have make ejection in this House and in the other place to the principle of ringfence the funding and have state the need for the Treasury to have flexibility on how it spend that money , but in this specific case , their argument still do not stack up . where money come from taxation , ringfencing be not always the most reliable way to ensure that the Treasury can have the spending power it need to deliver that spending , but here we be talk about something very different . fine be much more uncertain and provide less of a guarantee regard the amount of money they will bring in . to rely on those fund for day - to - day Treasury spending do not make sense . ringfence those penalty for our water restoration fund be a sensible measure that enable government to guarantee they can meet a specific need . water company pay the fine for the damage they have do , and the local community affect be empower to have their local waterway restore . it be worth repeat the fine detail of our amendment ; it should not go ignore that this will also improve chalk stream . it be incredibly disappointing that over Christmas , the Government reveal that they have abandon plan by the Conservatives to recover our chalk stream . give that England be home to 80 % of the world ' s chalk stream , a failure to act on this issue neglect a vital duty to protect a key part of our environment . in light of this , we believe that the Government need to think again about reject our important amendment , which be a matter of principle , a matter of justice in right wrong , and a fundamental commitment to water quality . when it come to improve our water , it be support those who be most affect when water company fail to abide by their duty that be at the heart of the Opposition ' s concern — the british public , as individual consumer , bill payer and member of local community . customer must not pay the price for water company ' failure to do their duty , whether financial , environmental or otherwise . as such , the Opposition have table new clause 19 , which would require the DEFRA Secretary of State to provide that where a water company have face financial penalty for failure to comply with the law , a financial amount equal to those penalty must be remove from the bill of that water company ' s consumer . this be very important , as a toxic cocktail of poor behaviour by water company and rise bill price have lead to many people feel that they be receive poor value for money and not get the quality water service that they deserve . a concomitant reduction in customer bill that people will see directly on their statement will be a real and tangible sign that poor behaviour be not go unchecked . the Government have previously reject the proposal , but we urge they to think again about this simple yet effective amendment that would do so much to underpin all the work that be be do and protect bill payer . I turn to some of our further amendment . our concern about the water industry and finance extend to what be in the Bill as it stand — in particular , the provision for special administration order in clause 12 and 13 , which the opposition have raise in the other place and in Committee . those clause would give the Government the power to recover any loss they make through place a company in special administration by raise consumer bill . my conservative colleague in the other place sound the alarm on this issue , and I put on record again my thank to they for do so . if water company require the Government to place they in special administration through their own failure , why should consumer foot the bill for failure they have have no influence on or responsibility for ? that be particularly the case if a customer ' s bill will rise as a result of mismanagement by a company whose service they do not even rely on . this proposal run contrary to the nature of all the action take in recent year to improve water quality , whereby company that be responsible for fail to get their affair in order must take responsibility . we have all be starkly aware of concern surround the financial resilience of Thames Water , and as many will know , Ofwat ' s " monitor financial resilience " report in November identify 10 company that need an increase level of monitoring and / or engagement concern financial resilience . we acknowledge that the Government believe that they expect to use special administration order as a last resort and in limited circumstance . however , it be the Opposition ' s firm belief that an injustice remain , with people have to pay for company that they have no connection to . we have therefore table amendment 26 and 27 , which would explicitly forbid the raising of price for consumer who do not use the service of the water company that be in special administration . we believe this be a fair and reasonable compromise that the Government should accept , so that we can work to improve the water industry ' s financial practice . we have also table new clause 17 , which would amend the Water Industry Act 1991 to insert new rule regard limit on the amount of money that can be borrow by a water company . regrettably , the Government reject this sensible measure in Committee , so we have table it again to ensure that water company do not excessively borrow money , which be ultimately bad for bill payer . when we talk about financial resilience , the heart of the issue be concern about borrowing , and the resultant over - leverage in the industry . we will be push that new clause to a Division . we will also be support the measure on nature recovery that we table in Committee . we will be look very closely at some of the amendment from the Liberal Democrats . new clause 2 , which they table in Committee , would abolish Ofwat . at that stage , we point out that the new clause be not explicit about what it would transition to , so we do not believe that be a sensible way forward . new clause 18 would grant the Government a power to create a unified scheme of charge arrangement for customer in need of support regardless of the specific supplier , and introduce a consultation for that purpose . although the opposition welcome look at that , can the government please ensure that other consumer do not face rise bill as a result ? it will be interesting to see what the Government do with that . to conclude , we urge the Government not to waste this opportunity to make this Bill properly effective . member on both side of the House want a clean water system , a healthy water environment , financially resilient water company and fairness for the consumer . the Government have the opportunity to work towards that , with the constructive suggestion make by his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . we have make those suggestion at all stage of the Bill , and we urge the Government to take they forward . back Benchers be on a four - minute limit . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . first , I thank EFRA Ministers for the work they have do on this Bill , and for everything they have be do in work on the consultation . it be quite clear to most of the public that not only be England ' s privatised model of water fail , but it be an extreme ideological outlier . it be one of the bad for cost and result . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) be chuntere away in his place . we need a long - term , patient approach , especially give the climate crisis , and that be fundamentally incompatible with privatisation . while the chief executive officer of Thames Water be get £ 195 , 000 in bonus , we in Harpenden and Berkhamsted see over 100 day of non - stop sewage in our river , which be a chalk stream . the same be now happen again , one year later , with 1 , 000 hour of non - stop sewage . do the hon . Member agree that the system clearly do not work , and that such bonus do not provide the right incentive ? I agree with the hon . Lady . I hope her party come to its sense at some point — maybe in the same way that my party need to come to its sense — and accept that some form of public ownership will probably be the good way to resolve that . have you ? that be my personal view ; I put that on the record . these company have legal obligation first and foremost to their shareholder , which mean short - term profit maximisation . when water be privatised , to quote from Unison ' s recent report on this matter , to " ensure the commercial success of the company , the government write off all the exist debt of the rwa " — regional water authority — " ( £ 6 . 5 billion in total ) and give the private company £ 7 . 7 billion of public subsidy in tax relief on profit . " it have come to my attention that even some former chief executive of water company fear for the future of the industry , because good investor have by and large exit it . it be now the Macquaries and vulture capitalist of this world that dominate shareholding . this issue go far beyond regulation . indeed , our own regulator , Ofwat , have be find want , as its own growth duty prioritise business as usual . in other area , the Government have quite rightly recognise and embrace the value of public ownership , such as in rail and with great British Energy . unfortunately , when it come to water company there seem to be an inconsistency in Government policy . many of we on this side of the House run on a manifesto commitment to reduce the cost of living , and that commitment be one that I think every Labour MP believe in . however , the cost of corruption and of extraction by a private water company should under no circumstance , as be currently configure in the Bill , land on the head of our constituent should any of these company go bust or be take into special administration . water be a monopoly industry , which mean that bill payer and taxpayer be the same . what message would it send to our constituent if they be ask to pay , via their bill or via tax , to make a payout for the mistake and excess of privatised water ? doubtless the behaviour of the privatised firm should be look at closely , but one of the fundamental of have a state - run system for such long - term asset be that they be chronically under - invest . they could never win out in the political battle between school , hospital and long - term water infrastructure , and only privatisation allow the record investment that have go in since . the hon . Gentleman ought to recognise that in try to get the balance right . I do recognise that , and not for one second be I call for nationalisation , which be the model the right hon . Member be talk about . there be a plethora of possibility for public ownership , from mutualisation through to give regional authority more scope , and even work with the private sector . we must ensure that the public have a critical say over the future of water , and there be multiple form that public ownership can take . I be not necessarily in favour of 1970 - style nationalisation , which be pretty much what they have in Scotland at the moment . I will , however , ask those on the Front Bench to consider new clause 8 and ensure that our constituent — the people we come into politic for — do not foot a single penny more for the failure of privatised water . investor , shareholder and creditor should be the one who take the haircut . they should be the one who foot the bill because of what they have do to our water . this should not be land on the head of our constituent . this be a political choice , and I urge my government to make it clear that we will always back the public , not the private company that have get we into this mess . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I pay tribute to the Minister and the Bill team from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs who be in the Chamber , as well as to all my colleague who sit on the Committee for what be a genuinely enjoyable and collegiate experience . I hope they will forgive I for make a few criticism in the next few minute . we table 44 amendment in Committee , but only 34 today , you will be delighted to know Madam Deputy Speaker — [ interruption . ] I know — I be fail . I will not speak to all of they for blindingly obvious reason . we table those amendment because we in the Liberal Democrats , humbly yet enthusiastically , have take on the mantle in this place and beyond of be the voice for many thousand of campaigner , volunteer and citizen scientist who continue to lead the way in expose the failure and injustice in the water industry , and fight for meaningful change . we be immensely grateful to those people all across the country . our water industry have become a money - make vessel for speculator , who appear to care little for the quality of our river , lake and sea — something I can tell the House be a source of great fury in England ' s precious Lake district . the water company have accumulate £ 70 billion in debt since privatisation , while still manage to pay out £ 83 billion in dividend . that be more than a third of the total spend on infrastructure during that time . in the last year , water company pay out £ 9 . 3 million in executive bonus , and Thames Water ' s bonus double to £ 1 . 3 million that year . money leak out of the industry , infrastructure be fail , and it be our constituent who pay the price . meanwhile the regulatory framework have fail utterly and be not fit for purpose . as I speak , £ 164 million in fine have be levy against water company by Ofwat , follow an investigation that begin four year ago , of which it have so far fail to collect a single penny . Thames Water have have an increase in the number of pollution incident , which go up 40 % in six month last year . it have be issue with fine , but that have not change anything . do my hon . friend agree that we need regulation with proper tooth , and that new clause 25 would do exactly that by put water company into special measure when they fail our constituent ? I strongly agree with my hon . friend . the water company simply do not fear Ofwat , or indeed any other part of our fragmented regulatory system . they dwarf Ofwat in term of resource , they flout the limited regulation that they face , and they run ring around the regulator and obviously get away with it . there be the outrage of the water company be permit , just before Christmas , to increase water bill by 36 % by 2030 , and what make it even bad be that a third of customer ’ bill be be spend just on service the debt — a debt that be in part run up to fund excessive dividend . water company be already pass on the consequence of their complete financial mismanagement to our constituent — their customer — but this Bill could enable that to go far and to be even bad . accord to the Government ' s explanatory note , " follow the provision of financial assistance by the Secretary of State to a company in special administration " , clause 12 of the Bill , as draft , would " require a water company to raise amount of money determine by the Secretary of State from its consumer , and to pay those amount to the Secretary of State to make good any shortfall " . in other word , when a water company go into special administration , there be a cost to the Government of ensure that supply be maintain , and the Government need to recoup that cost . that sound reasonable at first glimpse , but it do not seem reasonable that bill payer should have to pick up the tab , despite bear none of the blame for the financial mess a water company find itself in . my hon . friend and I be keen to press amendment 9 , which would make it explicit that it should be the creditor of the company — the big financial investor that have load debt on to the water company — that cover those cost instead . the amendment would strike out the Government ' s provision in the Bill that open up bill payer to carry the cost of pay off company debt , even in the event of bankruptcy . I fear that the Government ' s drive for growth have mean that they have become fearful of the tough regulation that my hon . friend suggest . they see it only as an impediment , instead of the basis for a stable economy . do he agree that weak regulation be not only bad for consumer and for the environment , but also for investment over the long run ? somebody represent the water industry will say that the water industry , as structure , be deeply unappealing to investor . there be a case for change the model of how we structure those company . when a company go into special administration , we do not think it be right that innocent customer should have to foot the bill . the management of those company , and their investor and creditor , be responsible for the mess the company be in . they take the risk and speculate in order to make money , so it be only right that they should have to cover the cost of the risk that they take , not our constituent . one of the positive aspect of the Bill be the Government ' s decision to deploy volunteer , citizen scientist and campaigner to ensure scrutiny of the water industry . only last week , I spend time speak with the leader of the Save Windermere campaign and the Clean River Kent Campaign . I also enjoy get my hand dirty and my leg very wet alongside the Eden Rivers Trust in the River Eden not long ago . we be lucky across the whole country to have passionate , committed , expert volunteer who be dedicate to clean up and protect our precious waterway , yet we be sadden that the Government have fail to provide those volunteer with the resource they need or the power they deserve . do my hon . friend agree that one kind of support that such community group need be water restoration grant ? those be vital and will flow from the water restoration fund , which be the subject of one of his amendment . those fund be vital to clean up bathing water across the country . those fund be vital . bathing water status be important . we hope that DEFRA will come out with new criterion soon so that place such as the River Kent can bid to be include . we have table new clause 4 , 10 , 13 and 15 , which between they would strengthen the hand of those wonderful volunteer , include by ensure that the Government ' s propose live database , which we support , retain comprehensive historical datum . if it do not , the Government be expect campaigner to be watch that database 24 / 7 . if they have the temerity to go to sleep , look after their kid or go to work , they may miss something . if we be to back campaigner and volunteer , the least we can do be give they the tool to scrutinise water company ' performance . Knowledge be power , and our amendment would give those campaigner knowledge and power . new clause 11 and amendment 14 address monitoring . event duration monitor tell we how long a spill take place over . for instance , they tell we that last February , United Utilities spill into windermere for 10 hour in one go , but those monitor do not tell we anything about volume . as a result , they do not tell we enough about the impact of sewage spill on the ecology and wildlife of our waterway . it be equally possible to have a long duration trickle or a short duration deluge of sewage into our lake , river and sea . new clause 11 would insist that water company have to measure and report on the volume of discharge and that regulator hold they to it . new clause 25 would put into law concrete pollution target and proper penalty when company fail to meet they . company who fail to meet those target would be put into what we be call special measure , mean that they would be subject to financial penalty and / or be make to undertake a specific improvement project . no water company chief executive will quake in their boot if they be not hold to target that be ambitious and enforceable with penalty , and which actually mean something . water industry staff do amazing work , give we the world ' s clean drinking water and work their sock off to tackle and repair leak , to bolster infrastructure and to oversee the operation of waste water treatment system to serve our community . they be just as much victim as their fellow bill payer of the utterly fail system that we be face with . the system have fail for two key reason : inadequate regulation and a broken ownership and financial model . that be why we propose through new clause 2 the abolition of Ofwat and the creation of a new consolidated super - regulator , with the power , focus and resource to hold the water industry to account and to enforce strong rule . new clause 26 would migrate water company away from the fail privatised model and towards mutual ownership status . this would prevent the water industry from be use as a cash cow for speculator , where bill payer pay the price through high bill and sewage - infest river and lake , and instead create a form of ownership where a " low risk , with modest but reliable reward " model would ensure that we attract responsible investor and prevent money leak out of the system in the form of unearned dividend and immoral financing of colossal debt . we recognise the Government ' s decision to present the Bill now and hold out the hope of more radical change later in the Parliament , follow the recommendation of Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s review . we confess , however , to suffer from extreme raise eyebrow syndrome today , as it have be reveal that a former Thames Water executive have be appoint to Sir Jon ' s independent water commission . that do not fill we with enormous confidence . the Bill be okay — it be even good in part — but it would be significantly well with the Liberal Democrats ' suggest amendment . we humbly ask right hon . and hon . member to support those amendment , and especially amendment 9 , to give the british people the radical water industry clean - up that they vote for . I thank the Minister for bring forward the Bill so fast in the first six month of the Government . it be an honour to sit on the Bill Committee and to engage in constructive discussion with hon . member from across the House . however , I must take issue with the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) and his veritable smorgasbord of amendment and new clause . I will not support they , because , let we remember , this be just the first step in clean up the appalling mess we have be leave with our water company . I be sure that the commission will bring forward idea for more legislation . I grow up in the countryside on a farm , and one of my favourite memory be run down the garden and out into the river at the bottom , go for a walk and splosh through the stream . I and my family take it for grant that we could just mess about in the stream . apart from really annoy my mum when I get back by leave a messy puddle of water on the floor , there be never any fear that I would get sick or that I have be wade through sewage . what a change there have be , with parent now worried about their child go into the water . they can not run helter - skelter into the local chalk stream for fear that they will get an ear infection or an eye infection , or perhaps encounter a wet wipe or something much bad . sadly , the health of the Wye and the Usk , our two majestic river in Monmouthshire , have really suffer over the past 14 year . I have spend many happy hour walk alongside they , see heron and kingfisher , and we have have some of our happy family day out there . the dreadful state that those two river be in make they two really good example of the 14 year of conservative failure and flimflam . we have record level of illegal sewage dumping in our river , lake and sea , and chronic ongoing diffuse pollution from agriculture . in every constituency across the UK there be amazing group of citizen scientist who have really bring our river to the fore . I pay tribute to save the River Usk and Friends of the River Wye in Monmouthshire , who be among the good in the UK . [ interruption . ] I be afraid that I will not give way as we be under extreme time pressure . one of my key promise in the election campaign be to work to clean up our river . Feargal Sharkey endorse my campaign — when someone like he endorse a campaign , we know that we will be hold to account . that be why I be so pleased that in the last six month we have do more than the Conservatives and the Lib Dems when they be in coalition . I be proud that we be already stand here debate the Bill , only six month in . it will bring criminal charge against persistent lawbreaker , with penalty include imprisonment . in addition , the cost recovery power of regulator will be expand to ensure that water company bear the cost of enforcement action take in response to their failing . we have be leave a very difficult legacy due to the disastrous inaction of the Tories and the Lib Dems when they be in coalition . it will take much more work and many year across border , with both farmer and water company , to restore our river , but the Bill make an excellent start to clean up the horrific mess . it will mean that in future , I hope , parent will be able to allow their child to run helter - skelter into their local river and stream . I would like to speak to amendment 2 and 3 , table in my name . amendment 2 would far strengthen the Bill by make it a criminal offence for water company to fail to report discharge from emergency overflow . amendment 3 would prohibit such discharge in river area such as the Thames that be use for aquatic sport . I have the privilege of represent the town and village of Beaconsfield , Marlow , Bourne end and the south Bucks village . unfortunately , we be serve by Thames Water , and we have some of the high level of fine in the country . we be bless with a beautiful waterway set throughout my constituency , include the River Thames . our area be rich in watersport club — the Marlow rowing club , the Marlow canoe club and the Upper Thames sail club to name but three . young people from high school and grammar school use the Thames for their water sport as well . amendment 3 would give water use for aquatic sport the same protection as that use for bathe . it would establish clear consequence for water company and their chief executive where they fail to comply with a clear duty to protect the water in which people practise aquatic sport , particularly row . that be particularly true of Thames Water and of the Thames . I appreciate the cross - party support in Committee on these amendment . aquatic sport be an important part of our sporting heritage in this country , but storm overflow discharge into our river have adversely affect the health of participant , create an ongoing health risk to rowing , sail , canoe and other aquatic sport club along the Thames and across the country . many club , particularly in place such as Marlow , take their duty of care very seriously , and be have to put in place their own monitoring system to protect their member . amendment 3 would ensure that water use for aquatic sport be put on the same statutory footing as bathing water . it be time for water company to take responsibility for ensure that those water be safe to use , and to protect our young people for the future . the amendment set out a reasonable expectation that a water company must not discharge an emergency overflow within a 1 - mile radius of an area use for aquatic sport . the definition of such an area be clearly outline , and further discretion be provide for the Secretary of State to determine such area where need . the amendment would bring much - need support to our vital aquatic sport . my hon . friend and constituency neighbour and I , along with my hon . friend the Member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) and the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , have hold a number of meeting with local stakeholder and the Canal & River Trust about these issue , which affect the River Colne , which cross our respective constituency . do she share my appreciation of the measure introduce by the last government , which ensure effective monitoring ? will she join I in thank Conservative - lead Hertfordshire , Buckinghamshire and Hillingdon council for their work to ensure that watersport user have access to good quality , clean facility ? my hon . friend raise an excellent point — the previous Government put in place monitor for all waterway so that we can hold water company to account . he mention the cross - border and cross - party effort , but mainly those of the conservative council that work together to hold Thames Water and other water company to account . I be surprised that the Government do not readily accept amendment 3 , as it be not party political . it be about necessary support for our vital aquatic sport club , and would far strengthen the protection of waterway use for aquatic sport across the country . that would include the Thames and other river across England , many in area where young people access waterway and where there be storm overflow . I urge the Government to accept these reasonable and important amendment to strengthen the Bill . water quality and sewage pollution be one of the most pressing issue in my constituency . in the past year alone , we have have 57 sewage dump — the equivalent of 594 hour of sewage spill — at Bournemouth pier . as many member will know , Bournemouth pier be a place where people surf , paddleboard , swim and walk their dog . it be a magnet for tourism . this be more than just an environmental issue ; it be a public health issue , with people frequently get sick from swim in the sea . it also have massive economic consequence for my constituency , which thousand of people visit over the summer . it be impact our reputation , our business and our tourism industry . however , it be also a matter of deep pride for my constituent . we be proud to be one of the most beautiful bit of coastline in the UK — we be often rank in the top 20 in Europe . my constituent want to enjoy those coastal water , not be afraid to go in they . it be a situation that can not be allow to continue . I be truly glad the Conservatives have find some vim on this issue , but I gently remind they that we do not come to power in a vacuum . we be face a victorian situation with the amount of sewage , and that come from a failure to deal with systemic issue . [ interruption . ] despite their protestation , the Conservatives ' action have speak louder than their word . under the previous Government , we hear talk of scrap nutrient neutrality , and they slash the Environment Agency ' s budget , with the then water Minister instruct the Environment Agency not to publish datum . we have hear all about the increase in monitoring , but if they know so much about the problem , why do they not do anything about it ? it be a little too late for that . it be labour that be bring forward the legislation to deal with this issue . I be proud to support this Bill , with its provision for criminal liability and ban bonus . the amendment the Minister have outline today , in particular to improve transparency , give industry certainty and speed up the implementation of these measure , be so important . I end by say that my constituent will welcome the action take by the Labour Government . we owe it to they and to the next generation to leave this country with sea , river and an environment that be protect and thriving . I welcome the Bill . while its provision be modest , I none the less welcome this step to improve on the failure of previous conservative Governments on sewage pollution . for too long , water company have be allow to operate without proper regulation and oversight . since privatisation , english water company have pay out £ 83 billion in dividend while amass £ 74 billion in debt . shockingly , with the Bill still make its way through the House , water company have brazenly say that they plan to circumvent the ban on bonus by jack up c - suite salary to compensate . the Bill must do more and be more ambitious to truly hold water company to account . I be therefore pleased to support the new clause in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , which would strengthen the Bill , improve monitoring , protect consumer and ensure responsibility fall on sewerage company to clean up their act . I will speak to amendment 9 and new clause 11 and 21 . amendment 9 would ensure that creditor , not bill payer , pay for the bail - out of water company in special measure . it would protect consumer against the reckless financial mismanagement of Thames Water . ordinary bill payer should not be require to pay for the mistake of a company they have no choice to use and the folly of investor that indulge it . new clause 11 would require sewerage undertaker to install volume flow meter in all their location where overflow occur . campaign organisation in my constituency , include the famous Henley Mermaids , tell I that flow meter would help to inform they when it be safe to go in the water . new clause 21 be also of special importance to my constituency , much of which be in the Chilterns national landscape . it would commit sewerage undertaker to secure and then maintain high ecological status in protect landscape . it would require they to improve outflow from storm overflow in area such as Goring , in my constituency , which lie within the Chilterns national landscape . my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) would very much welcome that , as we both enjoy stand - up paddleboard yoga in Goring in July . the hon . Gentleman paint a beautiful picture . how much do he think it would cost to implement and how much would that cost impact on bill payer ? the measure we propose should be take in the round . all our amendment significantly improve the Bill . new clause 21 would also improve sewage outflow in Henley - on - Thames and the village along the Thames Path national trail . that be desperately need to end the shame of welcome the world to our beautiful town of Henley at the royal regatta , only to subject it to what we put down the toilet . in conclusion , I welcome the Bill and the protection it will deliver to my constituent , but I hope the Government will consider go far very soon . I thank the Minister for all the hard work she and her team have be do on the Bill . it be very important to my constituent . to go back to the very basic , we be talk about something that everybody in North East Derbyshire use every day — water . I believe that everybody in my constituency , and in the whole country , have a right to know that the water in our river and stream be clean , clear and free from pollution . the reason I have to state that now in this House be that we have not have the action we should have have over the past 14 year . that be a huge failure of the previous Government to get action take and complete on this important issue . instead , in 2023 water be pollute over 2 , 000 time in North East Derbyshire — and that be in just one constituency . last week , I meet local resident in Ashover , which be situate on the River Amber , in my constituency . they impress on I their concern about pollution in that very picturesque part of the river . we have have good news , in that Severn Trent Water have improve treatment tank capacity in the area , but my resident be worried that that will not be enough , and indeed that we will not know whether it be enough . they be already concerned that the water they see do not live up to the standard they wish to see . that be why I particularly welcome the fact that the Bill be bring in independent monitoring of water quality . I be afraid I disagree with the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . what I think be important be not that we get carry away with volume , but the impact on water quality . that be what matter most . they be not mutually exclusive , be they ? know the duration of a spill be important , but know what go into it and how much also help to know the impact so we can regulate it . be that not true ? the Bill look at the result — the impact . I do not understand why we need to look at the volume if we be look at the impact . a huge amount have be spend on boss ' bonus : over £ 9 million in 2023 - 24 . to put that into perspective , the average salary in my constituency be just over £ 30 , 000 . if bonus be receive , we expect it to be for work well do and not just as a matter of course for the failing those boss be responsible for . time and time again , we hear from the former Government that the water industry would change . unfortunately , it do not under the previous measure , and that be why I welcome the action to ensure result as soon as possible . the Bill will mean clean river , which be my hope for the River Amber and what my constituent deserve ; well infrastructure ; well protection for those who use our water for leisure activity ; and well protection for the nature in our beautiful constituency . that be why it have my full support . my constituency of Bridgwater have the Rivers Axe , Brue , Parrett and Tone within its boundary , together with countless stream , brook and rhyne . it be therefore of the utmost importance to my constituent that the water quality of our river be maintain and improve . the town of Burnham - on - Sea and Highbridge be a coastal resort , as be the village of Berrow and Brean . it be important for the tourism industry , as well as the local people who enjoy those beach , that we improve the quality of our bathing water , and I therefore welcome the Bill . we be tell that it have four key aim : " to block the payment of bonus to executive who pollute waterway ; to bring criminal charge against persistent law breaker ; to impose automatic and severe fine for wrongdoing ; and to ensure independent monitoring of every " — sewer overflow — " outlet . " I welcome all those aim , build as they do on the work of the last government to improve our water quality . I want to speak in favour of new clause 16 and 19 . new clause 16 , entitle " Establishment of Water Restoration Fund " , establish the principle that fine should go towards environmental improvement rather than to the Treasury . I be somewhat curious as to why the Government would not support that , but perhaps the Minister can explain when she respond to the debate . in November 2024 , Wessex Water , which serve my constituency , be fine £ 500 , 000 for pollute two river , one in Wiltshire and one in Somerset . that money should be use to improve the local environment ; it should not be swallow up by the Treasury . new clause 19 state that when civil penalty be impose , there should be an equivalent reduction in customer bill . that be important , because otherwise the water company that have be fine will simply pass on that fine to the consumer ; the new clause would ensure that there be no penalty for the customer . I be curious , again , to know why the Government would oppose new clause 19 — along with new clause 16 — and I look forward to hear the Minister ' s explanation . I thank the ministerial team for all their hard work in produce the Bill within six month of Labour ' s election in July . be there anything more emblematic of the decline and mismanagement preside over by the last government than the state of our river and water ? it be fascinating to hear from the shadow Minister that the opposition seem suddenly to have realise that this be a big problem than they ever think it be when they be in government . as we have hear from member on both side of the House , waterway throughout the country have be choke with record level of sewage . in 2003 , 39 site in my constituency be pollute by Severn Trent Water and United Utilities . across those site , there be 2 , 579 sewage dump — and what be the punishment for the boss of those company ? do any of they face imprisonment ? be their bonus curtail , or stop entirely ? do they feel the hard edge of enforcement action ? the answer be no . if the hon . Gentleman , as a Back - Bench MP , be presume to tell a regulator with criminal power how to investigate and prosecute company or indeed any defendant , we need to be very careful , because never before in our law have we permit Members of Parliament and Ministers to direct independent investigator on whom to investigate and prosecute . I welcome that intervention from the shadow Secretary of State , but let I suggest that if the measure in this Bill have be implement by her government , we might have see some of those enforcement action . I thank the hon . Gentleman for give way ; he be very kind . I remind he that in 2002 a Labour Government allow , through their regulatory regime , the uplift in bonus that he outline . can he tell the House how much sewage dumping happen in his constituency between the year 1997 and 2010 , and can he justify why only 7 % of river be be monitor ? he will not be able to , because we do not know . I welcome the hon . member ' s intervention . I simply say to he that his party be in power for 14 year and do nothing . to go back 30 year seem rather extraordinary . in 2002 , the United Utilities chief executive receive a bonus of nearly £ 1 million , and Severn Trent lift its bonus to £ 3 . 36 million . that be million of pound that my constituent in High Peak have put in boss ' back pocket to reward their failure . when I speak to resident on the doorstep in High Peak , they ask I , " how do they get away with it ? how can they be allow to do this ? " they get away with it because conservative Members let they . the previous Conservative Government cut the Environment Agency ' s budget by half between 2010 and 2024 , leave the agency toothless to tackle the disgraceful behaviour of our water company boss . perhaps that help we to understand the enforcement issue we have be talk about . I also remember that just before the election , the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , in his previous role as Water Minister , tell Environment Agency official not to publish the headline figure of the total number and duration of spill . how typical of the conservative party ' s approach — rather than face issue head - on and tackle they , it choose to hide they and keep they in the shadow . that approach to government have leave our water infrastructure crumbling . by fail to confront these issue , fail to invest in our break infrastructure and let consumer money be spend irresponsibly , the Conservative Government leave my constituent in High Peak pay twice . these point underpin the importance of this legislation . this Bill , couple with the Government ' s wide programme to safeguard the environment , will ensure that the beauty of the Peak district in my constituency , with our nature - rich river , be entrench for generation to come . the Bill introduce tough penalty , include imprisonment for water executive who fail to comply with or obstruct investigation . the Bill will ban bonus for ceo and senior leader unless high standard be meet on protect the environment and their consumer . the Bill will also introduce severe and automatic fine for offence , close the gap in the Environment Agency ' s enforcement power . importantly , the water company will have to start cover the cost of enforcement action . unlike the previous Government , we will not let the water company hide from their wrongdoing . the Bill will see that every outlet have independent monitoring . I be proud to support this major step forward in the Government ' s wide reform to fix the broken water system leave behind by the conservative party . this be a great first step , and a commission will look at the whole water industry , which will hopefully address some of the concern raise by member . only by take these action with this ambitious plan , which the Government have do in their first six month in office , can we begin to turn the page on year of decline and attract much - need investment into the sector , which will preserve the beauty of High Peak and the Peak district for the long term . rise — order . unfortunately , colleague make intervention have eat into time , so I now have to call the Front Benchers . I call the shadow Minister , Dr Neil Hudson . it have be a wide - range debate , although shorter than we have hope for . I thank member for participate today . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) for her passion for enhance the accountability of water company and protect watersport , which we be all passionate about , and my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) for passionately advocate for the water restoration fund . new clause 16 would establish the water restoration fund , to ringfence money from fine to restore local waterway , not to balance the Treasury ' s book . this be a conservative fund , and the Labour Government must not let ideology stand in the way of evidence - base policymaking . they must take the baton forward and ringfence this money , so that waterway can be restore locally . will the hon . member give way ? no , I have no time . new clause 19 be design to ensure that fine on water company result in equivalent reduction in customer ’ bill . that be only fair , and we urge the Government to take forward the new clause . new clause 17 seek to strengthen the financial resilience of water company by enable the Secretary of State to stipulate the limit of borrowing , so that these company do not leverage too much debt . that be an important new clause that need to go forward . through amendment 26 and 27 , we want to protect customer in different part of the country so that they do not have to pay for the misdemeanour of water company that do not serve they . we urge the Government to take forward our amendment and make this Bill strong , so that we can improve our precious waterway . I thank member for their constructive engagement throughout this debate . as I have say before , it be wonderful to hear the share passion across this House for improve the performance of the water sector so that it well deliver for customer and the environment . give the limited time that I have to address over 50 amendment — I be not look in any one direction — the Minister make reference to the very limited time . why be that ? this be a Government who hold general debate on Mondays and Thursdays . they have no business , yet we have less than two hour to debate this really important issue . the hon . Member and I serve on the Public Bill Committee , where we spend much time discuss many of the amendment . I can not comment on decision about the business of the House and urgent question . as I say , I will do my absolute good to cover all the point raise by hon . member . I hope they accept that I generally try to be generous with intervention , but I want to put on the record my response to the amendment . I hope the House will give forgive I . a number of hon . member have table amendment that seek to increase transparency around water company operation and pollution incident . the Government absolutely agree that great transparency be need to well enable the regulator and the public to hold water company accountable . although I have previously explain why it be not practical to prohibit all discharge from emergency overflow , which be a necessary safety valve in our sewage system , I reiterate this Government ' s commitment to reduce the harm cause by sewage discharge . ensure that all emergency overflow be monitor be a critical step in enable the outcome that we all want to see . information on the frequency and duration of discharge will help to direct investment to far reduce sewage discharge into our waterway , and to well enable the public to make informed decision about access their local waterway . will the Minister give way ? I will , but I have only 10 minute . I thank the Minister for be so generous with her time . as she will be aware , the United Kingdom have most of the world ' s chalk stream , and the River Chess run through my constituency . how can she ensure that we continue to monitor our unique environment and protect it from the threat of overflow , to which she just refer ? I share the hon . Gentleman ' s passion and love for chalk stream — the rainforest of the United Kingdom . part of this Bill will drive the performance change in the industry that we want to see and reduce sewage discharge , which be do such damage to such precious habitat . although some member have call for the Government to go even far on monitoring , I reassure the House that we have carefully consider how good to increase transparency without drive unmanageable increase in customer ’ bill . as promise in Committee , I have provide a factsheet on this issue , and I can make it available in the House of Commons Library . roll out event duration monitor over two price review period will provide the good value for money for customer and the environment , and do not risk compromise water company ' ability to deliver other vital improvement to our sewage system . it be important that we direct investment at improve the sewage network to decrease overflow charge , and not just at monitoring , particularly where it do not provide valuable insight into the harm associate with discharge . there be a balance to be strike , and I believe we have get it right . the public know that there be too much sewage in our waterway . whichever way we look at it — be it through volume or duration — they know there be too much . the focus must be on reduce it . my hon . friend talk about the importance of water quality . will she join I in commending campaign such as the Ilkley Clean River Group and other citizen scientist across the country ? in the absence of datum collect under the Conservatives and the work of the Environment Agency , they have to do the work themselves to expose the sewage scandal . I wholeheartedly pay tribute to the Ilkley Clean River Group and to the work that my hon . friend do in champion it in this House . I remind my hon . friend how much this matter to my constituent in East Thanet . we be surround on three side by the sea , yet we manage to clean up our water . however , I be strike by the fact that the reform manifesto do not contain one word about water pollution or safety . I also want to point out the emptiness of the Opposition Benches in this debate . that should be put on the record . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I would have think that this would be an important issue for all political party . resident in Grosmont in my constituency have have a van park in the street process raw sewage , with a pipe leave open in the street , for month between the processing of the sewage and the hold tank be empty . do my hon . friend agree that disgusting incident such as these illustrate our crumble water infrastructure and the importance of the Bill , which will ringfence funding for vital infrastructure ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . what she be witness in the street of her constituency be a perfect example of the crumble infrastructure that we have inherit . rise — let I try to get through my remark . if it become feasible in future for company to install monitor more quickly , they will be encourage to do so . in addition to reporting requirement for emergency overflow , other measure in this Bill will ensure that water company have robust plan to reduce pollution incident and empower the regulator to punish wrongdoing effectively . this include requirement to produce pollution incident reduction plan and implementation report , as set out in clause 2 of the Bill , and requirement for water company to consider the use of nature - base solution in the production of their drainage and wastewater management plan , as set out in clause 4 . the transparency provide by these measure will drive a culture change ensure that water company have the right incentive to reduce discharge of sewage into our precious river , lake and sea . let I be clear that the Bill also provide comprehensive power for Ofwat to enforce the requirement introduce by the Bill to increase transparency , include through use of significant fine . I can reassure the House that where discharge be find to have breach permit condition , the regulator will not hesitate to take action . in relation to new clause 14 , I also make it clear that Ofwat have a duty to secure that company be able to finance the delivery of their statutory obligation , include meet pollution target . the Government be commit to act as fast as possible to reduce sewage pollution in our waterway , and already have stretch pollution target in place , inform by detailed analysis and extensive engagement . these target will drive £ 60 billion of investment between 2025 and 2050 , and almost £ 12 billion of that investment will begin this year , improve 2 , 800 storm overflow by 2030 . I hope this reassure the House that , where water company do not comply with requirement around pollution incident and the reporting of those pollution incident , the regulator will not hesitate to take action . the water restoration fund be create by the previous Government , yet not one penny of the £ 11 million levy on water company between 2022 and 2023 reach any restoration of the waterway . do the Minister agree that our precious chalk stream could be help by the water restoration fund be continue ? as I have mention , I be a huge fan of our chalk stream . the hon . member be right to point out that the much - laud water restoration fund that some member be so keen to talk about be establish in November 2022 , yet 18 month later the grand total of the number of project support by it be zero . a number of hon . member have also put forward suggestion to improve information and datum share more broadly . the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) have put her name to some of these amendment . although the government do not think it necessary to bring forward legislation in this space , we be actively consider way of make datum more accessible to the public through non - legislative mean . this include information on water company ' performance and datum on local sewer network in map form , which must be make available free of charge under the Water Industry Act 1991 . will the Minister give way ? this be go to be my last one . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . her comment on this point will be welcome by many of our local resident . will she provide further information about the great power for Ofwat ? this Bill will , of course , empower Ofwat to take necessary action where it find wrongdoing , include through change to remuneration under clause 1 . I know my hon . friend care a lot about this . rise — I be sorry , but I will have to stop take intervention if I be to respond to all the amendment . Water UK have publish a centralised map on its website of discharge datum from all storm overflow operate by english water company . I genuinely find it clear and useful , so I encourage all hon . member to have a look . I have hear call from across the House for reform the planning framework , the regulator and the incentive that govern the water industry model . although I understand and , believe I , fully share hon . member ' frustration with the performance across the water sector , the fundamental issue face the water industry and the regulatory framework in which it operate can no long be address in a piecemeal way . I have speak at great length throughout the Bill ' s passage about the independent commission lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe , which will make recommendation to fundamentally transform how our water system work . the broad - range commission be bring together a wide range of expertise to make recommendation in line with eight objective to deliver the necessary reset to ensure a resilient , innovative and sustainable water sector in England and Wales . it will report to the Government by summer 2025 . this include specific objective to review the role , structure , duty and power of the regulator , the planning framework — include the price review process — and the resilience of water company . that include financial resilience , which I know matter to many hon . member . point have be raise about take water company into public ownership , and the Government have repeatedly make it clear that we do not consider nationalisation to be within the commission ' s scope . nationalisation would cost over £ 90 billion , and it would take year to unpick the current ownership model , at the expense of deliver and address more immediate public priority . however , the commission will consider alternative water industry model within its scope . I take this opportunity to invite all hon . member to put forward their view to the commission through the upcoming call for evidence , which will be launch soon . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . I suspect that the Government do not agree with our water restoration fund , but if the Cunliffe review say that the water restoration fund should be reinstate , will the Minister commit to do so ? despite our political difference , the hon . Gentleman and I have a very interesting and — what be the right word ? — comradely debate in Committee . as we explain in Committee , conversation on the water restoration fund be still ongoing . I honestly do not believe that primary legislation be need , which Conservative Front Benchers know , as they establish the fund without primary legislation . I gently point out , as I have already mention , that within the 18 month of its establishment under the previous Government , the fund do absolutely nothing . will the Minister give way ? I have two minute remain , so I have to skip through as much as I can , as I know member will want I to answer question , particularly on the SAR . some hon . member have express concern about the rule on performance - relate pay and consumer representation . although the Government agree it be crucial that consumer ’ voice be hear and consider in water company decision making , we have already take action on this . it be not necessary to require environmental expert to be place on company board because , follow the agreement make with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs in his first week in office , nine of the 16 company have update their article of association to include a social and environmental commitment . DEFRA be work with all of they to ensure they do the rest as soon as possible . I agree with the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) about the representation of environmental non - governmental organisation on company board . member of water company board be subject to a number of duty under the Companies Act 2006 , include a duty to promote the success of that company . a director ' s fiduciary duty may conflict with the organisational objective of the environmental group in question , thus prevent their objective participation in board membership . we can not have a situation in which an environmentalist on a water company board be not comfortable with their duty to promote the success of that company . I produce a factsheet detail how the SAR be use to ensure the continue provision of vital public service . however , I remind the House of the fact . I be be very clear : the shortfall recovery power can only be use to recover shortfall in repay Government funding . for the last time , I hope , it can not and would never be use to recover financial creditor or shareholder loss relate to investment in the company . if the amendment be accept as propose , it would involve a radical change to insolvency policy , which have be a long - establish practice since 1986 . question put and agree to . new clause 18 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 16 December 2024 ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 16 - Establishment of Water Restoration Fund " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 60 day of the passing of this Act , make provision for the establishment , operation and management of a Water Restoration Fund . ( 2 ) a Water Restoration Fund be a fund — ( a ) into which any monetary penalty impose on water company for specified offence must be pay , and ( b ) out of which payment must be make for expenditure on measure — ( i ) to help water body , include chalk stream , achieve good ecological status , and improve ecological potential and chemical status ; ( ii ) to prevent further deterioration of the ecological status , ecological potential or chemical status of water body , include chalk stream ; ( iii ) to enable water - dependent habitat to return to , or remain at , favourable condition ; ( iv ) to restore other water - dependent habitat and specie , especially where action support restoration of associate protect site or water body . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , by regulation , list the specify offence for the purpose of this section , which must include — ( a ) any relevant provision of the Water Resources Act 1991 , include — ( i ) section 24 ( 4 ) ( unlicensed abstraction or related work or contravene abstraction licence ) ; ( ii ) section 25 ( 2 ) ( unlicensed impound work or contravene impound licence ) ; ( iii ) section 25c ( 1 ) ( contravene abstraction or impound enforcement notice ) ; ( iv ) section 80 ( contravene drought order or permit ) ; ( v ) section 201 ( 3 ) ( contravene water resource information notice ) ; ( b ) any relevant regulation under section 2 of the Pollution Prevention and Control Act 1999 ( regulation of pollute activity etc ) relate to water pollution ; ( c ) regulation under section 61 of the Water Act 2014 ( regulation of water resource etc ) . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 5 ) the provision in this section replace any exist provision for the sum receive for specified offence , include in section 22a ( 9 ) of the Water Industry Act 1991 ( penalty ) . " — ( Victoria Atkins . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Claire Young Paul Holmes Gregory Stafford Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 181 , Noes 322 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 19 - civil penalty : equivalent reduction to customer bill " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make provision for any monetary penalty impose on a water company to result in equivalent reduction to the amount charge to customer by the relevant water company . ( 2 ) in fulfil its duty under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must arrange , annually — ( a ) for the total amount of monetary penalty impose on a water company in the previous year to be calculate ; ( b ) for that total to be divide by the number of customer of the water company ; ( c ) for each customer ' s next bill from the water company to be reduce by that figure . ( 3 ) any reduction apply under this section must be indicate on a customer ' s statement of account . ( 4 ) in this section , ' water company ' have the meaning give by section 6 ( 5 ) . " — ( Victoria Atkins . ) this new clause would provide for any fine impose on water company to result in equivalent reduction to customer ’ bill . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Claire Young Paul Holmes Gregory Stafford Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 180 , Noes 325 . question accordingly negative . clause 10 - change in respect of environment Agency and NRBW function Amendment make : 4 , page 14 , leave out line 35 and 36 and insert — " ( a ) section 205A and 205b of the Water Industry Act 1991 ( pollution incident reduction plan and implementation report ) , " . — ( Emma Hardy . ) this amendment update clause 10 to reflect amendment make to clause 2 in the Lords . clause 12 - Modification by Secretary of State of water company ' s appointment condition etc to recover loss Amendment propose : 9 , page 15 , line 34 , leave out from " to " to " such " in line 36 and insert " recover from its creditor " . — ( Tim Farron . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Steve Darling Edward Davey Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Alex Easton Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Brian Mathew Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Susan Murray Sarah Olney Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Claire Young Tessa Munt Bobby Dean Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Anna McMorrin Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 73 , Noes 321 . question accordingly negative . clause 15 - extent , commencement , transitional provision and short title Amendments make : 5 , page 21 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) section 1 ( rule about remuneration and governance ) ; " . this amendment bring clause 1 into force on Royal Assent . amendment 6 , page 21 , line 16 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 5 . amendment 7 , page 21 , line 30 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 5 . amendment 8 , page 22 , line 1 , at end insert — " ( aa ) section ( special provision in charge scheme ) ; " . — ( Emma Hardy . ) this amendment bring NC18 into force two month after Royal Assent . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . our river , lake and sea be awash with pollution . the legacy of 14 year of conservative failure be the high level of sewage spill on record , economic growth hold back by a lack of water supply and , now , painful bill rise to fix the problem that they leave behind . the british public be rightly angry about the state of our waterway . it have be leave to this Government to clean up the mess once and for all . the water sector need a complete reset , reform that put customer and the environment first , and a new partnership with the Government to invest for the future and upgrade our broken infrastructure . this Government have a three - stage plan to make that happen . during my first week in post , I meet water company chief executive and announce immediate step to improve the performance of the water industry , include ringfence money for investment in water infrastructure so that it can never again be divert to bonus or dividend , and ensure that customer who face frequent water outage or contaminate tap water receive more generous and fast compensation . this evening , I be delighted to open the Third Reading debate on the Bill . its core provision will strengthen the power of the regulator so that they can well hold water company to account for poor performance . it will give Ofwat new power to ban undeserved bonus when water company executive fail to meet the high standard the public rightly demand . it will introduce strict penalty , include imprisonment where senior executive of water company obstruct investigation by environmental regulator , and include provision for automatic and severe fine for wrongdoing . we have also extend power so that environmental regulator can recover cost for a wide range of future enforcement measure — the polluter , not the public , will pay . we have also introduce mandatory monitoring of emergency overflow and pollution incident so the public can hold company to account . the Bill have be strengthen and improve in its passage through both Houses . I be thankful to all hon . member , and all noble Lords in the other place , for their thorough consideration and scrutiny of the Bill , and for the many and varied amendment that have be table and debate . water company will now be require to include water supply as well as sewage - relate incident in pollution incident reduction plan , and we have create personal liability for chief executive so that there be accountability for these plan at the very high level . water company will also need to produce an implementation report alongside their annual plan so the public can see what action they be take to reduce pollution incident . we have introduce two clause to consider more nature - base solution such as reed bed and wetland in drainage and wastewater management plan , and for Ofwat to track progress against our environmental target . a further clause will ensure that measure be in place to support vulnerable customer , as set out by the water Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , early this evening . will the Secretary join I in commend the citizen scientist and local campaign group that have drive many of these issue right up the political agenda , include the friend of the River Exe in Exeter ? I be delighted that this Government have act so quickly to hold the water company to account for the sewage crisis . do he agree both that this be long overdue , and that it will fundamentally change the way our river be treat ? I echo my hon . friend ' s commendation for the citizen scientist and the work they have do to highlight the scale of the problem . the support for the Bill across the House and among the public demonstrate our collective desire to clean up our river , lake and sea . I be proud of the progress we have make through the Bill , but it be not the extent of our ambition . in October , I announce the big review of the water sector in a generation . Sir Jon Cunliffe have appoint an expert advisory group with lead voice represent the environment sector , public health , engineering , customer , investor and economist , and be prepare to launch a public call for evidence within week . the Secretary of State talk about Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s water commission , and we be obviously interested in engage with that . do he think , though , that today ' s appointment of a former Thames Water executive to the commission will fill the public with confidence that it will be independent in any way ? of course , it be an independent commission ; it be up to Sir Jon to appoint to the board whom he like . however , it be a very balanced board , and I hope the hon . Gentleman will recognise that voice from many stakeholder group be represent , as indeed they should be . the commission will report to the UK and Welsh Governments this summer , after which both government will respond and consult on Sir Jon ' s recommendation , include on further legislation . the Secretary of State be right that thing be get well . in my constituency , two new investment in water sector upgrade , by Wessex Water and Pennon , be worth a total of £ 230 million . clearly , much more have to be do , but will he join I in welcome those new investment ? do he recognise that such investment be not consistent across the country , which be exactly why we need the Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and I welcome those investment . from visit he in his constituency , I know what a champion he be for clean up the water and the beach in Bournemouth . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice and the noble Lady , Baroness Hayman of Ullock for their expert leadership of the Bill through Parliament , and member of staff in the Bill team and in DEFRA for their hard work and professionalism . I thank member on all side who participate in the debate at all stage . I extend my thank to our colleague in the Welsh Government and the Senedd for work collaboratively with the UK Government on the Bill . I be delighted that , at the Welsh Government ' s own request , the benefit bring about by the Bill will extend to Wales . consumer listen to this debate have be concern about the role of Ofwat . what reassurance can the Secretary of State give they that Ofwat , the regulator , will put consumer ’ interest and environmental interest before corporation ' interest ? Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s commission will be review precisely those point , and I hope the hon . Gentleman will take the opportunity to contribute his view when the call for evidence begin in just a few week . the change the Government have make in a short amount of time show that with collective determination and ambition we can turn the water sector around . the failure of the past be end . the future of the water sector be full of promise . our waterway have be poison by unacceptable level of sewage and other pollution for too long . with these change , finally , we will clean up our river , lake and sea for good . I thank everyone who have scrutinise and work on the Bill in both Houses , include the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , our very efficient Whip , my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , and the noble Lord Roborough , who lead very constructive discussion in the other place . it be a shame that the Government reject the amendment put forward today . I thank the Doorkeepers , the hon . member who chair the Committee and everyone who help his Majesty ' s official Opposition to scrutinise the Bill . across the House , we can all agree that there be fundamental problem face the water and sewerage industry . since 2010 , the number of designate bathing water have increase ; we have see a significant improvement in water quality rating , with more water rate as excellent or good ; and an increase in blue flag beach . but of course we want to see more . we be , in fact , the first government in history to set out that storm overflow must be reduce , and our landmark Environment Act 2021 give strong power to regulator and impose strict demand for tackle pollution . we set legally bind target to improve water quality and availability , and to reduce nutrient pollution . we roll out catchment - sensitive farming to all farm in England . we step up the requirement for investment , include investment from water company and storm overflow improvement , and nationally significant infrastructure project such as the Thames tideway tunnel super sewer . when we come into government , just 7 % of storm overflow be monitor . when we leave government , we have increase that to 100 % . we support the Bill , but we do so with some disappointment at its lack of ambition . frankly , as we have say before , much of what the Bill try to do , include monitoring , block bonus and fine , be bring in by the Conservatives in government . we say that the primary legislation be not necessary , but we will of course support the Bill . I be especially disappointed that the Government have decline to accept our amendment . in particular , it be woeful that they have fail to put the water restoration fund into legislation . [ interruption . ] I will deal with the Minister ' s comment in a moment . the public rightly want to see the Government address water quality , but rather water company fine be use to restore water body , that money will be go into the gape hole of the Treasury ' s coffer , presumably in an attempt to undo some of the damage cause by the Chancellor ' s disastrous growth - block , tax - hiking , job - cutting , investment - plummet Budget . now I be go to correct the Minister , and I will do so from the Dispatch Box rather than through a point of order . last summer it emerge that Thames Water , Yorkshire Water and Northumbrian Water would be fine a record £ 160 million between they for a " catalogue of failure " over illegal sewage discharge , subject to consultation . however , in August — when this Government be in power — the Treasury hold back those fine , which be due to go into the water restoration fund to help clean up affected area . the Minister give figure early , but it be her Government ' s fault that money be not pay into that fund . we on the side of the House believe that the polluter should pay for their mistake , rather than their fine pay for pay rise for the Government ' s trade union buddy . [ interruption . ] yes , I be sure that the train driver be very grateful . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will give way , with great interest . I sit on the Public Bill Committee , and I must say that the tone that the right hon . Lady be strike be very different from that of her colleague on the Committee . I just wonder whether she as any regret about her Government ' s record on tackle sewage or pollution . would she acknowledge any regret ? I do love be mansplaine to by Labour Back Benchers . I suppose it be part of the Labour party ' s woman problem . the hon . Gentleman be now throw his thumb up at I — goodness I ! what I will say be that throughout the passage of the Bill , we have say , " we have make some progress , but there be more to do . " that be precisely why we be support the Bill tonight , although we will try to improve it and strengthen it . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will not , because I want to allow other to speak . the Government have also sadly fail to recognise the importance of chalk stream , refuse to confirm the continuation of protection put in place by we Conservatives . I be afraid that warm word about rainforest , much as we agree with they , will not protect these vital habitat . we want to see improved water quality , and I urge the Government to take stock and seek to adopt a more rounded approach that clean up our river and sea , treat bill payer and taxpayer properly , and build on our work to construct the water system of the future . let I say , without go through all the flowery stuff that we do early , that I be grateful to member in all part of the House for what have be a broadly collegiate debate . however , the shadow Secretary of State say something that be worth reflect on . I think she be talk about what I be about to mention , namely the fine of £ 164 million that Ofwat have indeed propose should be levy against the very three water company to which she refer . for what it be worth — and I be not here to defend the Treasury — this be not a Treasury decision at all . it be because of Ofwat ' s weakness , and a culture of timidity that be evident when it come to gather money from the water company , that the money be not collect . that information be 100 % correct , because it be give to I in response to one of my Freedom of Information Act request . in any event , the key feature be my disappointment in the Bill . I will certainly support it should it come to a vote , and I support it anyway , but its weakness lie in the fact that it be not radical enough . it do not go far enough , and it do not tackle the weakness in regulation to which , in a roundabout , accidental way , the Secretary of State have refer . we will engage with the Cunliffe water review and recognise it as independent . my reflection be simply this . the Labour party have be in opposition for a long time . they be a well - fund Opposition through short money — we could only dream of such thing — and surely have the capability to come up with a set of plan that mean they could get on with it straightaway , rather than kick it to halfway into the Parliament . this be an unambitious Bill , but it be good enough , and it will have our support . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass , with amendment . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I need some assistance in understand how the House can express its displeasure at the Government ' s manipulation of the business of the House to stop proper consideration of this Bill . water be at the heart of the last general election — it be really important to our constituent — and yet the Bill ' s Report stage be limit to less than one and a half hour , and not a single Back Bencher have be able to contribute on Third Reading . be there a way that we can express our disapprobation of the Government put forward two non - urgent statement today on Gaza and on Sudan and the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo — both of they important in their own right but , I suspect , design to eat up time ? I thank the hon . member for his prior notice . while that be not a matter for the Chair , his comment be now on the record . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I gently refute what the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) just say ? two important statement be make today . it be for the Chair to decide on urgent question , of which there be two today , with both run for a considerable time . it be not the Government ' s intention at all for this debate , which be on a matter of great importance to many people across the House , to be curtail . I will certainly take on board what he say , and there will potentially be further opportunity with the Bill . [ interruption . ] there will be statement tomorrow , and there be statement early this week ; there be lot of important matter . we take great care to ensure that important government announcement be make to the House through oral statement , and we be criticise when we do not do that . business without Debate Speaker ' s Absence Ordered , that the Speaker have leave of absence on Thursday 30 January to attend the funeral of the right honourable the Lord Prescott , formerly Member for Kingston upon Hull East . — ( Lucy Powell . ) delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy that the draft Heat Networks ( Market Framework ) ( Great Britain ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 28 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Climate Change that the draft Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme ( Amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 3 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Airports Slot Allocation ( Alleviation of Usage Requirements etc . ) regulation 2025 , which be lay before this House on 4 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Petition - Family farm tax the removal of agricultural property relief and business property relief on inheritance tax on farm will have a devastating impact on family farm across this country . in Northern Ireland , the family structure of our farm , their size compare with elsewhere in the United Kingdom , the significant price of land and the disparity between the statistic from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs of Northern Ireland on the number of Northern Ireland farm that will be impact by this change be why the Ulster Farmers ' Union petition oppose the removal gather more than 15 , 000 signature . I urge the Government to take note of this petition and ask the Chancellor to meet the farming union . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government take immediate action to stop the removal of the Agricultural Property Relief and Business Property Relief on inheritance tax on farm . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Northern Ireland , declare that the government should uphold the Agricultural Property Relief and Business Property Relief on inheritance tax on farm ; note the petition by the Ulster Farmers ' Union on this topic with over 15 , 000 signature ; and far note the disparity between the defra and daera statistic on the number of Northern Ireland farm impact by this change . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government take immediate action to stop the removal of the Agricultural Property Relief and Business Property Relief on inheritance tax on farm . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003037 ] Unionised Workers in the Housing sector : Pay Discrimination Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant this debate . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a member of Unite the Union . I have spend my life in the trade union movement , so it be no surprise that my first Adjournment debate focus on the principle of collective bargaining . a dispute in my constituency appear to expose a gap in the legislation , whereby an employer can offer pay increase exclusively to non - unionised worker — an unacceptable practice that can be exploit by employer not just in Knowsley , but across the country . Livv Housing , the large housing association in my constituency , manage 13 , 000 home across Liverpool and the north - west . in March 2024 , Livv report reserve of £ 110 . 6 million . over the past five year , it have record annual surplus range from £ 14 million to £ 25 million , yet the worker who keep Livv run have face year of real - term pay cut . pay have fall by over 30 % in real term since 2011 . it be no wonder that Unite and Unison member have be take industrial action since October last year . Livv have refuse to engage in meaningful discussion with the union , but it have also declare the negotiation exhaust . the stonewalling have prolong the dispute , and it be evident from my inbox that it be have an impact on my constituent who depend on Livv ' s service . the casework load involve Livv be mount up , and it be have a bad effect on people ' s life . nothing be get fix , because its management will not sit down and settle the dispute . in December , Livv write to all staff to say that they could have a 5 % pay rise if they reply in writing to confirm that they be not a member of a trade union . the email say : " if you be a non - union member and would like to accept the pay award offer of 5 % , please can you send confirmation of your acceptance and confirm that you be a non - union member . a one - line email to confirm you wish to receive the pay award and that you be not a union member will be enough . " this practice be completely contrary to the spirit of the Employment Relations Act 2004 , which seek to protect worker ’ collective voice and to stop inducement and similar practice . however , some employer keep try to find a way around the protection , and we have to put a stop to it . I have personally write to the chief executive officer of Livv on multiple occasion , urge the housing association to engage constructively with the union and to seek a fair resolution , but L é ann Hearne have go as far as to inform I that she will no long engage with I in writing . I have write to Livv and ask it to bring an end to the dispute , as have Mayor Steve Rotheram , and Knowsley council have pass a motion that ask it to get around the table and solve the dispute with the union . this be all that any of we want , especially the worker currently in dispute . instead of do that , Livv have focus its effort on undermine collective bargaining . we all know that worker get the good deal when they collectively bargain for pay and condition . the strength of worker stand together be the only thing that can balance the power of an employer , which be why bad employer have do everything they can over the year to undermine the ability of worker to collectively bargain . some member of the House will remember the 2021 case of Kostal UK Ltd v . Dunkley , in which the employer try to undermine the collective voice of Unite worker . before talk have be exhaust , Kostal make a direct offer to the workforce and inform staff that they would not receive their Christmas bonus if they do not accept it by a deadline . do that sound familiar ? like Livv , Kostal think it have find a loophole in the law , but that be unanimously reject by the Supreme Court . in its ruling , Lord Leggatt say : " such conduct deny the union its seat at the table and do not allow the union ' s voice to be hear . " today , Livv Housing be do just that . what this behaviour do be create a two - tier workforce , pit colleague against each other . imagine go into a workplace with a culture like that . if some employer can get away with this , you can bet that other employer will follow . it be Winston Churchill who say : " the trade union be a long - establish and essential part of our national life . we take our stand by these pillar of our british society as it have gradually develop and evolve itself , of the right of individual labour man to adjust their wage and condition by collective bargaining , include the right to strike . " I understand that the Minister can not comment on individual dispute , but this be clearly something that can be exploit by employer across the country . the Employment Rights Bill provide a clear opportunity to close this loophole that we think be close so long ago , so I ask the Minister to commit to look at amend the Bill to stop employer seek to undermine collective bargaining by offer non - union member preferential treatment in pay award , and to update I on those plan . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) for secure this debate and for her excellent speech . she have a long and proud record in the trade union movement , which she have bring to the fore today . I want to start by set out the Government ' s approach to the important subject of industrial relation . we want employer and trade union to come together to grow our economy . we know that the world of work be fair and more productive when people can come together to negotiate fair pay and decent condition . that be why we be reset industrial relation through the Employment Rights Bill . we be repeal nearly every part of the Trade Union Act 2016 , which try to smother trade union in form - fill and red tape and prevent they from do their core job of negotiation and dispute resolution . I commend the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) for bring forward this debate . I speak to she beforehand , and I understand what she be try to do . she have clearly outline the case for the union in her contribution tonight . when I start work for Henry Denny ' s in Belfast in my early 20 , they ask I if I want to join the union . to be honest , I be not sure , but the guy tell I it be compulsory , so I say , " that ' s okay . " but here ' s the story . I have the union on my side when I first start work at Henry Denny ' s ; I have it to back I up whenever I need something . I have have a different opinion about what union be and what they could do for I . the hon . Lady have outline what the union can do , I understand personally what they can do , and I look forward to hear the Minister tell we what he be go to do . I be grateful to the hon . member for his support for union . I be a little worried when the debate start because he be not in his normal place . I think there be go to be some sort of national emergency because the hon . member for Strangford have not attend the Adjournment debate , but I be glad he be here and that he have speak very positively about the benefit of join a trade union . I shall go back to some of the work we be do to improve the industrial relation landscape . we be of course repeal the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 , which , to our mind , only increase tension and fail to prevent a single day of industrial action . we be go far in strengthen the voice of work people by make it easy for trade union to get recognise , give they the right of access to workplace and make sure that they have enough time to represent their member . when the right of work people be flout , our new fair work agency will be empower to investigate . we have recently run a consultation on modernise trade union law so that they be fit for the modern workplace and the modern economy . that consultation close on 2 December and we be currently analyse response . we will publish a Government response to the consultation before Report stage of the Employment Rights Bill . this be a transformative package that mark a new era for work people and I hope that hon . member be in no doubt about the Government ' s commitment to mark this new way forward . it be a way that bring a new deal for work people , make job more secure and family friendly , ban exploitative zero - hour contract , support woman in work at every stage in their life , and provide a genuine living wage and sick pay for the low earner . there will be further and fast action to close the gender pay gap , to ensure that right be enforce and that trade union be strengthen , to repeal anti - worker , anti - union law , to turn the page on industrial relation and to end fire and rehire , while also give work people the basic right that they deserve at work from day one . this be a pro - business , pro - worker , pro - growth Bill from a pro - business , pro - worker , pro - growth Government . as we know , a range of protection exist for worker against inducement and detriment relate to trade union membership or activity . of those , I will mention three that may be relevant to this particular situation . section 146 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 protect worker against detriment be impose by an employer for the sole or main purpose of prevent or deter the worker from be a trade union member or take part in union activity , or penalise they for do so . through clause 63 of the Employment Rights Bill , we be enhance protection against detriment by confer a right on worker not to be subject to detriment " for the sole or main purpose of prevent or deter the worker from take protect industrial action , or penalise the worker for do so . " section 145a of the 1992 Act protect worker against offer make by the employer for the sole or main purpose of induce the worker not to be a trade union member or not to take part in union activity . finally , section 145B of the 1992 Act protect member of trade union that be recognise , or be seek to be recognise , by their employer against offer make by the employer for the sole or main purpose of result in worker ' term and condition not be determine by a collective agreement negotiate by the union . as my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley indicate , we can not comment on the extent to which exist legislation apply to a particular case , as that be ultimately a matter for tribunal and court to determine . however , I hope it have be helpful to state clearly some of the exist protection that may be relevant . it be also worth put it on record that this Government expect employer to work in partnership with union to resolve dispute through negotiation . we certainly do not believe that pay offer should be frame in a way that require an individual to confirm that they be not a member of a trade union . at the very least , as my hon . Friend say , that go against the spirit of good industrial relation . I recognise that dispute be sometimes difficult to resolve , and I take this opportunity to highlight the important role that ACAS play in this space . its remit be to promote good employment relation , to advise employer and employee on workplace matter , and to resolve individual and collective workplace dispute . employee and employer in a workplace dispute may wish to contact acas to get advice on employment law and workplace relation , and to help resolve their dispute . of course , resolve dispute through ACAS require both party to participate , and it be disappointing to hear from my hon . friend that not only will Livv not engage with she on this matter , but it do not appear that it will engage with the trade union either . I hope Livv reconsider because , through our " make work pay " agenda , we have be clear that it be our intention to ensure that workplace right be fit for a modern economy , empower work people and deliver economic growth . that be why we have introduce the Employment Rights Bill , which represent the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . we will always listen carefully to any argument on how the law on inducement or detriment could be improve , and we always welcome view on how we can reset industrial relation to create a modern framework that be fit for a modern economy and modern working practice . I would welcome the opportunity to hear more information from my hon . friend about the specific of this issue , and I urge Livv to engage with she and the trade union . I be open to look at the case in more detail to understand what action , if any , be necessary , and I be always happy to work with my hon . friend to ensure that trade union right be properly observe in this country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .