I welcome my hon . friend to her place . she and I be involve in Young Labour together — only a few year ago , I feel — so it be great to see she finally in this place where she belong . she raise the important matter of NHS dentistry and the difficulty that people have get an NHS appointment , which be particularly acute in Norfolk . that be why the Government be commit to a rescue plan and to provide another 700 , 000 nhs dentist appointment , which I hope will relieve that acuteness in Norfolk . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your election and welcome you to the Chair , although it feel a bit weird to welcome anyone here , give that I have be here for about two minute . I follow on from the excellent contribution make by my hon . friend the member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , and for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) among other . I praise in particular my hon . friend for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh , both because he give an excellent speech and because his mum be one of my constituent . as I start this new job , I have be think a lot about my family ; I be do so while prepare my remark today . I be think in particular of my grandpa , who be a coalminer in the coalfield of Lanarkshire , just outside Glasgow . when I be a wee boy , he would tell I of the condition that he work in : " darkness , " he say , " so black that you could hold your hand right in front of your eye and still not be able to see it . " in that darkness , he would toil away , unable to imagine his own future , let alone that of his grandwean , as he would say . all the while he toil , he be inhale fume so toxic that later in life he would have lung cancer , and live the rest of his life with just one lung . my dad , a welder , be here today — off during the Glasgow fair — along with my mum , who run her own business , to watch I from the Gallery . my career so far have be very different from that of my parent and grandparent . for a start , they have a proper job , whereas I be now do this for a living , but it have be different for two relate reason . the first be the Labour party — both in the sense that it have help to provide I with a new job , and in the protection that it have deliver for work people . health and safety legislation , deliver by Labour and build by the trade union movement , have end the kind of condition that my grandparent work in . the second reason my career have be different be technology . I suspect that today in Britain there be more bitcoin miner than coalminer , and that be ultimately a good thing . Coalmining be difficult , hard , laborious work . as a kid I spend many long hour in front of my computer and , while much of that be spend play FIFA against my wee brother Mark , some of it be more productive , because I teach myself to code . I watch YouTube video and over week , month and year I learn how to build software . I develop iPhone app that be use around the world , mean that code write on my laptop in Glasgow could be push out to device around the world in second and that this 19 - year - old kid in his childhood bedroom could run an app servicing people from Los Angeles to Dubai . if it can do that , technology can reform our public service too . technology might even help to reform this House , as we be debate today . I hope and know that high - growth , innovative business in my home city of Glasgow will be a key part of that . much have be say and write about Glasgow over the year , but one thing stick with I in particular . Anthony Bourdain be not a man know for his parliamentary language , so let we just say that he describe Glasgow as the most unpretentious place on earth — an " antidote " to the world , in his word , " so unapologetically work class and attitude - free " . I think he be right because , of all the thing I love about Glasgow , it be our people and our humour that I enjoy most . if someone ever get a wee bit too big for their boot , return home to Glasgow will soon put an end to that — something I be sure will be increasingly useful the long I spend in this place . unlike many Glaswegians , my admiration even extend to some of Glasgow ' s politician . it be customary in speech such as this to praise our predecessor , but I know that for some that will be do through slightly gritted tooth at the end of a long and bitter - fought election campaign . in my case , I talk about my predecessor with genuine warmth and admiration . Stewart McDonald serve the people of Glasgow South diligently and build an enviable reputation in this place . he be particularly respect for his long - stand support for the people of Ukraine , something that see he award the ukrainian order of merit . if I leave this place have do half as much as he do for people around the world fight for democracy , I will leave a happy man . before Stewart , there be labour predecessor . there be Tom Harris , who have be personally kind to I ; John Maxton , now Lord Maxton , whose son teach I modern study in high school , believe it or not — although I will leave it up to other to decide whether he do a good or bad job of that — and of course Teddy Taylor , who be still remember fondly by many of my constituent . I would also like to mention two other member of this House who have a big impact on my life , both from Glasgow . the former Member for East Kilbride , Adam Ingram , grow up in the east end of Glasgow and be one of the first people I ever speak to in the Labour party . his advice and wise counsel have be a constant source of support to I over the year , and I be incredibly grateful . the other be a southsider , my friend and the former Member for Glasgow Central , Anas Sarwar . I have the great privilege of serve as the director of Anas ' s successful leadership campaign to become leader of Scottish Labour . three and a half year ago , as we sit begin that campaign , it be hard to imagine what the future might hold , but even in our most optimistic of moment , I do not think we would have predict this . I stand here as one of 37 Scottish Labour mps . have praise three Glaswegians , I will do something unusual for a Glasgow MP and praise someone from Edinburgh . my right hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) have be a friend of mine for many year , and he deserve enormous credit for his long and lonely shift as the sole Scottish Labour MP , and for be someone who recognise that the Labour party have to change if it be to earn people ' s trust once again . it give I enormous pleasure and pride to see he in his rightful place as the Secretary of State for Scotland . that brief interlude aside , we return to Scotland ' s real capital city . I be privileged to represent Glasgow ' s southside , a place that have have something of a renaissance in recent year , boast the trendy tenement of Shawlands , the tree - line avenue of Newlands and the beautiful conservation village of Carmunnock , among other . my constituency contain many of Glasgow ' s beautiful park , of which Linn Park , Queen ' s Park and Pollok Country Park be just a few . in the latter , hon . member will find the Burrell collection , which be award the Art Fund ' s museum of the year award after its reopening last year . like many part of the city , however , we be not without difficulty . Castlemilk be an area with enormous spirit and the kind people anyone will ever meet , but it also remain an area with challenge . even today , the simple act of get a supermarket in Castlemilk have prove difficult , something I hope I hope to change as local MP . what be true of all my constituency be that it be an outward - look , diverse and welcome place . the Scots - asian community in particular have contribute enormously to Glasgow ' s character , and I be very proud to represent they here in Parliament . immigration have make my constituency rich , and it make our country rich , too . the southside of Glasgow be also a passionately pro - european place . although Brexit be settle in the previous Parliament , I intend to support the Government ' s move to repair our relationship with Europe . my first duty be to my constituency and my country — be the Member of Parliament for Glasgow South be the only job that I will do , so long as the people of Glasgow South wish for I to continue — but I also feel a sense of responsibility towards the many million of people at home and around the world who do not have a voice ; the people toil away in darkness , just as my grandpa do all those year ago . I hope that none of we in this House forget the million — indeed , billion — of people around the world who be not as lucky as we , include those face persecution or war , those without access to clean water or a good education , and those bind by modern slavery . I be one of the lucky few to serve in this place , but I will never forget the people who put I here and the people who do not have a voice . deliver for they will be how I judge my success .