Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of the UK ' s accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership on the scottish economy . I think that we should draw a veil over last night ' s football , but I look forward to Scotland qualify next month for Euro 2024 . today be the National Farmers Union ' s Back British Farming Day , and I be sure that the whole House will join I in mark the important contribution that we farmer and grower make to our everyday life and to our economy . the comprehensive and progressive agreement for the trans - Pacific partnership trade bloc be project to make up the majority of global growth in the future . as a result of join the CPTPP , a deal that we could not strike while in the EU , scottish business be now in a prime position in the global economy to seize opportunity for new job , growth and innovation . the CPTPP be the most exciting and dynamic trading bloc , and a significant Brexit dividend . Scotland , like Wales , have great product to export . my right hon . friend mention farming . Welsh lamb and maybe Scotch whisky have some great opportunity to take advantage of within the CPTPP . will he encourage the devolved administration to work with the UK Government to ensure that we exploit those benefit and this Brexit opportunity for people in Scotland , Wales and elsewhere ? absolutely . my right hon . friend be right : the CPTPP be the fast - grow trade zone in the world , and with the UK include it be worth circa £ 12 trillion . to that end , we be work with the devolved administration . we have also put in a huge network of support centre across the UK , not least in Queen Elizabeth House in Edinburgh . I call the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . I be sure that the Secretary of State will be assist in determine Scotland ' s place in international arrangement by the Scottish Affairs Committee ' s report , " promote Scotland Internationally " , which be release today . in it , he will find that the work arrangement between personnel in both government be consensual and productive . do he not therefore feel slightly embarrassed by the ridiculous diktat from the Foreign Secretary , intend to put the Scottish Government back in their place ? the Scottish Secretary tell our Committee that it be necessary because , among other insignificant thing , Scottish Government Ministers have the temerity to say that Brexit be a bad thing for Scotland . do he not think that nearly all of Scotland think that Brexit be a bad thing for Scotland ? I stand by the word that I say to the hon . member ' s Committee . Sheep and Cattle Exports : quarantine what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the adequacy of the quarantine period for ( a ) sheep and ( b ) cattle to be export from Scotland to Northern Ireland . livestock can move from Northern Ireland to Great Britain , and then return to Northern Ireland , as long as they be host at an Animal and Plant Health Agency approve assembly centre and return within 15 day . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . do he agree that the Windsor framework have create unnecessary bureaucracy around livestock movement from Northern Ireland to GB mainland , particularly into scottish market , and have in fact decimate our pedigree cattle trade ? what can he do to help I ? the hon . Gentleman be a doughty champion for rural community in Northern Ireland , and he raise an important point . I will endeavour to arrange a meeting for he with colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs as soon as possible . poverty and Inequality what discussion he have hold with Cabinet colleague and the Scottish Government on the effectiveness of the step be take to reduce rate of ( a ) poverty and ( b ) inequality in Scotland . the United Kingdom Government be commit to a sustainable approach to tackle poverty and support people on low income . we have make substantial investment to help to mitigate the bad of the cost of living impact , include welfare spending of around £ 276 billion . the good route out of poverty , of course , be through work . therefore , our focus remain firmly on support people to move into and progress in work . Scotland have the low rate of child poverty in the UK , with the game - change scottish child payment help more than 300 , 000 , and lift 50 , 000 of they out of poverty . why do the UK Government continue to refuse to follow such a successful example ? the UK Government have ensure that the cost of living challenge have be tackle by work in tandem with the Scottish Government and use reserve and devolve lever to get the good outcome for everybody across Scotland . the benefit cap level have be increase by 10 . 1 % from 1 April . the national living wage have increase by 9 . 7 % to £ 10 . 42 an hour for worker age 23 year and over . overall , this Government be work to deliver for the most vulnerable in society , and will do so in conjunction with our partner in the Scottish Government . I call the shadow Minister . after 16 year of SNP Government and 13 year of the Tories , one in four child in Scotland live in poverty . there be 40 , 000 more child in poverty compare with a decade ago , and this week it be reveal that three member of the Scottish Government ' s own Poverty and Inequality Commission have resign . do the Minister agree that both the Scottish and the UK government should be work more urgently and more effectively to tackle child poverty ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his new position . the UK Government be commit to protect the most vulnerable in our society and we have take decisive step to do that , include UK - wide additional spending of £ 137 . 5 billion in benefit for pensioner , £ 67 . 9 billion in benefit to support disabled people and people with health condition and £ 114 . 3 billion in working - age benefit and child welfare . we have also uprate benefit and pension credit in line with inflation and have raise the national living wage to help to protect the most vulnerable . we will continue to keep the situation under review , but this Government have continually demonstrate our commitment to the most vulnerable across Scotland . Carbon Capture , Utilisation and Storage what recent discussion he have hold with Cabinet colleague on support the development of carbon capture , utilisation and storage in Scotland . carbon capture , utilisation and storage will be essential to meet the UK ' s 2050 net zero target , play a vital role in level up the economy , support the low - carbon economic transformation of our industrial region and create new high - value job across the United Kingdom . in Scotland , the Acorn cluster have be allocate more than £ 40 million in development funding by the Government and have be select , subject to final due diligence , for track 2 ccus cluster sequencing . accord to Office for Budget Responsibility and UK Government projection , the UK will see between £ 50 billion and £ 80 billion in revenue from North sea oil and gas over the next five year . while it be welcome that the Acorn project can now bid for funding , it be important to know that not a penny have be commit . can the Minister tell I what discussion the Secretary of State have have with Government colleague to secure at minimum a share of those revenue — say £ 1 billion over five year — to rapidly accelerate Scotland ' s carbon capture industry ? if not , do that mean he be content to see Scotland ' s people strip of their vast natural resource without a single penny of that £ 80 billion be invest in Scotland ' s carbon capture ambition ? I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman actually listen to my first answer , but more than £ 40 million have be allocate by the United Kingdom Government to the development of this technology . the Government will commence engagement and assessment of delivery plan and due diligence on the Acorn and viking transportation and storage system and will engage with they directly in respect of the next step to develop those . we will set out the process by which capture product in track 2 will be select to meet the stated ambition in due course . scottish Economy what recent step his Department have take to help support the scottish economy . when it come to growth , the hon . Lady will have note that the economic data show that we have recover well from the pandemic than France , Italy or Germany . support economic growth in Scotland remain a core priority of the Scotland Office , exemplify through our work in invest in the city and regional growth deal and in deliver freeport and investment zone in Scotland , which have bring ten of million of pound in investment and have create highly pay job . there be huge potential for offshore wind in Scotland and it be an important part of the transition to a green economy there . what conversation will the Minister be have with the offshore wind sector follow the absolutely disastrous contract for difference round last week ? I personally engage with all sector of the energy market , include the offshore wind sector . we be very pleased with the announcement that have be make follow the announcement last week and will continue to engage with the sector to see it develop across Scotland and other part of the United Kingdom . we come to the shadow Secretary of State . I join the Secretary of State in say how gutted we be about the football result last night — but mark my word , we will be seek revenge in Germany at the european championship next year . I take this opportunity to thank my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , who be in the shadow Scotland team but have move on to do new thing after the reshuffle , and to welcome to the Scotland team my hon . friend the Member for Keir Hardie ' s old seat , Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) . he be very welcome . last week , it be reveal that the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , have secure a book deal . her book be title " ten year to save the West " , but it might have be well focus on the 44 day it take she and her government , with the support of the Scottish Secretary , to crush the economy . do the Minister accept that scot will be pay the price for year to come for the Tories ' kamikaze handling of the economy ? as the hon . Gentleman well know , the economic challenge we face here in the United Kingdom be no different from those face by other economy around the world . they have be entirely cause by the illegal war in Ukraine and the covid pandemic . thankfully , due to the decisive action of this Conservative Government and Prime Minister , the evidence suggest that the UK be recover from the economic shock far well than France , Italy and Germany . Ukraine and covid do not crash the economy ; this Government do . the truth be that , after 13 year , we have a low - wage , low - growth economy . let I take the example of resident in a random scottish constituency , Rutherglen and Hamilton West . behind every door we knock on , the story be the same : the cost of living . those voter be pay the price for two bad government : the UK Government , who crash the economy and be ask work people to pay for it , and the Scottish Government , who mismanage the economy and be also ask work people to pay for it . there be a Tory premium on everyone ' s mortgage and rent , alongside the high tax burden on work people in 80 year , and the SNP want to increase income taxis far and be propose eye - water council tax rate for those resident . do the people of Rutherglen and Hamilton West not deserve a fresh start with Scottish Labour ' s Michael Shanks ? it be not so long ago that Scottish Labour be call for even high taxis on the people of Scotland . when scottish Labour leader Anas Sarwar stand for the leadership , he say : " I actually think our tax policy will be even more progressive and radical than even John McDonnell ' s or Jeremy Corbyn ' s tax policy or manifesto " . Mr Sarwar have now u - turn , of course , but maybe the hon . Gentleman can explain how much scottish Labour secretly want to put up taxis in Scotland . UK Departure from EU what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the UK ' s departure from the EU on Scotland . the UK Government be focus on open new international export market for scottish business . we have trade agreement with 71 non - EU country and the EU , and those agreement will support growth , job and high wage . the hon . Gentleman will have note the recently revise number , which show that we have recover well from the pandemic than France , Italy or Germany . since 2010 , the United Kingdom have achieve the third high rate of growth in the G7 — fast than Italy , France , Japan and Germany . we have a really good trading relationship with the European Union — it be call membership — and 78 % of people in Glasgow North , and 62 % of people across Scotland , vote to retain it . if Brexit be really deliver the success that the Secretary of State say it be , why do he think the poll show that those figure would be even high if the people of Scotland have the choice again ? the recent trading number show that we be now do more trade with the EU in good and service than we do when we be member . do my right hon . friend agree that we be develop a much well relationship with our former colleague in the EU , include through agreement such as the Windsor framework , and our accession to the North sea group of country that co - operate on energy and , more recently , to Horizon and other european programme ? that show that we be on the right footing to have a good future relationship post Brexit . yes . on Horizon , we be patient and do the right deal . it show the future for british scientist , as well as how important british scientist be to Horizon and how much the EU want they to be part of it . my right hon . and learn Friend be right : we have a well relationship , and one that do not cost £ 22 billion a year . NHS England - NHS Scotland Co - operation whether he have hold recent discussion with Cabinet colleague and the Scottish Government on increase co - operation between NHS England and NHS Scotland . the United Kingdom Government support collaboration between all our nation to share good practice , improve transparency and provide well accountability for patient . ministerial colleague at the Department of Health and Social Care have write to the Scottish Government invite they for talk on how we can work together to tackle long - term waiting list in all part of the United Kingdom . if someone be sick and their life be in danger , be it not the case that the border between Scotland and England should not get in the way of the good possible health outcome ? the hon . Member make an extremely important point — that be something about which I be acutely aware as a Borders MP . indeed , I have a constituent who live in Foulden who have be tell that they will need to wait over three year to have their cataract see to in Scotland . meanwhile , their neighbour , who be register with a gp in England , be be treat by NHS England within six month . my constituent simply do not understand that discrepancy . the SNP Government in Edinburgh should be do much more to drive down nhs waiting list and engage with colleague in Westminster to ensure that all people across these island get the good possible NHS service . government spending : Public Services what recent assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of the level of Government spending in Scotland to deliver public service . the United Kingdom Government be provide a record settlement of £ 41 billion per year — the large since devolution . in fact , the UK Government be provide the Scottish Government with over 20 % more funding per person than the equivalent UK Government spending in England . with the generous fiscal framework agreement , the Scottish Government have the certainty and flexibility to manage their budget and deliver high - quality public service across Scotland . the recent programme for government launch by the Scottish First Minister only reveal a tired Government too distract by internal squabbling to achieve anything for the people of Scotland . do the Minister agree that the scottish people deserve a change of Government in Scotland and Westminster , with a Labour Government focus on tackle the cost of live and improve living standard for the whole of the UK ? the SNP ' s programme for government be a complete and utter miss opportunity : rather than focus on Scotland ' s NHS and school , and our economy and transport link , the SNP be too busy plan independence rally . Scotland do need change , and I be confident that , in the next general election , we will see that change in the election of even more scottish Conservative and Unionist mps . seafood Sector what recent discussion he have hold with Cabinet colleague on support the seafood sector in Scotland . the Government be commit to support our seafood sector , which be the lifeblood of some of the most remote and fragile community in Scotland . this past Monday , I meet with ministerial colleague in the Home Office to discuss in more detail the comprehensive package of support measure this Government have offer to the sector to ease access to labour challenge . I thank my hon . friend for that response . what discussion have he have with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero — I see the Minister , our hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , sit next to he on the Front Bench — and the Scottish Government to ensure that the impact of offshore wind on the fishing industry and coastal community will be adequately address , along with the impact of marine protection area ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his continued , energetic and relentless campaigning for his constituency and the fishing sector . this Government be commit to work with other Government Departments and the Scottish Government on our share ambition to protect the marine environment and ensure that the increase spatial squeeze on our sea be manage effectively . however , we also note the legitimate concern of the fishing industry and continue to engage with stakeholder , other UK Government Departments and the Scottish Government through the Scottish Seafood Industry Action Group . I understand that the Energy Minister , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , be due to meet my hon . friend shortly . fisherman from Portavogie , Ardglass and Kilkeel work hand in hand with fisherman from Scotland , so whatever benefit the Minister can bring to scottish fisherman will benefit the fisherman and fisherwoman of Northern Ireland . have any discussion take place of how Scotland and Northern Ireland can work well together , include here at Westminster ? I be happy to work with all colleague across the United Kingdom to advance the fishing industry , and I be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss how we do that together . devolution of Drugs Policy what discussion he have hold with Cabinet colleague and the Scottish Government on the devolution of drug policy to Scotland . what discussion he have hold with Cabinet colleague and the Scottish Government on the devolution of drug policy to Scotland . illicit drug destroy life and devastate community . the United Kingdom Government ' s 10 - year drug strategy set out ambitious plan , back by a record £ 3 billion over three year , to tackle the supply of illicit drug and build a world - class system of treatment and recovery . this be a UK - wide strategy , and there be no plan to devolve drug policy to the Scottish Government . the Lord Advocate have announce that she be not go to prosecute drug user for simple possession offence commit within a pilot safe drug consumption facility . both the Home Affairs Committee of this House and the Scottish Affairs Committee have recommend that the UK Government support such a pilot in Glasgow by create a legislative pathway under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 that would enable such a facility to operate , or by devolve the power to the Scottish Government . both cross - party Committees of this House be very clear that the evidence show that those measure could be lifesave , so when will the Secretary of State act to save life in Scotland by persuade his government to drop their intransigence on this issue ? it be disappointing that the Scottish Government be not prepared to work with the UK Government on Project ADDER . that offer be make with support funding . the e in ADDER be for " enforcement " . I believe the police and the Procurator Fiscal Service should be enforce the law in Scotland , not decriminalise drug , because enforcement help to drive people to health solution . the Minister do not answer the question , so I will try again . Scotland need a caring , compassionate , human right - inform drug policy with public health and the reduction of harm as its principle , and the Scottish Government be ready and willing to work with the UK Government to put that progressive policy into practice . Scottish Tory MSP Miles Briggs say on " Good Morning Scotland " yesterday that he hope the UK Government would not move to block this lifesave measure . despite the Minister ' s Cabinet colleague continue to denounce its effectiveness , what recent discussion have he have with the Scottish Government on advance this pilot scheme ? drug consumption room be not the easy solution hon . member may think they be . there be no safe way to take illegal drug . drug devastate life , ruin family and damage community . the UK Government believe that the police and the Procurator Fiscal Service should fully enforce the law . however , I say to the hon . Lady that if the Scottish Government and the Lord Advocate decide to proceed with a pilot on dcrs , the UK Government will not intervene . the Secretary of state will fully realise the challenge it would present for Border Force if we have differ rule on what drug be lawful and not lawful across the United Kingdom . therefore , will he assure I that he will not look to devolve drug policy , and will instead get the Scottish Government to focus on their own responsibility ? hear , hear ! Labour Members always seem to cheer I at this moment in scottish question . they be very generous . my hon . friend make a very good point . drug death in Scotland be three time high than the UK average , despite the law be the same across the UK . I do not believe drug consumption room be the panacea to those problem , but we absolutely must have drug law that work across the whole United Kingdom because it be a UK - wide problem . I call the SNP spokesperson . I think we should be clear : the Lord Advocate ' s statement on Monday be a game changer . it remove one of the major obstacle to a pilot drug consumption facility , which be design to prevent overdose . the Secretary of State have be equivocal in his response so far , so let I give he another chance to get on the right side of history . will he actually say that he will support and work with the Scottish Government to see this pilot project through ? I think I have be clear . I have be clear that the UK Government ' s policy be not to proceed with drug consumption room . we believe , as I have say , that drug devastate family and destroy community . I be very clear about those thing , but I be also very clear that the Lord Advocate and the Scottish Government appear to have achieve a workaround that allow they to have a pilot drug consumption room , probably in Glasgow , and the United Kingdom Government will not intervene in that , so the SNP now have no more excuse . can I press the Secretary of State on this point , because of course he have form on intervene in decision of the Scottish Government ? he say he will not intervene . can we therefore be clear that he will say , on behalf of the UK Government , that he will not use any administrative or legislative mean to frustrate or block this pilot policy by the Scottish Government ? hear , hear ! I be very popular today . I will be with SNP Members in particular when I say that the answer be yes . cost of live increase what recent discussion he have hold with the Scottish Government on the impact of increase in the cost of live on people in ( a ) the UK and ( b ) Scotland . our Government have take assertive action on the cost of living . UK - wide support for household to help with high energy bill be worth £ 94 billion , or £ 3 , 300 per household on average . the United Kingdom Government ' s focus have be on support everyone with the cost of live with specific target support and tailor intervention for the most vulnerable . I thank the Minister for his answer . he will know that , like his constituent , my constituent in Edinburgh West still face the impact of food inflation , high energy bill and unfair standing charge for electricity . however , we also now face the potential bombshell of a council tax hike by the Scottish Government , which will affect 14 , 500 household in Edinburgh West that will have to pay more than £ 2 , 000 a year . will the UK Government be speak to the Scottish Government — [ interruption . ] if SNP Members do not mind ! will the UK Government be speak to the Scottish Government to try to mitigate this , and what step do they have in mind to do so ? I share the hon . Lady ' s concern about the SNP - Green Government ' s bombshell tax plan to hike up the tax burden for many household , with people already face pressure on their household budget . as she will know , along with the record block grant , the spring Budget provide the Scottish Government with an extra £ 320 million over the next two year , on top of the £ 1 . 5 billion of additional funding that we provide in the autumn statement of 2022 . our economic priority of halve inflation and grow the economy be the most effective way of support her constituent . strength of the Union what recent assessment he have make of the strength of the Union . I believe that support for the Union be strong . the United Kingdom be one of the most successful political and economic union in the world , and the foundation on which all our business and citizen be able to thrive . when we work collaboratively , we be safe , strong and more prosperous . while the SNP ' s First Minister whip up grievance politic at independence rally , Scotland ' s NHS go backwards , Scotland ' s ferry do not work and Scotland ' s economy stagnate . do the Secretary of State agree that it be about time that the SNP stop obsess about another independence referendum , and start deliver for the people of Scotland ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I could not have put it well myself . be the truth of the Union not that while we see independent Norway and independent Ireland in budget surplus — independent Ireland with a surplus this year of € 10 billion , rise to € 23 billion in the next three year — the Scottish Government can not build small hospital on small scottish island ? be the answer not for Scotland to remove the Westminster handcuff and to get the independence and budget surplus of Norway and Ireland , so that we can move forward and move away from the Brexit of the Tories and the Labour party ? they always say independence will sort the problem . Scotland be not build hospital on the island because the Scottish Government be squander the most generous settlement they have have since devolution begin . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I wish to welcome a special guest who be observe our proceeding today — the Speaker of the Jordanian House of Representatives . Mr Speaker , you be most welcome . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 13 September . I start by pay tribute to the Clerk of the House , Sir John Benger , and thank he for his many year of distinguished service . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I will have further such meeting later today . the wealth of billionaire have skyrocket over the past decade , while average work household in the UK have the low living standard since the 1950 . while hard - work family be struggle to make end meet , the wealthy be play by a different set of rule , with report that even member of the House of Lords be try to exploit the non - dom status loophole to avoid pay their fair share . do the Prime Minister agree that whether it be the wife of the most powerful man in the country or the host of " the Apprentice " , no billionaire should qualify for special tax treatment while my constituent face soar level of inequality and poverty ? the fact tell a very different story from what the hon . Gentleman say . he mention inequality ; inequality today be low than it be in 2010 . he mention the number of people in poverty . again , I be pleased to say that 1 . 7 million few people be in poverty today than in 2010 , include many in Scotland . of course we understand that thing be challenge right now with the cost of living . that be why we have put in place record support to help family , particularly with their energy bill and particularly for the most vulnerable in our society , with record amount of cost of living payment go to million across the country , include in Scotland , show the power of the United Kingdom Government . thank to this Conservative Government , we have the opportunity to be the first country in the world to end new case of HIV by 2030 . that be partially down to our world - lead opt - out HIV testing programme that have be roll out in very high prevalence area . to reach this goal and to make this progress , we must roll out opt - out testing to other high prevalence area , such as the west midland , include my constituency of West Bromwich East . will the Prime Minister commit to meet I and the incredible Terrence Higgins Trust to hear more about the merit of opt - out testing ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue and thank she for her work in this area . we remain absolutely committed to end new HIV transmission within England by 2030 , and I be pleased that she highlight that the provisional datum from NHS England indicate that the opt - out testing programme have be highly successful . the Department of Health and Social Care be currently evaluate the impact of the programme with a view to decide whether it should be expand to additional area , and I know Ministers will keep she and the House update . we come to the Leader of the Opposition . I join the Prime Minister in his word about the Clerk of the House . I pay tribute to the police who track down the escaped terror suspect from Wandsworth prison last week . despite be charge with terrorism , and despite be a flight risk , he be not hold in a category a prison . why not ? I thank the police and their partner for their effort to find and arrest Daniel Khalife . there be now an ongoing legal process that must be allow to take its course , but I would like to reassure the public that while these case be extremely rare , the Justice Secretary have launch an internal investigation about how this could happen , as well as an independent investigation of the incident so that we can learn the lesson from this case and ensure that it never happen again . the truth be , the Government be preside over mayhem in the criminal justice system . only a few short month ago , Zara Aleena ' s family say that Ministers have — these be their word — " blood on their hand " after probation failure that lead to her murder , so it beggar belief that we be back here once again . the chief inspector of prison say that condition in Wandsworth be so bad that it should be shut down . the Chancellor be tell anyone who will listen that he raise concern month ago . probation , school building , and now prison — why do the Prime Minister keep ignore the warning until it be too late ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman , with his background , should know well . because of the wide variety and considerable difference in severity of people charge under that Act , it be not , and have never be , the policy that they be all hold in category a prison . it should not need I to point that out to he , give his experience . the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about resource . I be happy to tell he that , over the last few year , we have deliver an extra 4 , 000 new prison officer . staffing level at Wandsworth in particular be up by 25 % in the past six year and , because we be boost prison pay , we be also improve retention . at the same time , we be invest £ 100 million to improve prison security with new measure such as X - ray body scanner . if he want to have a truly honest debate about this , perhaps he would acknowledge that prison escape be almost 10 time high under the Labour Government than under the Conservatives . [ interruption . ] order . I do say this last week , and it will continue this week : anyone who want to start the session by leave , please do so . I be happy to help you on your way . every week , whatever the topic , the Prime Minister paint this picture as if everything be great and fine out there . it be so at odd with the live experience in the real world . let I turn to another serious security concern . some in this House face sanction , intimidation and threat from the chinese state . when I ask the Prime Minister on Monday whether the Foreign Secretary raise the specific issue of the allege spy arrest in March when he visit China a few week ago , he would only say that he raise that " type of activity " , but avoid specific . I ask the Prime Minister again : do the Foreign Secretary raise this specific case when he visit China — yes or no ? I refer the right hon . and learn Gentleman to my previous answer , where I say clearly that the Foreign Secretary raise these issue with the chinese Foreign Minister , whom he meet , as do I when I have my meeting with Premier Li over the weekend . when it come to China , the Government have put in place the most robust policy that have ever exist in our country ' s foreign policy . it be to protect our country and the value and interest we stand up for ; it be to align our approach with our close ally , include those in the G7 and five eye ; and it be to engage — where it make sense — either to advance our interest or , as I do at the weekend , to raise our very significant concern . that be the right approach to China . it be one that be welcome by each and every one of our ally . I would be interested to know what he think he would do differently . that certainly be not a yes . what the Prime Minister say now be totally at odd with the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament report of July . that set out that the Government have no clear strategy when it come to China , have fail to support the intelligence agency , and be leave the UK " severely handicapped " in manage our future security . this have be raise time and again but , yet again , the Prime Minister fail to heed the warning and be now desperately play catch - up . will he finally commit to the full audit of UK - China relation that so many in this House have so long demand ? as always , the Leader of the Opposition be just play catch - up , but he have not catch up with the reality of what be actually happen . he talk about the ISC report . if he actually go through it , he would realise that it relate to a period of investigation in 2019 and 2020 . since then , we have launch a whole new integrate review refresh of our China strategy , which be publish . we have put in place a range of new measure , include the National Security Protective Authority , which be staff out of MI5 and support business and organisation to be alert to the risk from cyber and from China . if the right hon . and learn Gentleman want to talk about foreign policy , he should perhaps reflect on his own record . this be the man who say he be 100 % behind the former labour leader — a person who want to abolish the Army , scrap Trident and withdraw from NATO . it be clear what he do : he put his own political interest ahead of Britain ' s . probation , prison , school , China — yet again , inaction man fail to heed the warning and then blame everyone else for the consequence . on Sunday , the Home Secretary celebrate her first anniversary in post — that is , if we overlook the six day she miss when she be deem a national security risk . in that year , 40 , 000 people have cross the channel on a small boat , and the taxpayer be now spend £ 6 million a day on hotel bill . the Prime Minister be fail to stop terrorist stroll out of prison , fail to guard Britain against hostile actor , and he be completely fail to stop the boat . how can anyone trust he to protect the country ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about trust and about action , but just today , this Government be take action to reform defective EU law to unlock over 100 , 000 home , boost our economy , support job and ensure that we can realise the aspiration of homeowner . he talk about trust ; he try in this House to talk the talk on house building , but at the first sign of a cheap political hit , what do he do ? he cave in . rather than make the right long - term decision for the country , he have take the easy way out . it be typical of the principle - free , conviction - free type of leadership that he offer , flip - flopping from be a builder to a blocker . the british public can not trust a word he say . every week the Prime Minister come here , protest that nothing be his fault and try to convince anyone who be still listen that everything be great . the truth be that the floor fall in for million of family because of the Government ' s economic mayhem ; the classroom ceiling collapse because he cut vital school budget ; and now the wall of our national security have be breach because they have ignore repeat warning . no one vote for this shamble . no one vote for he . how much more damage do the british public have to put up with before he finally find the stomach to give they a say ? we be get on for the british public . just in the last week we have announce a new landmark deal for british scientist and attract £ 600 million of new investment for our world - lead auto industry , and wage be now rise at the fast rate on record . and where have the right hon . and learn Gentleman be this week ? lock away with Labour ' s union paymaster , promise to give they more power and to scrap the law that protect british family and their access to public service . it be clear that it be only the Conservatives who be on the side of the hard - work british public . last week , with Yorkshire colleague , I meet our local integrate care board to discuss plan for improve dentistry provision . when surgery suddenly close to NHS patient without notice , as one in Harrogate do very recently , an immediate strain be put on local provision . will the Prime Minister look at what can be do in those circumstance to ensure no one be leave without access to an NHS dentist ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that , and we will look into the issue . he will be reassure to know that we be invest £ 3 billion a year in dentistry . there be no geographical restriction on which dental practice a patient may attend and practice should keep all their record up to date , include whether they be accept new patient . typically , where a practice end a contract , NHS England and icb should work together to ensure that funding be reallocate and patient continue to have access to NHS dental care . I call the SNP leader . as someone who spend more money heat their swimming pool than the total value of the UK state pension , the Prime Minister — I think it be safe to say — might not be as invest in this topic as some other , but let we afford he the opportunity to clear up any confusion . will he commit his party , the conservative party , to maintain the state pension triple lock beyond the next general election — yes or no ? this be the party that introduce the triple lock . this be the party that have deliver a £ 3 , 000 increase in the state pension since 2010 . it be also the party that have ensure that there be 200 , 000 few pensioner live in poverty today and that this winter pensioner will get an extra £ 300 alongside their winter fuel payment to support they through the challenge time with inflation . our track record be clear . there be one party in this House that have always stand up for our pensioner and that be the conservative party . I do not think we hear a yes there , Mr Speaker . you will imagine my shock — my utter surprise — that we appear to have consensus once again between the Conservative party and the Labour party on this most important of issue , despite the promise that be make to the people of Scotland in 2014 and despite clear statement from the like of Gordon Brown that the only way to protect pension be to remain within the UK . how hollow those word be now . who do the Prime Minister think will scrap the state pension triple lock first , his government or the Labour party ' s Government ? thank to the action of this Government , pensioner in Scotland be receive record increase in their state pension — £ 870 this year — and extra support with the cost of live this winter . this be the Government who introduce and remain committed to the triple lock , but the hon . Gentleman raise a good point . pensioner in Scotland should know that the reason they can rely on the state pension , not just today but for year to come , be the strength of our Union and the strength of our United Kingdom Government . Beautiful Eastbourne be perhaps well know as a top visitor destination , but there be important work be do to put we on the digital map . DigiFest , the first local event of its kind , be come to the Welcome Building next week . it will showcase some pretty stellar local tech talent and open door of opportunity , with an ambition to create 10 , 000 local job in this sector . will the Prime Minister applaud event organiser Chalk Eastbourne and Switchplane , and lie out what the Government be do to ensure Great Britain — and Eastbourne — be one of the good place in the world to be involve in this continually groundbreake sector ? the Government have a mission to make the UK the most innovative economy in the world and the growth of our tech industry be one of the key way we will achieve that . I be delighted to join my hon . friend in thank and pay tribute to Chalk Eastbourne for its terrific organisation of DigiFest . this be a great example of how , in local area , we can bring together people to create job and opportunity , and ultimately drive the growth that our country want to see . last year , after be refer by their GP , 22 , 000 people wait more than four month to start urgent treatment for cancer — a terrible wait that be twice as long as the Government ' s maximum 62 - day pledge ; a cancer target they have not meet once since 2015 . we all have love one whose life have be turn upside down by cancer and we all know that every day count . wait reduce the chance of survival . will the Prime Minister tell people wait anxiously to start their cancer treatment when this cancer target will be meet ? it be absolutely right that we do everything we can to speed up cancer diagnosis . the pandemic have have a significant impact on cancer recovery : as the right hon . Gentleman will know , before the pandemic there be about 200 , 000 cancer referral a month , but during the pandemic the figure drop to about 80 , 000 , and now , as those referral come through , that be have an impact . however , we be ensure that there be hundred more oncologist and radiologist work this year than last year , and roll out more than 160 community diagnostic centre . as the right hon . Gentleman say , early diagnosis be key , which be why , although there be work to do , cancer treatment today be at record level . we be make progress , and the 62 - day backlog be now fall . recently the NHS write to all trust , streamline our target , clinically advise , and now all the focus be on meet they as quickly as possible . in 2017 , the Bolton police station custody suite be close by the police and crime commissioner and the then chief constable , because they have give up on arrest criminal . the new chief constable be deliver on the people ' s priority , so that emergency call be answer promptly , crime be investigate and arrest be make , which mean that the newly reopen custody suite be always full . will my right hon . friend join I in thank Greater Manchester police ? do he think that that approach ought to catch on throughout the country ? I be delighted with the improvement that have be make by Greater Manchester police ; the Home Secretary meet the chief constable recently . they have make significant improvement in , for example , answer 999 call , and have see almost a 50 % year on year increase in the number of charge record . I very much welcome the force ' s focus on get the basic on crime and antisocial behaviour right . it be a model for police force across the country . I thank the Prime Minister for his response to the hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , but I be still confused on this matter . just yesterday , the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions say that the pension triple lock be not sustainable , and the Chancellor ' s economic adviser have suggest that it be time to review the policy , but those at no . 10 , when question , have say that they be committed to it . which be it ? this Government be commit to the triple lock ; it be this Government who introduce the triple lock . the hon . Lady might want to have a word with her own deputy leader , who do not provide much clarity on the matter . what we all remember , when it come to pension , be Gordon Brown ' s 75p a week increase . week in week out , as I meet business in my constituency , I hear about how artificial intelligence be transform the way we work in sector such as life science , automotive and financial service . do my right hon . friend agree that artificial intelligence will transform the way in which humanity will live in the 21st century ? through his upcoming global AI summit , will he ensure that appropriate guardrail be put in place to protect society as we become world leader in this technology ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the incredible power of AI to transform not just business and our productivity , but public service such as health and education . however , we do need guardrail to allow we to make the most of the opportunity of AI , and to address risk . we have a responsible , proportionate regulatory approach that balance risk with innovation , and I look forward to work with international partner at our upcoming AI safety summit on how we do that at a global level . Luton airport be try to expand its capacity massively , from 18 million passenger per year to a whopping 32 million . that will blight the life of thousand of resident across Hertfordshire and Bedfordshire — especially those in north St Albans , who live under the flightpath — but it will also fly in the face of advice from the Government ' s own climate adviser . it have be report that the Prime Minister be get ready to ignore his climate adviser . be that true ? no ; but I would say that my approach to reach net zero be not one that require people to give up do the thing that they want to do and enjoy , such as fly . the right thing to be do be as we be do : invest in and fund new technology , such as sustainable aviation fuel , because that be how we will decarbonise aviation during the transition to net zero , rather than force people to give everything up . when the Prime Minster be Chancellor of the Exchequer , he put the full might of the Treasury behind the 10 - year drug strategy , which , with its Adder Project , be now turn life around across England and Wales . a key part of that strategy be develop a new approach to possession . he will know from his own constituency that in town such as Andover in mine , possession be a huge concern , particularly to the parent of young people who spend time in the town centre . the Home Office issue a White Paper on this over a year ago , and the consultation close in October last year . will the Prime Minister commit in the forthcoming king ' s Speech to legislation that will deal finally with this pernicious problem ? I thank my right hon . friend for all of his work and attention in this area ; it be good to work with he on Project Adder in particular . he be right to highlight the fact that drug destroy life and family , hit the most vulnerable in our society the hard . the 10 - year drug strategy , which he help put in place , be ambitious and back with a record £ 3 billion of funding . as he highlight , we have consult on a new drug possession offence framework , and I assure he that Ministers will keep he and this House update on future plan . in the last few hour I have be contact by the headteacher of St James ' s Church of England Primary School in Blackburn , who be desperately seek help after a reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete survey conduct on 7 September be inconclusive . the urgent intrusive inspection that be suppose to follow have not be arrange by the Department for Education . the potentially affected part of the building have be close off , with child cram into the dining room and learn at the table . staff be unable to access facility and the whole school be hugely inconvenience . the headteacher have be unable to meet the Department for Education , so can I implore the Prime Minister to get the Secretary of State for Education to investigate this urgently ? of course I be sorry for the disruption at school as we work hard to identify those affect , but the DFE be fully fund the inspection process , ensure that we be now rapidly inspect and survey all potentially affect school and pay for that work . also , with the increase of up to 80 dedicated caseworker , St James ' s Primary School , like other , should have a dedicated point of contact to work through those issue . I will ensure that the Secretary of State and the Department be in touch with the school and the hon . member for an update . personally , I know the stark impact of dementia and the effect that it have on the family of our 1 million citizen who live with it . it be my honour last week to sponsor Alzheimer ' s Research UK to highlight the recent progress on a new diagnostic test and new drug that could be available as early as next January . I welcome the inclusion of dementia in the Government ' s major condition strategy , but will my right hon . Friend ask his Secretary of State to convene a dementia medicine taskforce so that we can take advantage of this progress in research ? will he consider Alzheimer ' s Research UK ' s request for a dementia champion ? I start by thank my hon . friend for his work in this important area . regulator be work closely with industry to evaluate new dementia medicine , because of course we want patient to benefit from rapid access to safe and effective treatment . we be also strongly committed to funding dementia research , include double the amount allocate to £ 160 million a year by next year , and last year we launch the Dame Barbara Windsor dementia mission , back up with new funding , which will work with industry to develop biomarker and datum and digital science innovation and to strengthen our trial in dementia . I look forward to hear more suggestion from my hon . friend on that . in the 1990 , under the Conservative Government , people be die because of the length of time they be on NHS waiting list . in 2023 , we be see an increase number of people die while they be on NHS waiting list before get treatment . be the Prime Minister ashame that people be die needlessly on his watch ? of course , the number on waiting list have be impact significantly by the pandemic , but that be why we have put record funding in place to help to address that , include innovation such as surgical hub , same - day emergency care , virtual ward and such like . I would gently point out to the hon . Gentleman that , in England , part of the reason that waiting list be not come down as fast we would like be the strike action by doctor — something that be support by he and his colleague , who have stand on the picket line ensure that patient can not get access to care . it be also he and his party who be say that they will repeal the law we have put in place that will guarantee patient safe access to medical treatment in the event of industrial action . if he want to make this issue emotional , he should tell people why he believe that patient should be deprive of access to lifesave care because of industrial action . west midland : Economic Outlook what recent assessment he have make of the economic outlook for the west midland . we regularly engage with local partner across the west midland to gather insight and intelligence on the economy . early this year we initiate the trailblazer devolution deal , which include measure to help business thrive . I see that , just the other week , the Mayor launch Business Growth West Midlands , back with £ 100 million in funding for business support . I thank the Prime Minister for that answer , and I be glad to hear about the continue growth in the west midland . however , in Lichfield we have a problem with road and footpath closure , and we do not know for how long they will go on . HS2 be behind these closure , and one hand do not know what the other be do — HS2 be the most dysfunctional organisation I have ever have to deal with . will the Prime Minister , in the short term , try to restructure hs2 so that it work as a company should ? in the long term , can he save other constituency by stop hs2 at the end of phase 1 ? I know the frustration that this be cause to my hon . friend ' s constituent . I be tell that HS2 Ltd be prioritise the completion of work that be under way , include roadwork in Lichfield , to keep disruption to a minimum . I know that the Transport Secretary will continue to hold it to account and that the company will keep local community inform about future work . engagement UK billpayer be face have to pay an extra £ 1 billion because of the Government ' s failure to agree new offshore wind . with Russia use energy as a weapon , when will the Prime Minister take energy security seriously and protect we from the whim of fossil fuel autocrat ? we do take energy security seriously . indeed , we create a brand - new Department to focus on energy security , so it be a bit rich come from a Labour party , which want to cut off our access to home - grow british oil and gas , which would increase our reliance on foreign oil and gas , increase our reliance on dictator and increase our exposure to those market . as independent report have say , it would also be bad for the climate , as import fossil fuel come with something like two or three time the emission . labour ' s policy be not just bad for the environment ; it be bad for our energy security and bad for british job . the collapse of a potential rescue deal for Wilko this week bring add urgency to the regeneration of our town centre . will the Prime Minister agree to meet I and the leader of Torbay Council to identify way that , with Government support and planning reform , this can be accelerate ? investment through both arm of our town fund be part of how we will regenerate and unleash the potential of our town centre . I be delighted to hear that that investment include Torbay ' s £ 21 . 9 million town deal and , indeed , £ 13 . 5 million for Paignton via the future high street fund . my hon . friend be right about ensure that our planning system be friendly for small business , and that be what we be do : make it much easy to convert unused shop into caf é s , restaurant or , indeed , new home . that be an example of how we be help our high street to adapt and thrive . the new Defence Secretary have be quote as say that RAAC could be present in military building . can the Prime Minister today guarantee the safety of our military personnel and equipment ? or be this yet another tick time bomb that the Government have fail to see come ? across the public sector , Departments be make sure they follow the technical guidance to identify and mitigate RAAC , as require . as the hon . Lady have see in the NHS , we have move the affected hospital into the new hospital programme . more generally , this Government have invest record sum in defence — the £ 24 billion at the last spending review be the single big uplift in defence spending since the end of the cold war . it be vital that we retain , recruit and protect our prison officer , so will the Prime Minister agree to prevent any prisoner who assault a prison officer from be release early from jail ? this simple measure would be very popular with prisoner officer and the public , and — you never know , Mr Speaker — it might even find favour with the party opposite , which normally think that the only people who should be in prison be those who misgender people . my hon . friend be right to say that prisoner who be violent towards people work and live in prison will and should face the full consequence of their action . I be pleased that the recent Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 increase the maximum penalty , to up to two year ' imprisonment , for those who assault emergency worker — that include prison officer . the Ministry of Justice will continue to press for charge for more serious offence , such as abh — assault occasion actual bodily harm — where appropriate . at the weekend , seven global economic power come together to agree a monumental trade agreement . they include India , the United States and the European Union , but not the UK . do the Prime Minister choose not to sign up because , presumably , he think it be a bad deal , or be the UK leave out altogether because he have as weak a reputation on the world stage as he do at home ? I be not sure whether the hon . Lady be here for the statement on Monday , but I rather assume she be not . what she describe be not a trade deal so , first , she should get her fact right . as I explain on Monday , there be lot of different way in which country will participate in solve international issue . at the same summit she mention , we announce a record investment in the green climate fund — the single big investment by this country to help with international climate finance . that be warmly welcome by country at the summit , which can see that the UK be take a leadership role and help country to adapt to and mitigate the impact of climate change . this week , we be hit by the devastating news that all Wilko store would be close , mean the loss of 12 , 500 job . bassetlaw and Worksop be the home of Wilko ' s headquarters and a distribution centre , where 1 , 500 job be set to go . Wilko have be mismanage for year . in the past decade , more than £ 77 million have be pay out to shareholder , and recently the HQ be sell for £ 48 million before be lease back . will the Prime Minister reassure my constituent , and all those nationally who be affect by the demise of Wilko , that he and the Government will do everything in their power to help support people into job and make sure that their redundancy package and pension be protect , and that we will take whatever action be available to we to hold the ownership to account ? as my hon . friend know , some of the topic he raise will be commercial matter for the company , but I do know that this be a concern time for worker at Wilko . my right hon . friend the Business Secretary be keep close to development and we have already start support those who have be make redundant , and we stand ready to support other to the full of our ability . the head of the Army , General Sir Patrick Sanders , have say that the UK must " forge an Army capable of fight alongside our ally and defeat Russia in battle " . so why be the Government still push ahead with further cut , of 10 , 000 troop , to the british Army ? again , this be the Government who have put a record amount into our armed force : £ 24 billion . we remain the second large investor in our defence in NATO . as we see at the NATO summit , other country look to we for leadership . how the armed force allocate that record funding be a matter for the chief , to make sure that we have the capability we need to meet the threat of today . that be a decision that they will make and we will back they , but no one can doubt our commitment to fund properly the armed force and ensure that we keep this country safe . the Prime Minister have rightly say that democracy such as the UK , not authoritarian regime , should lead the fight on global challenge such as development and climate change . give that the link between fail regime , climate change and the number of asylum seeker be grow , will my right hon . friend ensure that do development democratically be a key theme in the White Paper on international development ? will he also visit the Westminster Foundation for Democracy ' s Garden of Democracy exhibition here in Parliament , which highlight our promotion of democratic value abroad ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the exhibition in Portcullis House . member will have hear his invitation . we be consult widely on the detail of the White Paper on international development and what it should say , and specifically on the role of democracy in development . I encourage all interested organisation and individual to share their idea through the public consultation . may I just say thank you to Sir John Benger , in his final Prime Minister ' s question , for his loyal service to the House ? we do appreciate it . thank you , Sir John . combine Sewer Overflows ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State if she will make a statement on combine sewer overflow . with the usual courtesy , I welcome the hon . member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) to his place . I restate that I have always be clear that the current volume of sewage discharge by water company be totally unacceptable , and they must act urgently to improve their performance so that they meet Government and public expectation . I confirm that the Department , the Environment Agency and Ofwat have receive the information notice and will , of course , comply with their request . we do not agree with the Office for Environmental Protection ' s assessment of our compliance with the law , and the House should note that the OEP itself have say : " we recognise that a great deal be already be do to tackle the issue of untreated sewage discharge , and we welcome the intent of Government measure such as the Plan for water and storm overflow target , as well as commitment to increase investment . " the public be rightly disgust by sewage discharge from storm overflow , and so be the Government , which be why we have take more action than any other Government on the issue . I remind hon . member that the European Commission take the Labour Government to court in 2009 for breach of the law . subsequently , we have start the construction of the Thames tideway tunnel , which be due to be complete next year . it be take a decade to construct . however , a decade ago , the Conservative - lead Government take action and start require the monitoring of storm overflow . that work will be complete by the end of this year . it be owe to that that the scale of the problem have be unveil . I note that in Wales , which be run by a Labour Government , discharge occurrence be much high — 38 time a year for outflow versus 23 in England . the Environment Act 2021 include new power and responsibility , which increase understanding . last year , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs publish the storm overflow discharge reduction plan . that lead to some of the action that we be take . we have be repeatedly clear that water company ' reliance on overflow be unacceptable . they must significantly reduce how much sewage they discharge as a priority . we be hold they to account , and that be also true of our regulator . I remind the House that active investigation , include an active criminal investigation , of water company be under way . we welcome the opportunity to set out the scale of the action that the Government be take . no Government in history have do more to tackle the issue . last year , we launch the storm overflow discharge reduction plan . our strict target will lead to the tough ever crackdown on sewage spill , and we require water company to deliver the large ever infrastructure programme in water company history . I be therefore happy to answer today ' s urgent question , but I say , yet again , that the Conservative Government be clean up the mess leave by a Labour Government , and we will get on with the job . nothing more graphically illustrate 13 year of fail Tory government than the tide of raw sewage swill down our river , into our lake and wash up on our beach . the Conservatives cut the Environment Agency ' s budget in half . that lead to drastic cut in monitoring , enforcement and prosecution , which lead to a drastic increase in illegal discharge , trash nature , damage tourism and put kid ' health at risk . this Government be up to their neck in a sewage crisis of their own making . and now , in an absolutely unprecedented move , the Office for Environmental Protection tell we that the Government may have break the law themselves in allow all of this . it identify possible failure to comply with environmental law by the Secretary of State ' s own Department , the Environment Agency and Ofwat . this Government have break the entire regulatory system . they enable this scandal , but do we hear a word of apology just now ? no , we do not . there be only complacency . labour want severe and automatic fine for every illegal discharge to pay for a tough regulation and enforcement regime . why will the Government not do that ? we want mandatory monitoring of every outlet so that the public know where the discharge be happen . why will the Government not agree to that ? can the Secretary of State tell we which Ministers sign off what the oep call " a misinterpretation of the law " to allow more frequent sewage discharge without risk of sanction ? that be a government - sanction green light to pollute . be it she ? what action will she now take to put an end to this appalling situation , bring the water company to heel and clean up our waterway ? will she publish the correspondence between the OEP and her Department if she have nothing to hide ? finally , if the Secretary of State ' s Department be find to have break the law , will she do the right thing and resign ? the Prime Minister would not tolerate raw sewage in his private swimming pool , so why be he happy to treat the british countryside as an open sewer ? the risk for the hon . Gentleman be that he have already soil his own reputation by fail to acknowledge that the investigation that lead to that court case , which be refer to in the information notice , take place under a Labour Government . on Sky last night , I believe it be a former Labour Minister from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs who basically say that he know sewage discharge be happen , and what do the Labour Government do about it ? they do not do anything . in 2006 , they set out a consultation basically allow self - monitoring by the water company . frankly , the Labour Government do sweet fa and we be clean it up now . let we have a look at the timescale that have be mention for the situation that lead to the ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Union . thing have not be do in Wales , where there be a Labour Government , so there be no change in policy there . meanwhile , the Conservative Government have get on with impose unlimited penalty on water company . that be why so many power be put into the Environment Act 2023 , and regulator be now use they . there be hardly any monitoring in 2010 , thank to Labour — the Scottish National party do not have a leg to stand on either — and it be the Conservatives who get the monitoring go . where Labour have weaken monitoring , we have increase it . on the assertion that the hon . Gentleman make about budget , he should be aware that the purpose of the permit , and of the fee that go with the permit , be to pay for those regular inspection . government funding , which we increase last year , be use when enforcement action need to be take , and that include take company to court . that be why there be an active criminal investigation under way now . frankly , it be the Conservatives who get the monitoring go and unveil the scale of this , while the Labour Government look the other way . I have no confidence in the plan that Labour have put forward . we be already get on with many of the action that it talk about , and that be why we will sort out the mess that the Labour Government leave behind . can we be more moderate in the language that we use ? I do not think that it have be appropriate , and hopefully we will hear no more of it . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . we all understand the long - term challenge of storm water overflow where heavy rainfall be inundate the system . over time , we will see more storm water tank , such as the 4 million litre tank that Yorkshire Water instal in Scarborough , but there can be no excuse for discharge when the weather be dry . some be down to human error or to mechanical failure , but many be down just to under - capacity in the system . as we address the problem , can we focus on the dry discharge and ensure that investment go where it will have the most effect : where the most concentrated sewage go into waterway ? my right hon . friend be right to point out some of the investment that be under way , but the storm overflow discharge reduction plan , which I anticipate will receive nearly £ 60 billion of investment from the water company , will prioritise where the big issue be . I think that be the right thing to do . I be also mindful of other potential environmental responsibility , particularly in area of conservation . we will continue to ensure that , as part of the plan , we get on and get into the detail . we be already do quite a lot of work with the water company , hold they to account and ensure that they get on and spend the money . along with the water company , one of the main source of water pollution in the south - west be the minority of livestock farmer who put silage , run - off from silage and slurry into local waterway , yet the Government have radically cut the number of inspection and there have be hardly any prosecution . why ? the right hon . Gentleman be a former Minister in DEFRA . I be not aware of what inspection be do when he be in office . what I do know be that we increase funding for farm inspection ; my understanding be that there be about 4 , 000 last year . the approach be target . sometimes farmer be not do it intentionally . we be help in different way , include by increase the funding for slurry infrastructure . through the environmental land management scheme we be increase incentive to help with thing such as barrier strip and buffer strip so that stock be keep far away . we be actively work with farmer . we want they to be able to do the right thing . enforcement be undertake — he will be aware of a recent case in Herefordshire — and we will continue to allow our regulator to make decision on criminal investigation independently , rather than the Government dictate they . I welcome the work of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State in this area . despite what have be say today , we have to recognise that this be the first Government to take the bull by the horn and actually do something about illegally discharge sewage , which have be happen for decade . I have witness it myself . I have recently be speak to Southern Water about a river that my constituency happen to be near . although I recognise that Southern Water be do its very good to do small trial around land drainage , frankly it be not do enough quickly enough . will the Secretary of State outline the power of the Environment Agency that she be strengthen in order to fine company such as Southern Water , which , as my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) say , be use opportunity in dry weather to dump sewage where that really should not be happen ? my right hon . friend be right to point out that we have take action and give power to the regulator . a very successful prosecution happen ; I believe Southern Water be fine £ 90 million in a recent case . we need to continue to work to get effective action . I have complete confidence in the Environment Agency in get on with the detailed work that we need to do to ensure that the water company stick to the law , and we continue to strengthen the law , include through the unlimited penalty that this House vote for . actually , I think it be only Government Members who go through the Division Lobby to pass those penalty . the Secretary of State will know of the concern from her own mailbag , as I certainly do from mine . my constituent be in touch with I week in , week out with concern about the River Lune or the beach at Fleetwood . my constituent and I would like to know what step the Secretary of State will take to ensure that when water company break the law they will be punish and bring to justice , and will not do it again ? I be conscious of the breakdown near Fleetwood early this year . to give some credit to United Utilities , it work at pace to try to fix the mechanical failure that have happen . we now have legislation that allow the Environment Agency to apply unlimited penalty . she will be aware that a live criminal investigation by the Environment Agency be under way against water company . it will then be for the court to decide the scale of the fine . we will continue to ensure that penalty be apply and clear instruction be give . we have have discussion with the Environment Agency . we need to get the problem fix , but water company should not try to do this on the cheap , and think that it be cheap just to pay a penalty than actually sort out the problem . I sit on the Bill Committee for the Environment Act 2021 , which create the oep . I also sit on the Environmental Audit Committee , which interview the now chair of the oep . it be Government Members who introduce the oep , enable she to do this work to find out the scale of the problem . when the report refer to the Government , it be not be party political ; it be refer to all government for the past 20 year or more . do my right hon . friend agree that we need to keep look at these report , rip off the plaster that we have start to rip off , and hold to the fire the foot of all the polluter that cause these problem in the first place ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . when we leave the European Union , we recognise the need to have suitable scrutiny , which be what be in place . clearly the OEP have not come to a conclusion about break the law . that be why it have ask for more information . that be its right and entitlement . that be what we legislate to allow it to do , and we will continue to comply with that . meanwhile , it will not distract we from get on with our plan for water and hold water company to account . water company have dump sewage more than 1 million time over the past three year . now we find out that instead of stand up to the water company , the Government seem to have be complicit in let they break the law . beyond the Government ' s own failure , have this sewage crisis not be drive by under - investment , while £ 72 billion be hand out to shareholder since privatisation ? be it not time to put an end to this racket and restore water as a proper public service ? I understand that the hon . member come from the very left wing of the Labour party , and that that will continue to be his mantra . I understand , however , that it be not the position of his party to nationalise water , because it recognise that about £ 190 billion - worth of investment have go into water infrastructure since privatisation . clearly the scale of what need to be do in the next few year be considerably great than we have see before . at the same time , back in 2006 we have one of the big dividend go , and the gearing of Thames Water be change . frankly , the Labour Government then do not do anything about it . that be key to one of the situation that we face at the moment , but meanwhile we will continue to get on . I be confident that with the Thames tideway tunnel opening next year we will have good sewage channelling and will be able to deal with that in London . the work continue , include thing such as nature - base management practice , in order to help in Yorkshire as well . I know that his water company be look into that too . 19 July last year be the hot day on record in the UK . temperature exceed 40 ° C in some place during a dry spell , yet water company that respond to a BBC investigation admit to so - call " dry spill " of sewage that day . the Environment Secretary be report as say that it " do seem extraordinary " , but that the Environment Agency " be the regulator " . give that it be the hot day , when people be inadvertently bathe in sewage , why do the Environment Secretary wash her hand of it ? I be conscious of the investigation that the BBC undertake . the Environment Agency and the Department do not agree with its assessment of the datum . that do not mean , of course , that there have not be sewage spill on dry day . that be why it be part of the investigation . it be part of fix the problem , and we will continue to do that . the Secretary of State know Gill Rider from history — the chair of Pennon Group , which own South West Water . I have hear what the Secretary of State have say , but surely the time have come to get these company and their leadership under control . South West Water be a disgrace . it be leak . it be treat its customer with utter contempt . Secretary of State , please sit on these company and make they do the job that they be mean to , which be to stop this now . unlimited penalty be available to the Environment Agency and there be already a criminal investigation under way . I know my hon . friend have secure a Westminster Hall debate next week to discuss it in further detail , and my hon . friend the water Minister will reply substantially to the many detailed point that I be sure he will raise . it be my constituent Mr Latimer who be responsible for the law change state that sewage should only be discharge during exceptional circumstance . he know , as we all know , that it be this Government who be actively enable the water company and regulator to get away with dumping sewage into our river and our ocean . why will the Secretary of State not admit that under this government , sewage dumping be no long the exception but the rule ? because the hon . Lady ' s assertion be simply not true . rather than just scaremongere , which be what we be hear again from the opposition , could we have a focus please on the quality of our water ? in Leigh - on - Sea and Southend West , the quality of our water have go up from 76 % in 2010 to 93 % and the vast majority of our beach be rate good or excellent . will my right hon . friend applaud the work of local group the Bluetits Chill Swimmers , run by Daniella Bee , and Philip Miller of Adventure Island , who be assist I in have regular sewage summit with Anglian Water ? we have extract a promise from Anglian Water to eliminate 75 % of use of our combine storm overflow five year ahead of the Government ' s target . be this local action not the sort of thing we should be do — not just scaremongere ? my hon . friend be right to praise the activity happen in her constituency , and the people of Southend should be congratulate on elect she to this House , because she be an avid campaigner for they . she recommend her part of the world for swim due to the designated beach , and I could do the same in my own constituency . I remind the House that when the Conservatives come in to power in 2010 , only half our swimming beach and designate bathing water be deem excellent , thank to whatever happen under Labour . now it be more than three in four , which show the progress we have make right around the country . I ask the Secretary of State this pertinent question : what do she say to the senior executive at Yorkshire Water , who , when I complain about the quality of the water in some of the river in Yorkshire , say , " Mr Sheerman , don ' t you realise that there be no river in our country that be fit to swim in ? " be it not the truth that the Secretary of State ' s pathetic performance today , and her use of the most vulgar language I have hear in this Chamber in all my year in this House , show that she be out of her depth , that she be incompetent and that she should resign immediately ? I look forward to the election in Huddersfield — the hon . Gentleman should look at some of his own speech . I do not know on what basis he have make that assertion , quote the chief executive of Yorkshire Water , but that be not the case — [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman can always contact I directly to give I the quotation and the source of the quotation . I look forward to receive it , and I will take the water company ' s chief executive to task if that be truly what she say . despite all we have hear from Labour , be it not the reality that in Government Labour do absolutely nothing on this issue , with no monitoring in place , and that it be this Government , as the OEP recognise , who be sort the problem through the plan for water , through record investment , and through monitoring , improve water in North West Norfolk and across the country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; he have a coastal constituency as well and will know the continue work to improve the quality of our designate bathing water and our water more broadly . there have be more stringent standard apply over the last decade . we continue to work to try to improve that and we will continue to get on with the job . the Secretary of State seem to have a weird amnesia about the past decade or so , so that there be a big leap from Labour be in government to she suddenly be in front of we today . I hope she do remember the many time , whether in the Environmental Audit Committee , the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee or the Environment Bill Committee , that I ask she about make sure the Office for Environmental Protection really have tooth , be independent and be respect by Government . I be concerned that there be already sign that the Government be try to undermine the work of the oep . will she assure we that she will respect the conclusion that it come to and act accordingly ? I will say that we set up the oep , we will comply with the information notice it have request and then we will see where its decision go from that . it be important that that institution continue to have the freedom we give it ; we will continue to respect that and to comply with its notice , as set out under the statute . the water Minister and I regularly visit a beach that have be subject to several environmental spill this August . when I check at the site , it be a storm overflow and not a combine sewage outlet . give that there be not enough rainfall to constitute an exceptional amount , can the Secretary of State advise I why the Environment Agency have not take enforcement action against South West Water and all the other water company that be spill sewage when there be no exceptional circumstance ? I understand from my hon . friend the water Minister that the Environment Agency be currently investigate the source of the pollution to help with its investigation . the right hon . Lady ' s Department issue a statement say that it do not " agree with the OEP ' s initial interpretation , " but will " continue to work constructively with the oep on this issue . " that seem like a contradiction to I . how do the Secretary of State plan to work constructively with the oep when her Department ' s statement demonstrate a complete disregard for environmental law ? the hon . Lady be incorrect . we absolutely respect the law — we introduce the Environment Act . we can disagree with initial assertion , but we will continue to ensure that we provide the information the OEP have request . I thank the Secretary of State for the renew determination to bring about improvement — it be clear that we need it . when we vote on this issue in the House , we be give assurance that these incident would not take place . it be clear that , while official may not agree with this investigation , there be still a real cause for concern . how do the Secretary of State intend to alleviate those concern and , more importantly , ensure that sewage release be regulate and safe ? I make this suggestion very respectfully : stop the dividend to the chief executive and director would be a method to encourage improvement by the water company , who seem reluctant to make they . I be conscious that the hon . Gentleman be a Member for a Northern Ireland constituency . the OEP ' s remit extend to Northern Ireland , although not to the Welsh Labour Government or the scottish SNP Government . investigation can be undertake — that be what we legislate for in this House — and unlimited penalty can be apply . that be true in England . we will continue to make sure that we do what we can not only to reduce these challenge , but to fix the long - term issue . we know that in London , for example , the Thames tideway tunnel have take a decade — that be the scale of the issue . the fact that we know about the scale of the issue right now be due to the Conservative Government have take action , while the Labour Government look the other way . the last time I ask about the dumping of sewage in our river in this Chamber , the Prime Minister agree with I that it be absolutely unacceptable . however , the OEP ' s investigation be a scandalous revelation that show the entire water and regulatory system be break . what do the Secretary of State think should happen to company , regulatory body and Government Departments that knowingly break the law ? we set up the oep and it have the power , thank to this Conservative Government , to get on with the role as it see fit . it be do so — it have start the investigation and ask for more information , and we will comply with that . I say to the hon . Lady , as I say at the start of my response to the urgent question , that this be completely unacceptable by the water company . that be why we be take action and get on with the job . we do not need lesson from Labour , who look away and do nothing . they be the people who be take to court by the European Commission for failure , failure , failure — thank to Labour . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I know that the Secretary of State be under great pressure today — she seem to be out of her depth in quite shallow water — but she misquote I . in a question I ask a few moment ago , I say a " senior executive of Yorkshire Water " ; I do not say " the chief executive of Yorkshire Water " . that be on the record and Hansard will show it . I want an apology from the Secretary of State . that stand on the record . [ interruption . ] Secretary of State , do you wish to respond ? far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I think that the hon . Gentleman say " the chief executive " . I hear now that he say a " senior executive " . but the point still stand : provide the quotation , provide the source , and I will take it up with that executive and the chief executive of Yorkshire Water , because , frankly , that be not acceptable . thank you very much , Secretary of State , for respond to the urgent question . we will now move on . asbestos ( National Register ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide for a national register of asbestos present in non - domestic premise and of the condition of that asbestos ; and for connected purpose . may I begin by thank Mesothelioma UK for all the fantastic work it do to support those live with the asbestos - relate cancer ? as well as provide access to mesothelioma clinical nurse specialist across the UK , that charity offer a range of support service and dedicated research to help patient live well and long live . I find its work invaluable a few year ago in this place , when my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) and I be try to get the Government into the sensible and correct place on the issue of compensation . I represent an area with many former steelworker , power station worker , docker and a few miner , so respiratory industrial disease be an issue that I know well , include from my close family . increasingly , the disease be not restrict to role that involve directly instal material with asbestos ; it also affect those who work in building with asbestos , such as teacher . indeed , teacher be more likely to die from mesothelioma than the general public — sadly , I have hear example of that from my constituent . a 2019 Government survey find that 80 . 9 % of participate school have asbestos on their estate , and although most have a plan for deal with it , that figure speak for itself . I thank in particular my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) , who , apart from be an excellent champion for her constituent , have do incredible work lead up to this 10 - minute rule motion , include her recent Westminster Hall debate on asbestos in the workplace . as most people will be aware , asbestos be a naturally occur mineral that be use extensively in building in the UK and around the world between the 1950 and 1980 . it can be find in ceiling tile , pipe insulation , floor , textured paint and boiler , and it be often mix with other material , which make determine its presence even more complex . in fact , asbestos be one of three material consider so hazardous that they require their own regulation , the other be radiation and lead . lead and radiation be tightly control , and although there have be a lot of work over the year to tighten regulation on asbestos — and , indeed , to ban it — many would say that it remain the poor relation of the three material in public policy term . the scale of the problem can not be underestimate . the Health and Safety Executive have say that between 210 , 000 and 400 , 000 building in the UK contain asbestos . other estimate suggest 6 million tonne of asbestos be spread across 1 . 5 million building in this country . asbestos be , of course , the single great cause of work - relate death in the UK . HSE estimate that more than 5 , 000 people die from asbestos - relate cancer each year , of whom half die from mesothelioma . government of both side have seek to address that issue . we have have ban on import , use , manufacture and supply . the Control of Asbestos Regulations 2012 provide a framework for work with asbestos in non - domestic premise . the regulation be welcome , as they place a requirement on a duty holder to assess the presence , condition and exposure risk of asbestos in non - domestic premise . the duty holder be require to maintain an up - to - date register and share it with anyone who may be at risk of exposure or of disturb asbestos - contain material . however , as welcome as those regulation and other intervention may be , there remain too many new mesothelioma case in the UK , and there be a clear trend of rise case among those who have work in building with asbestos , rather than among those who work directly with asbestos product and material . a report by Alpha Tracker on the condition of asbestos in school , hospital and home find that more than half of 1 . 3 million sample find to contain the material be already damage ; that 20 % of asbestos - contain material in hospital and healthcare setting have high damage ; and that 55 % of asbestos in school be in poor condition . we must therefore ask if the current approach be work and sufficient . the UK National Asbestos Register , a new social enterprise establish to help management and duty holder to manage the material , have identify five common failing in the current system . first , there be communication failure . contractor rarely see an asbestos register , or record be mislay or difficult to access . a contractor undertake what seem like minor work , for example , may be unaware there be acm in that building and that they might disturb they . secondly , information be provide in a format that be difficult to understand , poorly arrange or too lengthy , mean that document be often incomprehensible . thirdly , register be not update as work be undertake , mean that information be out of date , or the information be hold on different database . as contractor change , information can be lose . fourthly , the current system often result in there be no evidence of compliance or confirmation that any register have be access and read by a contractor or anybody undertake work . fifthly , although asbestos register contain the same basic datum , they be arrange in different format , which make they more difficult to understand . Andrew Paten , one of the founder of the UK National Asbestos Register , say : " a standard , common format would allow everyone to become familiar with they and competent in their use , regardless of the property . " as highlight in the Work and Pensions Committee ' s " the Health and Safety Executive ' s approach to asbestos management " report , and in Mesothelioma UK ' s " Don ' t let the Dust Settle " campaign , the introduction of a national asbestos register would go a long way towards solve those issue , and be necessary if the management - in - situ approach of recent decade , which make good sense in many way , as oppose to blanket removal , be to be maintain . I believe that a national register of the type propose be absolutely crucial . I recognise that question and concern will be raise about how such a national register would operate . it would bring together all the exist information on building with acm into one coherent database — as I have say , it be currently piecemeal and fragmented — not only make it easy for duty holder to record and maintain information about asbestos in their building , but make the information more easily accessible for those who require it . there would be wide benefit to a national register . it would help to support a long - term strategic approach to manage asbestos . if we have learn one thing in recent week in respect of concrete , it be that access to information and clear datum be absolutely necessary when manage any risk in a building access by the public . furthermore , a national register would increase public awareness of the harmful effect of asbestosis , something that Mesothelioma UK believe be crucial to protect future generation and for well treatment and care for those who suffer from asbestos - relate condition . such a register would also ensure that the Health and Safety Executive could use that database to well target and improve its own enforcement effort in this area . as I have say , recent issue with school building condition in relation to concrete have show we that we need to be proactive , rather than reactive , when it come to manage risk of this kind . at the moment , there be no simple and cost - effective way to reverse our legacy of use these material in non - residential building , but we can not ignore the fact that we have a grow number of mesothelioma case among those who have work not just with , but within , building that contain those material . that be why well asbestos management be need , and a national register be key to provide that . question put and agree to . order , that Andrew Percy , Jane Hunt , Tracey Crouch , Sir Stephen Timms , Martin Docherty - Hughes , Ian Lavery , Holly Mumby - Croft and Ben Lake present the Bill . Andrew Percy accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 354 ) . procurement BILL [ LORDS ] : PROGRAMME ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Procurement Bill [ Lords ] for the purpose of supplement the order of 9 January 2023 ( procurement Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) ) . consideration of Lords Message ( 1 ) proceeding on the Lords Message shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Steve Double . ) question agree to . procurement Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Lords message Schedule 7 - discretionary exclusion ground I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 102b . it be an honour once again to open the debate on this important Bill , which I be delighted to say be now so close to receive Royal Assent . the Bill be a key Brexit benefit , deliver a simple , more transparent procurement framework that will benefit small business and meet the need of UK supplier and contracting authority . colleague in the Chamber will also , I hope , remember that , when the Bill be last debate in this House , we offer significant new measure to protect the UK ' s public procurement supply chain from threat to national security . those include new ground to add supplier to the debarment list for particular type of contract that will allow we to ban risky supplier from bid for those contract ; the creation of a new national security unit for procurement that will provide dedicated resource in the Cabinet Office to scrutinise national security risk in procurement ; and a commitment to publish a timetable for removal of surveillance equipment supply by company subject to the national intelligence law of China from Government Department sensitive site . early this week in the other place , we go far : my noble friend Baroness Neville - Rolfe provide an official clarification of the definition of sensitive site and commit to an annual write report detail progress . I be sure this House will welcome our additional agreement and agree that they demonstrate the Government ' s unwavere dedication to tackle these issue seriously . I will deal today with one amendment that the other place send back to this House , on the subject of organ harvesting . let I begin by say that I think all side of this House be in complete agreement that organ harvesting be a dreadful practice that have no place in our supply chain . the question before we today be whether Lords amendment 102b be the right or necessary one to make , give other provision in the Bill . in Committee in this House , the Government remove a discretionary exclusion ground for supplier engage in force organ harvesting . the other place have subsequently propose an amendment in lieu , with some modification of the original amendment . this new version of the Lords amendment do not cover unethical activity relate to human tissue ; it do , however , still cover force organ harvesting and deal in device , equipment or service relate to force organ harvesting . I urge this House to reject this amendment for a number of reason . first , as I have say previously , I do not believe that the amendment be necessary as , crucially , organ harvesting be already deal with under exist provision in the Procurement Bill . under the Bill , any supplier fail to adhere to exist ethical or professional standard that apply in their industry , include those relate to the removal , storage and use of human tissue , could be exclude on the ground of professional misconduct . it be worth add at this point that , as far as his Majesty ' s Government be aware , no supplier in the UK public sector have be involve in force organ harvesting . this mean that it be very unlikely that any of our public money be be spend on that terrible practice . as note above , however , if such a situation do arise , the exclusion for professional misconduct would apply . secondly , the amendment have significant consequence for contracting authority . it extend to supplier " deal in any device or equipment or service relate to force organ harvesting . " that be an incredibly broad provision that would be extremely difficult for contracting authority and supplier to verify in respect of all supply chain and customer basis . if there be any doubt about whether that discretionary ground apply , local authority or NHS trust would need to undertake significant due diligence to satisfy themselves that the entire supply chain and the end user of all good provide by supplier — potentially include oxygen mask , it equipment and so on — be not use in these terrible practice . it would mean that a small business tender for Government contract would need to understand where their customer might be use or sell their product , to enable they to genuinely and legitimately confirm that they be not subject to this ground . more generally , the amendment would create excessive bureaucracy , require each and every supplier bid across the thousand of contract award by contracting authority each year to declare that they be not guilty of force organ harvesting , when we know that there be no evidence of that horrific practice occur in UK public sector supply chain . we believe that such a burden would be unjustified when the Bill already cover this issue . thirdly , the Government be already take step to tackle the issue of organ harvesting . we have be explicit that the overseas organ trade , or complicity with it , will not be tolerate . for example , by virtue of the Health and Care Act 2022 , it be already an offence to travel outside of the UK to purchase an organ . in addition , the Government continue to monitor and review evidence relate to report of force organ harvesting in China , and maintain a dialogue with lead non - governmental organisation and international partner on this very important issue . this Bill create new rule for supplier and contracting authority that will hopefully stay on the statute book for many decade to come . I apologise for be slightly delay , Mr Deputy Speaker : I do not see this debate pop up on the annunciator . I rush to ask a question about this topic . forgive I . on the issue of organ harvesting , I understand the difficulty with this particular amendment , so while I be instinctively supportive of what the Lords be try to do , I understand the Government ' s argument . however , there be a way to tighten this up . Organ harvesting be take place in China — it be a regular occurrence — but I would not rely too much on declaration from supply chain . we have already unearth the problem that supply chain be under no obligation to do the due diligence that would enable they to know whether company , or the people they be trade with , have any involvement with organ harvesting . tighten that up would be great . on that basis , do my hon . friend accept that we now have to make sure that China be on the enhance tier of the foreign agent registration scheme ? that would really put power in the Government ' s hand to make sure that supply chain be properly check . will he say to our right hon . friend the Prime Minister and to all those concerned that it be time we do so ? China be a genuine threat to we , industrially as well as politically . my right hon . friend be an expert on these matter . I thank he for his intervention — I have to say that I be quite surprised that he be not sit behind I when I stand up in the first place , but I be delighted to see he in the Chamber now . I be sure that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister will have hear his remark and will consider they carefully . this be obviously a procurement Bill , and we be do our good to create the post - Brexit framework that will give we an enhance ability to improve all aspect of procurement in our society . in Committee and on Report in this House , we think it be necessary to tighten up national security consideration to make sure that foreign hostile actor could not get involve in public procurement . we have — as my right hon . friend know , because he give we good advice — take step to make sure that we remove technology that come from those hostile actor from sensitive site . on the broad point he make at the end of his comment , that be beyond my pay grade , but I have no doubt that those above my pay grade have hear what he have say . this be an excellent bill . it be a tribute to the official who have work on it and to my predecessor who work on it in the Cabinet Office . I therefore urge the House to reject the amendment make by the other House and support the Government ' s motion . I call the shadow Minister . come in as I do at the tail end of the passage of this Bill , I would like to take this opportunity to thank my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) , for all her work on the Bill , and to say that I look forward to work constructively with the Minister . turn to the Government motion to disagree with Lords amendment 102b , we can all agree that force organ harvesting — a practice involve the removal of organ from a living prisoner that result in their death or near death — be abhorrent . the debate on this Government motion be about whether there should be a specific clause in the Bill to make it clear that we do not want to see a single penny of taxpayer ' money go to any company link to this practice , or whether that be adequately cover by the concept of professional misconduct that can be use against serious unethical behaviour . we hear powerful speech in the other place from Lord Alton of Liverpool and Lord Hunt of Kings Heath , who make compelling argument for the inclusion in the Bill of the measure against force organ harvesting and provide evidence of the practice take place in China . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Vauxhall and for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) for all they have do to highlight the issue . furthermore , the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights have state that serious human right violation have be commit in the Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region : " allegation of … torture … include force medical treatment … be credible " . this be a very current issue , and we would like to see specific mention of it in the Bill . first , include a specific reference to force organ harvesting in the Bill will highlight the issue and send a message to potential supply company to make specific check that they be not inadvertently in any way associate with the abhorrent business of force organ harvesting . secondly , although the Minister have say that force organ harvesting be already cover by the ground of professional misconduct , which include serious unethical behaviour , specific mention of it in the Bill will highlight to those undertaking procurement to be particularly vigilant in respect of any potential association of supply company with this appalling practice . thirdly , make specific mention of force organ harvesting help to send a clear message to China and anywhere else it may occur that the practice will not be tolerate and that there will be economic consequence . the Minister have object to have specific mention of force organ harvesting because it mean additional paperwork , and we all want to cut down the amount of paperwork that company have to deal with . however , I would suggest in this case that a small amount of additional work be well worth it if it send a strong message of condemnation , strengthen awareness of the issue and hasten the end of this abhorrent practice . the opposition support the position take by the other place of include the measure on force organ harvesting in the Bill , and will therefore vote against the Government ' s motion to disagree with the Lords amendment . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be a pleasure to be here talk about Lords amendment for the second day in a row . I be glad to see the Procurement Bill make progress and get towards become legislation . as the Minister have comment on a number of occasion , we have not get to the place that he want in relation to his conversation with the Scottish Government about the Bill . to be fair , we have also not get to the place we want for the Bill . neither of we be entirely happy with the position that have be reach , but I do appreciate the work that have be do to communicate between the government on this . both try to find a compromise solution , but it be just impossible on this occasion to come to one that we be both happy with . specifically on the Government motion to disagree with Lords amendment 102b on force organ harvesting , the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) have lay out a number of very important point and I do not want to go over those . the Minister have say there be an absence of evidence that there be any force organ harvesting in any of the supply chain involve in UK procurement , and I do appreciate that that be case . however , if the Government be able to find out that there be an absence of evidence on this , surely it should not be beyond the mean of those procure or of company supply or buy thing that be bid for Government procurement contract to find out that their supply chain be not involved . if the Government be able to find out these thing , surely those company should . the point make by the hon . member for Llanelli about raise awareness be incredibly important . we have work very hard with company through the change in various act , include improve company ' corporate social responsibility and require they to make modern slavery statement . we have work hard to ensure that company be take their social responsibility seriously , and I therefore do not think that this measure be unreasonable . it would not apply to all company ; it apply only to company bid for Government contract . surely we want company bid for Government contract to ensure that they be as within the law as possible , uphold human right and demonstrate corporate social responsibility . I do not think it be unreasonable for we to ask those company to look into their supply chain and consider whether they be financially support organisation or company that be involve in force organ harvesting . I think it be reasonable for we to ask they to spend a little bit of time do this if they expect to take on Government contract . actually , it be simple even than that . in America , first , it be an offence for a company to have falsify , knowingly or unknowingly , its declaration on supply chain . secondly , the US Government use company such as Oritain that use criminal science to test where product be make and whether declaration be correct , and they be therefore able to enforce they . what be happen be that those supply chain be now be rigorously declare by american company that do not wish to lose Government business . it would not be too much to ask the Government to do spot check , use such company that be available to they , and I have recommend it to the Foreign Office , not that that really matter . I think the right hon . Member make a reasonable and proportionate suggestion . although we disagree on lot of thing , I be very surprised to find myself agree with he for the second time this week on this . I do appreciate his suggestion , and I hope those on his Front Bench be listen to the advice he have give . I be not go to test the House ' s patience by drag this out . we will be vote with the Labour party against the Government ' s motion to disagree , because we believe that the more stringent control be something it be absolutely reasonable for we to ask of company . this be not for all company , as I have say , but just for those that hope to get Government contract . in this week of all week , the House need to show that our democracy be strong and that we be not intimidate by other nation . the chinese Communist party have show that it hold our democracy in contempt . today we have an opportunity to put tough talk into action . force organ harvesting be a systemic trade that be take place on an industrial scale in China . up to 100 , 000 of its citizen be butcher each year for their organ . this be a state - sponsor crime against humanity . the two or three organ harvest from a healthy young adult be worth over £ 500 , 000 . evidence of this crime have be extensively investigate by the China and Uyghur tribunal chair by Sir Geoffrey Nice KC , the former lead prosecutor at the Hague . at the tribunal , evidence be hear of systematic medical testing of thousand of prisoner of conscience , allow the oppressive regime to create an organ bank . I have speak extensively on the horror that have occur due to force organ harvesting in previous stage of the Bill , so now I will address some of the concern that the Government express in the other place when oppose the amendment . the Government claim that force organ harvesting will be cover by exist provision of the Bill . certain conduct will absolutely not be cover by the exist provision on professional misconduct . supply chain can be complex , and improper conduct may often be one step too far remove from the crime for professional misconduct element to be make out . try to cover all the different ethical and professional misconduct regulation across a multitude of industry be not practical . only by have a specific provision for force organ harvesting will we ensure that british taxpayer ' money be not fund this horrific trade . otherwise , it will be all too easy for company to hide behind complex supply chain . the second issue that the Government raise in the other place be that there be no evidence of UK organisation facilitate force organ harvesting , yet there be company with substantial operation in the UK provide immunosuppressive drug for transplant in China . there be evidence of company dramatically raise their stake in the chinese market over the past few year . source on the ground claim that CellCept , an immunosuppressive drug , have be use on chinese prisoner for transplant . there be no evidence that those individual consent . that be why a clear and direct provision relate to force organ harvesting be necessary . UK taxpayer ' money should not inadvertently be support this inhumane trade perpetrate by the Chinese Communist party . there must be the ability or at least the option to stop it . the amendment be not ask for draconian action . it simply give discretionary power to exclude a supplier from a procurement contract if there be a connection to force organ harvesting . that would give the Government the ability to act to prevent the complicity of UK taxpayer in force organ harvesting . the amendment must be see in the context of our country ' s wide relationship with China . the Government have extensively talk tough about stand up for our value against China . China be a trading partner that we can not ignore or close ourselves off to , but that do not mean that we should not take such opportunity as this amendment to do right by our value and by humanity . only a couple of day ago , the Prime Minister tell the chinese Prime Minister that attempt to undermine british democracy be completely unacceptable and that we will defend our democracy and our security . the amendment give we the opportunity to use our democracy — the democracy that they seem to hold in contempt — to stand up for our value against China . I urge colleague across the House to take this opportunity to send a clear message to the Chinese Communist party , in this week of all week , that this House will stand up for our value by keep Lords amendment 102b in the Bill . with the leave of the House , I thank all member who have make point in this important debate . let I remind colleague that the exclusion ground in the Bill have be select in the area of great risk to public procurement . I return to the point I make at the start : there be fortunately no single know instance of such practice in the UK public procurement chain . we do not see it as a great risk to public procurement . I welcome the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) to her place and her new role , and I look forward to debate with she and work with she in the week and month ahead . the hon . Lady mention the World Health Organisation . the Government regularly discuss allegation of organ harvesting with the WHO , and also with other international partner and human right NGOs . minister in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office write to the WHO in Geneva to encourage it to give careful consideration to the finding of the China tribunal on organ harvesting in March 2020 . I very much do not want the House to get the impression that we do not take this seriously . it be a feature of our diplomacy and our work , where we be co - operate with like - minded nation that abhor this practice . a number of member raise point about professional misconduct . the exist provision relate to professional misconduct apply where supplier fail to adhere to ethical or professional standard that apply in their industry or where the supplier be engage in professional misconduct that bring into question their integrity . I assure the House that practice involve the removal , storage and use of human tissue that be either illegal or contrary to ethical professional standard will be cover . it be therefore unnecessary to single out that particular practice in the Bill . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) speak on a number of issue . it remain a sadness for the Government that the Scottish Government choose not to be part of this Bill , leave Scotland out of this new procurement regime and deprive small and medium - sized enterprise in Scotland of the advantage that will come . they will also sit outside the new security measure that we have introduce , but that be a matter for the Scottish Government , and I hope that scottish voter be listen and that as this Bill go through they realise the opportunity that their Government have choose to deprive they of . the hon . Lady raise an issue about the scope of Government contract . we be deal with many contract from many different layer throughout public procurement , which could be such thing as grass - cut service in a local authority . with the amendment , we would be ask small and medium - sized enterprise to conduct a level of diligence that go way beyond their need and expertise . that be a disproportionate burden to place on they . if we put too many burden on small and medium - sized enterprise , we may discourage those business from apply for public contract , which be one of the precise and specific aim of the Bill . we have £ 300 billion - worth of public procurement every year . I want to see small and medium - sized enterprise in England , Wales and Northern Ireland get a big bite of that pie , as I be sure do you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I understand that SNP Members will vote against this Bill that they be not part of , which I be afraid speak to their peculiar constitutional mindset . to the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , I remind he that if anybody falsify their procurement declaration , that would be ground for exclusion under the Bill . we therefore believe that that point be cover off . I commend the hon . member for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) again on everything she have do to shine a light on these terrible crime . she be always at the forefront of these debate and ensure that the plight of people in China be hear in the House . to her point , I say again that if we be to specify this one crime , of which we have find no evidence in UK supply chain , we would also be invite a long list cover every conceivable misconduct in a vain attempt to provide certainty on specific issue . that would create a large bureaucratic burden , which be precisely what we be try to get away from in the Bill . however , I reassure she again that have look at this over and over again , we believe that the exist professional misconduct exclusion ground will cover that and help contract authority to do their bit to ensure that we do not have supplier in our supply chain who be involve in those abhorrent practice . I hope that we can move this vital Bill a step close to Royal Assent . the House have make its view clear once before , and I ask that it make its view clear a second time . question put , that the House disagree with Lords amendment 102b . the House proceed to a Division . order . a deferred Division be go on in the No Lobby . that will be pause while this division take place and will resume after it be over , with injury time of about 10 minute so that those who have not vote in the deferred Division will get an opportunity to do so . Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies James davy mim davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Margaret Hodge Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Robert Largan Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Kate Hollern George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ben Lake David Lammy Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Colleen Fletcher Christian Wakeford the House have divide : Ayes 274 , Noes 194 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 102b disagree to . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 102b ; that Alex Burghart , Julie Marson , James Daly , Peter Gibson , Nia Griffith , Chris Elmore and Kirsty Blackman be member of the Committee ; that Alex Burghart be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Scott Mann . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill consideration of Lords message I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 161b . if that Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . Dame Margaret Hodge have table two manuscript amendment to Lords amendment 161B , which have be select by Mr Speaker . paper will be distribute as soon as possible . the deferred Division have now resume in the No Lobby and injury time have be add , but member do not have long . after clause 46 - Register of member : information to be include and power to obtain it I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 23b and 23c . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : lord amendment 151b and 151C , Government motion to disagree , and government motion to insist on amendment 151A . lord amendment 161b , Government motion to disagree , manuscript amendment ( a ) and ( b ) , and Government motion to insist on amendment 161A . it be always a pleasure to speak with right hon . and hon . member on the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , which they will know be close to my heart and contain many vital measure for which I have long campaign . the Bill will give we the power we need to crack down on those who abuse our open economy , while ensure that the vast majority of law - abide business can grow and flourish . I be grateful that both Houses have reach agreement on several issue , include those relate to the register of overseas entity and on remove the extension of the failure to prevent offence to money laundering . however , we be here today as agreement be still outstanding on a handful of remain issue . I urge this House to accept the Government amendment , to settle those remain topic and ensure that we can proceed to Royal Assent and implementation of these important reform without delay . I will now speak to those remain topic . in the other place , the Government table two amendment on nominee shareholder — amendment 23b and 23c , in lieu of Commons amendment 23a , and in response to Lord Vaux ' s amendment 23 on this topic from Report stage in the other place . the Government ' s amendment will allow the Secretary of State to make regulation to make further provision for the purpose of identify person with significant control in case where share be hold by a nominee . this will allow the Government to work with relevant stakeholder to target the regulation in an effective and focus way that do not impose disproportionate burden . member of the other place agree with the Government ' s proposal and I trust that member of this House will therefore agree with it today . lord amendment 151b and 151C would apply the exemption from the failure to prevent fraud offence to micro - entity only , rather than the Government ' s position of exclude all small and medium - sized enterprise . the Government appreciate that Lord Garnier have move close to the Government ' s position in agree to the principle of apply a threshold . however , our position remain that such an amendment would still incur significant cost to business . reduce the exemption threshold to only micro - entity would increase one - off cost for business from around £ 500 million to £ 1 . 5 billion . the annual recurrent cost would increase from £ 60 million to over £ 192 million . where do those figure come from ? we use very similar analysis to that use for the failure to prevent bribery and failure to prevent tax evasion offence . we have use a common methodology . I have not see any figure that contradict our figure here , but in my view — have run a business and deal with some of the failure to prevent bribery provision — there be no doubt that there be significant cost . there may be external consultant to bring in , for example . even if one be compliant , one might not know whether one be compliant , so there be definite associate cost to ensure that reasonable effort be make to prevent fraud , as it would be in this case . those cost would still be disproportionately share by small business owner , when law enforcement can attribute and prosecute fraud more easily in these small organisation ; and , as I have set out before , we must be mindful of the cumulative impact on sme across multiple government requirement and regulation . in all the work I have do in the past from the Back Benches on failure to prevent , it be invariably the case that all case involve large business , not sme . large company have the resource and specialist expertise to cope with additional burden , whereas small business often have to dedicate a significant amount of time and resource , often pay for external professional advice to assess what new rule would mean for they . that be the case even where they subsequently assess that they already have adequate control in place . that be time and resource that could otherwise have be use to grow and generate wealth for their business and job for their staff . the Government be extremely mindful of the pressure on company of all size , include sme , and therefore do not feel it be appropriate to place this new unnecessary burden on over 450 , 000 business . I therefore urge member of this House to support the Government motion to disagree with the Lords amendment , to ensure that we take a proportionate approach and do not impose unnecessary measure that would curb economic growth . turn to Lords amendment 161b , make by Lord Faulks , on cost protection for law enforcement in civil recovery case , the Government remain of the view that the amendment would be a significant departure from the loser pay principle and therefore should not be rush into without careful consideration . there be no clear evidence that such change would help to achieve their intended aim of increase the capacity of law enforcement to take on more civil recovery case . there have be no adverse cost ruling against an enforcement authority carry out this type of civil recovery in the past six year . cost be just one of many factor that determine whether law enforcement will take on a case . for example , the evidence available to pursue a case , particularly where evidence be require from overseas , often prove more vital to an operational decision . there be already a number of way in which an enforcement agency ' s liability to legal cost can be protect under the civil procedure rule in England and Wales . for instance , rule 44 . 2 give the court discretion as to the payment of cost by either party , include whether they be payable to another party , the amount , and when they be payable . in addition , a cost - cap order can be apply for under rule 3 . 19 to limit any future cost that a party may recover under a later cost order . if we be to introduce further legislation , we must consider what gap this be try to fill . we should also consider civil liberty and property right that underpin our economy . we will potentially be hand huge power to the state , which could be hold over an individual . the Government recognise the potential merit of reform , which be why we have add to the Bill a statutory commitment to review the payment of cost in civil recovery case in England and Wales by enforcement authority , and to publish a report on the finding before Parliament within 12 month . I therefore hope that member of this House will agree with the Government ' s position today . in conclusion , I encourage this House to agree with the Government ' s position on the outstanding Lords amendment . it be vital that we achieve Royal Assent without delay , so that we can proceed to implement the important reform in the Bill as quickly as possible . it be a great honour to speak for the Opposition on behalf of myself and my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) . I pay tribute to my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) . I be also grateful to my right hon . friend the Members for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) and for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) and many other across the House who have play such an important role in get the Bill to this point . by the Government ' s own definition : " economic crime refer to a broad category of activity involve money , finance or asset , the purpose of which be to unlawfully obtain a profit or advantage for the perpetrator or cause loss to other . " it pose a threat to our country ' s national security , our institution and our economy , and cause serious harm to our citizen and society . failure to act allow criminal to benefit from the proceed of their crime and to fund further criminality . in the most extreme case , we have see the funding of organise crime group , terrorist activity , drug dealing and people traffic . economic crime have many victim . for too long , the Government have turn a blind eye to corruption and dirty money , allow russian illicit finance to flood into our country and let Putin ' s crony stash ill - get gain and even recycle the proceed of crime into luxury property across our city . More than two third of English and Welsh property hold by foreign shell company do not report their true owner . research by the London School of Economics and Warwick University show that the register of overseas entity be not fully effective . for 71 % of those property , essential information about their beneficial owner remain miss or publicly inaccessible , despite the register of overseas entity . it be not enough , and we need more action . after the Grenfell Tower fire disaster , which claim 72 life , we have learn more about freeholder hide behind offshore trust and labyrinthine company structure to make it impossible for leaseholder to uncover who be responsible for replace dangerous flammable cladding . hundred of thousand of people across the country be live in fear of Grenfell - style fire in unsafe block , while some owner hide abroad under company structure that help they to dodge pay for replacement cladding by set up company and trust in overseas territory , lack transparency . our Government and our citizen must be able to access information about who own what , and where responsibility lie . this legislation be long overdue . as far back as 2018 , the then Security Minister , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , be report to have say that the BBC hit series " McMafia " be " very close to the truth " and condemn the " impunity with which some of these people operate and the brutality of it " . he promise new power to crack down on gangster , criminal and corrupt member of the global elite , with the full force of Government to be use against they . while some step have be take , it take Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine for the Government to step up and introduce further legislation . the Government have delay legislation for too long , and in that time money have be lose , economic crime have persist , and the UK economy have once again lose out . shamefully , our city — our capital — have take on the reputation of clean up much of the world ' s dirty money . the illegal russian invasion of Ukraine have merely highlight a shameful situation that campaigner have long decry . for year the UK have be awash with cash from kleptocrat and oppressive regime . Transparency International UK have highlight that £ 6 . 7 billion worth of property have be buy with the use of suspicious wealth . I recently visit Ukraine , where I witness the terrible impact of the russian aggression on the civilian population , who be constantly live in fear of airstrike . it be sicken to think that the people who be responsible for these atrocity today could be enjoy luxury apartment and house in Belgravia and Mayfair , just a stone ' s throw from this House . however , it be not just the Kremlin ; as the Times have report , more than £ 200 million - worth of UK property be own by the child of notorious ruler and their henchman from fail state and autocracy around the world . the cost of economic crime be as much as £ 350 billion . there be much to do . law enforcement must be back up ; we must have the transparency that justice demand , and send a clear signal that there can not be dark corner where kleptocrat can stash their money . the Bill be a starting point , not an end point . we will be hold the Government ' s foot to the fire to ensure that this legislation make an actual difference . crucially , tackle economic crime require support for key institution such as the National Crime Agency , his Majesty ' s Revenue and the Customs Crown Prosecution Service . it be not enough just to introduce legislation ; we need enforcement , and we need these institution to be properly resource and support . we have have the fincen file , the Panama paper and the Paradise paper , as well as numerous inquiry by Select Committees — include the Treasury Committee , on which I serve for a number of year — but we have see only incremental change , which be very frustrating for many member on both side of the House . further action be need to ensure transparency in respect of the ownership of UK property by overseas company , and on compensation for victim of economic crime . there remain huge gap . however , we welcome the change that the Government have make in relation to strategic lawsuit against public participation , which have be work on by a number of member . we support Lords amendment 151b and 151C , and welcome Lord Garnier ' s focus on the failure to prevent fraud in non - micro entity . we also support Lords amendment 161b , table by Lord Faulks . as he have explain , subsection ( 2 ) should state that the court should not normally make an order " that any cost of proceeding relate to a case to which this section apply " , and so on . my right hon . friend the Member for Barking have table an amendment to that Lords amendment , which have be accept , and we accept the Lords amendment on that basis . this Bill be almost over the line . it have be improve since Ministers first embark on it . however , there be much more to be do . we hope we can ensure that enforcement take place once it be on the statute book , so that dirty money can be expose , illegal asset can be seize , and action be take against those who be guilty of economic crime . we must not have further delay in push for transparency and action in tackle economic crime . this be an important Bill and there be much good in it , but I be afraid that a number of area require further attention . now be not the time for discursive speech , but I regret to say that notwithstanding the good in the Bill , the Government have fall into error in relation to the two Lords amendment that they seek to reverse . let I say first that while a measure to deal with " failure to prevent " offence be a good idea , this measure be too widely draw . the Minister make a point about the burden of cost on small business , but the definition of a medium - sized business be significant : the risk be less to do with the size of a business than with where it do its business , and also its corporate structure . one of the important thing we have learn from the United States be that " failure to prevent " offence be not simply about prosecute , important though that is , but also about change corporate behaviour . I do not hear a word about that in the Minister ' s speech , and I think it might be well to reflect on it again . Lord Garnier table an amendment to compromise on micro - entity ; perhaps we should think again about a third tier , consist of medium - sized as oppose to small entity . that would not be unreasonable , give that many medium - sized entity do significant work abroad where there be some risk , and give that the cost be tax - deductible from profit . I urge the Government to think again , because have do so much good in the Bill , it will be a shame if we weaken its enforcement by widen the net too much . as for the cost cap , when the Minister say that no prosecution have be bring yet , he do not add that that be because of their chilling effect . People will not risk bring prosecution if their budget be go to be erode after the event by cost be award against they . only yesterday , in the House of Commons , I have the pleasure of meet Bill Browder , who have set out very clearly why that have be the case for a number of year . the Serious Fraud Office try to bring a prosecution a few year ago and get its finger burn , and there have be few prosecution since then . this be about behaviour rather than outcome . I have to say — with apology to the Minister , whom I like and respect — that the Government have take an unduly restrictive and literalist approach to these matter . it would be far well to find compromise — to think again , go back to the Lords , and see whether there be somewhere between Lord Garnier ' s position and that of the Government . perhaps that third tier of the medium - sized entity be a way around this . the Government be commit to a review of cost cap in 12 month ' time , but , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) say the last time this come up , what be there to review ? the evidence be there : cost cap be chilling . as the Minister will see if he read the evidence give to the Cambridge economic crime summit — at which I have the pleasure of speak last week — it be overwhelmingly clear that not a single one of the expert could understand the Government ' s position on this , so I ask they please to think again about it as well . I strongly very much with what the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) say . let we just agree with the Lords . let we get on with this . let we do this legislation , and do it properly . let I say first that it be important for we to have as much information as possible about those who own company . it be clear from all the evidence that have come before we that the lack of such information cause people to find way of hide their money , and the UK have become a magnet for that . the Minister have suggest that there will be a significant cost to business , but business be already do work on failure to prevent bribery . as Lord Garnier say on Monday , there be a clear read - across : it would be easy to add fraud to the current provision . it would not be difficult , and it would bring about an economic benefit . the Minister also suggest that economic growth would be hamper in some way , but he himself have say that " a corporate offence of failure to prevent economic crime and money laundering would reduce the amount of money that be illegally shift out of the UK into foreign jurisdiction and increase the amount of tax that be pay . " — [ Official Report , 22 February 2020 ; Vol . 672 , c . 220 . ] why do the Minister now disagree with himself ? why do he disagree with statement that he have make in the past ? he know that this be an important measure , and that this be an issue that we can deal with here today and it will be do . we will not have to come back to it , we will not have to keep debate it , and the Minister will be able to see that he have finish it off and do a good job . on the issue of adverse cost , I agree with what Bill Browder say in his evidence to the Bill Committee . by not introduce such a measure , we be inhibit law enforcement when it come to economic crime . we know that those on the other side of the equation who want to hide their money have plenty of it to throw at the good lawyer and at the good accountant to make thing look a particular way . if we be to be in this fight , we need to give the law enforcement agency the resource that they require , and cost capping be a key element of that . as I say the previous time we debate these matter , there be no need for a review . we need to get on with thing . an election be come , and we do not know when we will pass this way again . the Minister should accept the Lords amendment , and get on with the work . I shall be brief . the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) repeat her phrase of last week — and , indeed , we have pass this way again . I will resist the temptation to be too biblical today ; I will simply reiterate to the my hon . friend the Minister the point that I make last week . Lord Garnier have move on the position in the Lords and offer an olive branch to the Government , in the sense that this be a different amendment . it rightly now afford what , in the opinion of many of we , will be great protection for business . what be be ignore in this debate be the fact that business that take reasonable measure will not be the subject of a prosecution or investigation . business that be not within this regime will not have that protection , so there be a cogent argument that fail to extend the " failure to prevent " offence to more business would leave they less well protect . I pray in aid the excellent speech by Lord Garnier , and in particular his reference to the guidance that be issue to the Bribery Act 2010 , which state : " to a certain extent the level of risk will be link to the size of the organisation and the nature and complexity of its business , but size will not be the only determine factor . some small organisation can face quite significant risk and will need more extensive procedure than their counterpart face limited risk . however , small organisation be unlikely to need procedure that be as extensive as those of a large multi - national organisation . " Herein lie the point . the Government at that point be take the view that it be the extent of external risk that matter , not the size of the enterprise , which beg the question : what on earth be we do here ? why this change ? why this change from the policy of a Conservative Government , which be echo in the tax evasion " failure to prevent " offence of 2017 ? with the great of respect to my hon . friend the Minister , whom I respect utterly — he know that I share his passion for reform in this area — it be no good citing at the last minute figure that I simply do not accept have the veracity that he claim they do . a lot of the measure have already be take by business deal with tax evasion and bribery , and I say again that this be not fraud in general ; this be fraud with an intent to benefit the entity — the company — which be a different beast altogether from fraud in general . secondly , on the cost cap , Lord Faulks be absolute right to ask : if not now , when ? the reason that there have not be many case be that there have definitely be a dampening effect on authority bring these civil proceeding . the intention in the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 be for a lot more use of part 5 in civil proceeding , but we have see that vanishingly irregularly . we need more of those in order to burnish Britain ' s reputation as a centre of clean money . I have listen carefully to my right hon . and learn Friend ' s point . he say a few second ago that this would relate only to fraud that benefit the body concern . paragraph 1 ( b ) of Lords amendment 151 also cover the body or an associate within that body provide service , so this be not just about the benefit to the organisation itself . I will take that qualification . I be seek a short cut because time be brief . my hon . friend be right to mention the agency point , but it be still a much narrow ambit of the offence than fraud in general . that be the point I would ask he to take away , because I be not persuade . I think the amendment should remain within the body of the Bill as amend , and I will be vote accordingly . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be conscious that we must vote in five minute to remain in order , so I will simply say that economic crime be a national security issue and should not be a partisan issue in this House . I urge the Minister to set aside the party political view that he be express and to go with the consensus that have be build , not just in the House of Commons but in the House of Lords and in the non - governmental organisation sector outside . the right hon . Lady be right . it be not just the party but the different side of the natural argument over authority , libertarianism and civil right that be not divided . I be a strong defender of the right to be presume innocent , but there need to be a rebalancing in this area , where the criminal we be up against be very sophisticated and will use small company to get around this if they need to . in the interest of try to get to the vote on time I will close my speech , but I urge all member to please support the amendment propose by conservative in the House of Lords , which be eminently sensible , rational and pragmatic . I be afraid that I be go to disappoint the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) and speak very strongly against Lords amendment 151b and 151C , and I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be surprised at Lord Garnier ' s lack of any conception of what it be like to run a small business and the cumulative impact of Government regulation thereupon . the limit that be draw here will draw in all manner of business , not least some eminent barrister who will fall foul of some of the number . indeed , the average town - centre or city - centre pub will be cover by these regulation , such be their level of turnover and employee . it be worry that I be perhaps the only small - business voice here and that there be not enough small - business people in the House to point out the problem with this issue . as the Minister have say , hundred of thousand of business will be draw into the net . this be not necessarily about the compliance cost . the kind of regulation that come with the prospect of a criminal offence have a chilling effect on small business . I speak as somebody who have own one for nearly 30 year . when the Revenue , health and safety or trading standard show up with some new regulation , a whole industry crank into place to terrify the owner of small business into some kind of compliance . then along come the consultant , the accountant , the webinar and the newsletter tell we what we do and do not have to do . all of this distract we from what we should be do , which be try to create employment and wealth and pay tax to the rest of the country . the other issue be that this misunderstand the dynamic of business of this size . if a business of this size be go to engage in fraud , it be very possible — more than likely , actually — that the principal will be the instigator of that fraud . the idea that , alongside all the other offence , they should take step to prevent themselves from perpetrate fraud seem ridiculous . add to those general difficulty be the specific one present by the Heath Robinson - type calculation that every business will have to undertake every month : add together how many employee there be and how many be employ in each month in year p , then take away the number you first think of and divide it by the number of month . we be all go to have to do this every single month to work out whether we be above the threshold or not . should we have the step ? should we not have the step ? it all seem particularly nonsensical . we know that a vast amount of this fraud take place in large company , and they have the capacity and the wherewithal to deal with it . if my hon . friend really think that senior barrister , whose turnover and asset will be more than the threshold , should be take and show procedural step to avoid conduct fraud — do not forget that they be sole practitioner — then I be afraid we have go through the look glass of what Conservative member think be appropriate . I call Barry Gardiner . in the interest of move to the vote , I will not speak . in which case we come to the Minister , with the leave of the House . I welcome the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) to her place . we work closely together on the Treasury Committee and it be a pleasure to work across the House with she today . I also pay tribute to her predecessor , the hon . member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) for her similar approach to the work we have do on this legislation . I thank all hon . and right hon . member for their contribution to this debate and their support for the Government ' s amendment make in the other place . I want to refer to a number of point that have be raise today . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow , refer to the Government turn a blind eye to the issue of economic crime , but nothing could be far from the truth . many of we have work on this cross - party across the House from the Back Benches and now on the front Benches , and this be the second piece of legislation we have bring forward on economic crime in the past 18 month . these be groundbreake new measure . this Bill contain further reform to the Register of Overseas Entities introduce in the previous legislation . our legislation on strategic lawsuit against public participation — slapp — be world lead , and we now have the " failure to prevent " offence , which I will speak to in a moment . the hon . Lady also refer to the resource make available to our law enforcement agency . we be continue to invest in measure to tackle economic crime , and we have increase the budget of the National Crime Agency year on year since 2019 . its budget have now increase 40 % from the figure in 2019 and stand at just over £ 700 million . together , the recent spending review settlement and private sector contribution through the new economic crime levy will provide £ 400 million of funding over the spending review period , and the levy be estimate to bring in £ 100 million per annum start from this financial year , 2023 - 24 . there will be a wide - range review by the end of 2027 , provide transparency on how the levy be perform against its original purpose , include on how the money be spend . exist effort will move at pace to enhance and far drive forward the unit in what be inevitably complex and lengthy operation . in consider this legislation , we have often debate the extra resource that we be determined to deliver for Companies House and will pay for at least 400 more people . that be an incredibly important part of the Bill . my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) state very clearly that he feel the failure to prevent threshold be too widely draw , and I understand his point . as I say in my opening speech , all the case I have deal with in this place — whether it be Lloyds hbos read , HSBC , NatWest or other — have involve large organisation that turn a blind eye to fraud or let it happen on their watch . we believe it be right to strike a balance between the offence ' s crime prevention benefit and the burden place on business . there be a balance between risk and regulation , and we want to make sure that the regulation do not put excessive cost on business . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) make similar point . he cast doubt on the figure I have in front of I on the cost of the burden on business , which we believe will be £ 1 . 5 billion of implementation cost and around £ 192 million of recurrent annual cost . I be happy to look at other cost and analysis , but those be the figure before I . my right hon . and learn Friend make an interesting point that the threshold will facilitate economic crime in certain company , but the Lords amendment allow some company to be outside the rule . I be not sure how he can draw a line to say that there will be economic crime in some company and not in other . it be very difficult to draw a line , and we believe that draw a line at large company be right . line matter . at a point in a business ' s evolution , as my hon . friend will know from build his own business , it cross a line . it be perfectly possible , under the definition in Lords amendment 151C , that a company that satisfy the financial criterion will decide to go from nine employee to 10 or 11 , and suddenly it cross into this world of pain — the compliance people show up , and the company need a whole new process and procedure that come with employ that single extra person , on top of all the other employment and safety regulation it be have to deal with . set these threshold at a level at which company can absorb the step up in responsibility , and without a disproportionate amount of cost , seem critical . do he agree ? I do agree . I listen closely to my right hon . friend ' s remark . he say he might be the only small business owner currently in the Chamber , but he be talk to one . I have own a business for 30 year , grow it from a small business to a large one , and I absolutely agree that it be not just the legislation itself but its implementation and the requirement to implement prevention procedure . as he put it , that would almost create a new industry of adviser to advise on what need to be do , be they accountant or third party . he be right to raise those concern on behalf of small and medium - sized enterprise . my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ask about set the threshold at a different level , the small company threshold rather than the current micro company threshold . the small company threshold be 50 employer , £ 10 . 2 million of turnover and a £ 5 . 1 million balance sheet , accord to Companies House , whereas we think a 250 - employee threshold would be more appropriate . that be where we differ , but I be happy to continue that conversation . I want to ask a question that I do not think be address last time we debate Lords amendment , and that I do not think the Government have address today . what be the implication if there be an explicit threshold ? what far thought have the Government give to the implication of put in a threshold ? be they satisfied that some of the concern raise by Opposition Members and Conservative Back Benchers have be take into account ? we be very clear that we believe we have the right threshold . large company clearly have the capacity and the human resource and risk compliance department to mitigate these kind of risk , whereas small and medium - sized enterprise be rightly much more focused on drive their business forward , which be very important to the economic health of our country . I think we have it right . my hon . Friend make a similar point in our previous debate on this issue , and he make it very strongly . the fact that both he and my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) have make that point today counterbalance some of the argument on the other side for extend the threshold far . the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) speak about my previous comment . I think I have be pretty consistent in everything I have say in the House , unless she can point to anything different I have say from the back Benches — [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , laugh , but I have always be a champion of the " failure to prevent " offence . if member look back to the original Bill , which I think be 260 page long — it be now nearly 400 page long — they will see that I have be very keen to make sure that we listen to hon . member on thing like the " failure to prevent " offence and the identification doctrine , which both now feature in the Bill . all the case I deal with on the Back Benches , and indeed the information I have see as a Minister , show that the kind of fraud the law enforcement agency have not be able to prosecute be happen in large company , not small company . we believe that these circumstance be different from unexplained wealth order , for which we obviously put cost - cap measure in place . of course , unexplained wealth order be not a process for take somebody ' s asset from they ; they be a process for freeze asset . lord amendment 161b be entirely different . in my view , there be definitely a civil liberty issue in term of the power of the state versus the power of the individual . this measure potentially deliver an imbalance of power between the state and the individual . I would be keen to have a conversation with the very learn Members in the Chamber , but they must understand that the state be powerful and well resource compare with the individual . obviously there be some individual who be very well resource , but we still operate on the presumption of innocence in this country , and we have to be very careful . that be why we want a review to look into this and report back to Parliament within 12 month . we have communicate with the National Crime Agency to ask for evidence on where it feel these measure be need . all law enforcement agency want more power and more provision , of course , but I have see no clear , significant evidence from the enforcement agency that cost - cap order would be need in this situation . I , too , have speak to Bill Browder , and I have speak to official about whether this measure be need in the UK regime . member will be aware that Mr Browder principally look at the parallel with the US situation , where adverse cost do not apply across the system . member have talk about the chilling effect of such provision , but there be potentially a chilling effect on the other side of the equation . yesterday I meet a barrister who defend people against such action , and he be very concerned about the imbalance of power that would result . I have not see any significant evidence , and I be very interested in the evidence that my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst give to the Cambridge crime symposium , at which I have speak in the past , on whether this be need . however , I be not aware of anything the Justice Committee or the Law Commission have do in this area . it be important that we look at that kind of evidence before we implement these kind of measure . the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) accuse I of be party political . I be surprised she take that view . I have work on a cross - party basis from the Back Benches and , as she know , I do the same from the Front Bench , and I will continue to do so to make sure that we get this legislation right . in conclusion , throughout the passage of the Bill , the Government have work hard to get the balance right between tackle economic crime and ensure that the UK remain a place where law - abide business can flourish without unnecessary burden . the motion table by the Government today achieve that balanced and proportionate approach , and I therefore urge member on both side of the House to support they . lord amendment 23B and 23c agree to . after clause 180 - failure to prevent fraud Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment 151b and 151C and insist on its Amendment 151A . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) the House proceed to a Division . will the Serjeant at arm investigate the delay in the Aye Lobby ? Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly James Davies mim davy caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Andrew Stephenson Robert Largan Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth John Baron Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Ben Lake David Lammy Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Colleen Fletcher Christian Wakeford the House have divide : Ayes 276 , Noes 210 . question accordingly agree to . 3 . 8 pm More than one hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords message , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 4 September . ) the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83 g ) . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . the inexplicable delay in counting vote have now risk deny the House a vote on ensure that this Bill to tackle economic crime be as strong as it could be . will you therefore advise the House on what action we can now take to ensure that in the debate that lie ahead we can come back to this question and make sure we have the right provision in place in statute and that this country be no long a soft touch for economic crime ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . as he know , we be now go to move on to the motion on amendment 161B , and if that be annul there will be other opportunity , I be sure . after clause 187 - civil recovery : cost of proceeding resolve , that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment 161b in lieu of Commons amendment 161A and insist on amendment 161A in lieu . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 151b , 151C and 161b . that Kevin Hollinrake , Scott Mann , James Sunderland , Jane Stevenson , Rushanara Ali , Taiwo Owatemi and Alison Thewliss be member of the Committee ; that Kevin Hollinrake be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . may I seek your guidance about how I properly place on the record a reference to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in the context of my speech in the debate about the Lords message on the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill ? I thank the right hon . and learn Member for his point of order . he have recognise that he make an omission and he have correct it at the early opportunity . I thank he for do so . prevention and Suppression of Terrorism I beg to move , that the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 September , be approve . before get into the detail of the order , I take this opportunity to apologise to the House and to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for the fact that news of my decision , which we be here to debate , become public before the order be lay . I be grateful to hon . member for their consideration of the order , which will see the Wagner Group , a truly brutal organisation , proscribe . have just meet ukrainian Interior Minister Klymenko , I be proud to reiterate the United Kingdom ' s commitment to Ukraine , as it resist and defeat Putin ' s war of aggression . some 78 terrorist organisation be currently proscribe under the Terrorism Act 2000 . Proscription be not only a powerful tool for degrade terrorist organisation ; it send a strong message about the UK ' s commitment to tackle terrorist activity globally . Wagner Group be terrorist , plain and simple . I therefore propose amend schedule 2 to the Terrorism Act 2000 by add Wagner Group , also refer to as the Wagner Network , to the list of proscribe organisation . in refer to Wagner Group , the order encompass all Wagner ' s activity across the globe . for an organisation to be proscribe , I as the Home Secretary must reasonably believe that it be currently involve in terrorism , as set out in section 3 of the 2000 Act . if the statutory test be meet , I must then consider the proportionality of proscription and decide whether to exercise my discretion . Proscription be a powerful tool with severe penalty . it criminalise be a member or supporter of a proscribe organisation and wear article of a proscribe organisation in a way that arouse suspicion . penalty be a maximum of 14 year in prison and / or an unlimited fine . Proscription also support other disruptive activity , such as immigration disruption and terrorist financing offence . the resource of a proscribe organisation be terrorist property and therefore liable to be seize . the order build on sanction that be already in place against Wagner Group . terrorist financing incur criminal rather than civil penalty , which allow the Government ultimately to forfeit terrorist property , rather than just freeze an individual ' s asset . I be support in my decision making by the cross - Government proscription review group , and a decision to proscribe be take only after great care and consideration , give its wide - range impact . it must be approve by both Houses . a great deal of carnage and blame can be lay at the foot of Wagner Group , a russian private military company , which emerge follow Russia ' s illegal annexation of Crimea and Putin ' s first illegal invasion of eastern Ukraine in 2014 . Wagner have act as a proxy military force on behalf of the russian state , operate in a range of theatre include Ukraine , Syria , Central African Republic , Sudan , Libya , Mozambique and Mali . they have pursue Russia ' s foreign policy objective and those of other government who have contract their service . in the hour follow Putin ' s decision to invade Ukraine , Wagner Group be reportedly task with assassinate President Zelensky . they fail in that task , thank to the heroism and bravery of the ukrainian security force . Wagner Group describe themselves in heroic term , even suggest , revoltingly , that they be saviour of Africa . that private military company remain illegal under russian law have never particularly concern Putin . Putin can distort the truth to suit himself all he like , but Wagner Group be terrorist . wherever they go , instability , misery and violence follow . with the House ' s consent , Wagner Group will therefore be proscribe . have carefully consider all the evidence , include advice from the cross - Government proscription review group , I have decide that there be sufficient evidence to reasonably believe that Wagner Group be concern in terrorism and that proscription be proportionate . although I be unable to comment on specific intelligence , I can provide the House with a summary of Wagner Group ' s activity , which support the decision . Wagner Group commit and participate in terrorism . that be base on evidence of their use of serious violence against ukrainian armed force and civilian to advance Russia ' s political cause . Wagner Group play a central role in combat operation against ukrainian armed force to seize the city of Popasna in May 2022 and during the assault on Bakhmut , which be largely occupy by russian force this year . the horrific assault on Bakhmut result in the virtual destruction of a city that be once home to 70 , 000 people . those be 70 , 000 innocent civilian whose home happen to be in the way of Putin ' s neo - imperial ambition . Wagner employ the same inhumane and senseless tactic that russian force have previously use in Chechnya , kill innocent civilian and destroy an entire city in the process . they barely show any more concern for the life of their own side . defence intelligence have assess that up to 20 , 000 convict , recruit directly from russian prison on the promise of a pardon and early release , be kill within a few month of the attack on bakhmut . wagner ' s relentless bombardment of Bakhmut be one of the bloody episode in modern military history . hon . member will also be aware of multiple report that allege unbelievable brutality by Wagner Group commander against their own troop who retreat , desert or otherwise refuse to carry out their leader ' murderous order . the most notorious of those event , the killing of a purported deserter , who be murder by a sledgehammer blow to the head , have even be glorify by Wagner ' s leader and russian ultra - nationalists . that macabre culture and brutality be indicative of an organisation that be more than just a private military company . there be a reason for that : it be a terrorist organisation . ukrainian prosecutor have accuse Wagner Group fighter of war crime near Kyiv . the tortured body of civilian be find with their hand tie behind their back in the village of Motyzhyn . I visit Ukraine last year in my role as Attorney General and I see at first hand those prosecutor ' unrelenting commitment to seek justice . we stand with Ukraine in that mission . Wagner Group have also be implicate in serious act of violence in several country in Africa . a UN report publish in May this year implicate Wagner in the massacre of at least 500 people in the central malian town of Moura in March 2022 , include summary execution , as well as rape and torture . in June 2021 , a panel of expert convene by the UN Security Council detailed atrocity in the Central African Republic , include excessive use of force , indiscriminate killing , the occupation of school and loot on a large scale , include of humanitarian organisation . despite their mutiny in June of this year and the report death of their leader , Yevgeny Prigozhin , last month , Wagner remain a violent and destructive organisation . Proscription send a strong message of the UK ' s commitment to tackle terrorist activity and build on our exist cross - Government work to counter Wagner ' s destabilising activity . their leadership ' s recent feud with senior russian military figure be a predictable consequence of Putin ' s disastrous decision to invade Ukraine , but it be fundamentally a distraction from the fact that Wagner continue to commit violent act around the world . while Putin ' s regime waver over what to do with the monster that it create , Wagner ' s destabilising activity only continue to serve the Kremlin ' s political goal . I be listen carefully to what the Home Secretary be say about the timeline for all this . although I certainly welcome this proscription , the frustration be that it do not happen soon . although she can not go into the detail of the intelligence that she have hear , could she perhaps expand on why it have take this long , because much of what she have say refer to 2021 and early 2022 . why do we not we do this soon ? the decision have not be take in isolation ; it build on a strong response to Russia ' s aggression in Ukraine and Wagner ' s wide destabilising activity , include extensive sanction . decision on whether and when to proscribe a particular organisation be take after extensive consideration and in the light of a full assessment of the available information . significant event have take place recently , include the mutiny in June , the alleged death of the core Wagner Group leadership in August , and it be right that we consider the impact of those key event when take the decision . the real fact remain that this group present a serious risk to security around the world , and their increase activity in Ukraine affect european stability and our security , which be why the case for action be now strong than ever . Wagner be vulnerable . a leadership vacuum and question about their future provide a unique opportunity to truly disrupt their operation and the threat they pose . that be why this House must proscribe Wagner now . this decision come after public call from President Zelensky for international ally to take action and list Wagner as a terrorist organisation . in do so , we stand alongside our ally in Estonia , Latvia , Lithuania and France , whose Parliaments have all call for Wagner Group to be label as a terrorist organisation on the EU ' s list of terrorist group . we continue to work in close co - ordination with the US , which designate Wagner under its transnational criminal organisation sanction programme early this year . in formally proscribing , we will be lead the international effort by take concrete legal action against Wagner . I urge our ally to follow suit . this decision demonstrate that the UK will maintain its unwavering support for Ukraine , in co - ordination with our ally . it show that we stand with the people of Ukraine against Russia ' s aggression . to conclude , wherever Wagner operate , they have a catastrophic effect on community , worsen conflict and damage the reputation of country that host they . Wagner may be at their most vulnerable and Russia ' s military leader may be grapple to regain control of the organisation , but the brutal method they have employ will undoubtedly remain a tool of the russian state . let there be no misunderstanding : in whatever form wagner take , we and our ally will pursue they . we will expose they and we will disrupt they . Wagner be a terrorist organisation and we must not be afraid of say so . we will hold Russia to account for its use of these malign group — these international gangster — and the destruction they bring around the world . we will continue to support Ukraine in the face of Russia ' s aggression , and we will confront and challenge terrorism however and wherever it occur . rise — before we proceed , I must now announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the draft Windsor Framework ( Enforcement etc . ) regulation 2023 . the Ayes be 434 and the Noes be 10 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] I thank the Home Secretary for her remark . I wish to begin by pay tribute to the exceptional man and woman who serve in our intelligence and security service , in Government and in our police , as they all work tirelessly to keep our country safe . two day on from the anniversary of 9 / 11 , I also wish to remember the life lose and all those affect by the tragic event of 2001 , and to reaffirm labour ' s commitment to stand against the evil of terrorism . as the Home Secretary have lay out , the Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 amend the list of proscribe organisation in schedule 2 to the Act by add Wagner Group as a new entry . what the Government be propose today will make it a criminal offence to belong to Wagner Group , to engage in activity , such as attend meeting , to promote support for the group , or to publicly display their logo , put the group on a par with organisation such as the Islamic State and al - Qaeda . it also enable Wagner asset to be categorise as terrorist property and seize . it be a motion that we on these opposition Benches strongly support . Proscribing Wagner Group be a necessary step to address the threat that they pose . it be an action for which we on the Labour Benches have be call for some time — the shadow Home Secretary call for this back in February . the United States designate Wagner a transnational criminal organisation nine month ago . France designate Wagner as a terrorist entity back in May . although I be very conscious of the complexity around this type of proscription — perhaps the June coup be a far complicate factor — will the Home Secretary reflect on whether lesson could be learn with regard to act soon ? this go back to the point make by the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) a moment ago . I ask that question , mindful of the long - stand support for proscription from Members right across this House , include the former Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the shadow Home Secretary have consistently raise the challenge involve in use counter - terror legislation to proscribe state - sponsor organisation such as Wagner . we have long call for the introduction of a bespoke proscribing mechanism design specifically to address state - sponsor threat . the Government ' s Contest update publish in July state : " the most pressing national security priority be now the threat from Russia to european security . " yet the strategy do not set out a comprehensive response to the national security threat pose by state and state - sponsor actor . I would therefore be grateful if the Home Secretary outline what robust action the Government be take to tackle those threat . there be many people and organisation in the world that we could call a force for good . wagner be at the opposite end of that spectrum . they be a force for evil wherever they be . their track record be one of violence , theft and murder , from Ukraine to Syria , and from Mali to Mozambique . they help to spearhead the takeover of Crimea in 2014 and have carry out appal war crime since the 2022 invasion of Ukraine . they have be implicate in massacre of civilian and increase abuse by security force in multiple other country . in place such as the Central African Republic they have offer a business model essentially trade violence for natural resource , turbocharge the abusive extraction of mineral that have drive so much conflict and corruption in weak state around the world . as of July , the Government have sanction few than a quarter of the 81 individual and entity the Foreign Affairs Committee recently identify as be link to Wagner . I ask the Home Secretary to give an assurance that the Government be look closely at those individual and work to ensure that , where possible , sanction be apply . as the Committee also point out in its excellent report , Wagner be " a sprawl , decentralise network of individual and commercial entity … for which the ' membership ' be not always clear . " the presume assassination of Wagner leader Yevgeny Prigozhin may hasten the break - up of the organisation , but there be little doubt that their work could continue under different name , by the same or different individual . will the Home Secretary confirm that , work with her colleague across Government , step be be take to ensure that the UK be ready to respond to such a scenario ? of course , the threat pose by Wagner be multiply exponentially because of their link to the Kremlin . it fit neatly within a pattern of crime , corruption and kleptocracy that pose a much wide danger . russian information and election subversion operation , which Wagner support and which have target the UK , among other country , will not go away , not least because other country be imitate they , but by proscribe the group we demonstrate an important commitment towards protect our democratic value . I completely understand that the Home Secretary will be limit in what she can say , but give the activity of Wagner it would be helpful be she able to say something about the progress that the defend democracy taskforce be make . we also need to consider way in which the UK may itself be facilitate the profit of Wagner ' s backer and those like they . for example , research by Transparency International UK suggest that since 2016 , £ 1 . 5 billion - worth of UK property be buy by Russians accuse of corruption or with link to the Kremlin . More than half of that be hold through company in Britain ' s overseas territory and Crown dependency . More than 2 , 000 company register in those area be use in 48 russian money laundering and corruption case , involve more than £ 82 billion of illicit fund . what be the betting that some of those beneficiary be link to Wagner ? what be the harm to our security be do even by those who be not ? I know that the Home Secretary will not consider this proscription as job do , and will see it as just an important further step towards disrupt and defeat Wagner ' s murderous terrorist activity . while I be conscious that she will be limit in what she be able to say , I would be grateful if she could say something about what step the Government be take to strengthen financial transparency and accountability in the UK , in our dependency and overseas . the Labour party strongly support the motion . we will work constructively to stand against the evil of terrorism , and I look forward to hear from the Home Secretary on the question that I have put to she . I completely support my right hon . and learn Friend the Home Secretary in proscribe Wagner Group . as she say , they be instrumental in Russia ' s brutal and illegal invasion of Ukraine . they be almost certainly complicit in war crime of the sort that we have see describe throughout this horrific conflict , and it be right that we support our ally in Ukraine , in particular President Zelensky . my purpose in rise in this debate be to question the logic of proscribe Wagner Group today and the Government ' s sense of priority in that we be not do so alongside , if not link to , the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in Iran . I do so by reference to the test set out for the proscription of Wagner Group in the Government ' s explanatory note to this motion . the first test be " the nature and scale of the organisation ' s activity " . my right hon . and learn Friend the Home Secretary have set out how Wagner meet that test , but the irgc be answerable directly to the supreme leader in Iran , so it have a direct link with the iranian state ' s malignant activity , include its support of the war in Ukraine . the irgc be directly involve in the brutal oppression of the iranian people , the suppression of human right , the disappearance , the torture and the execution — so why not proscribe it ? the second test set out by the Government for proscribe an organisation be " the specific threat that it pose to the UK " . I hope my right hon . and learn Friend may say a little bit more , as far as she be able , about that specific threat , but it be clear in the case of the irgc that MI5 have acknowledge the real threat from Iran ' s " aggressive intelligence service " towards the United Kingdom . the irgc clearly pass that test . the third test for an organisation be " the specific threat that it pose to british national overseas " . give the scale of the activity that Wagner Group be involve in , they would clearly pass that test . however , the irgc be an indispensable part of the chain of hostage taking that have a direct impact on the safety of UK national and particularly UK dual national abroad , include in Iran . why be we not see that linkage here ? the fourth test be " the extent of the organisation ' s presence in the UK " . I be not quite clear about the extent of Wagner ' s presence in the UK — I can understand its impact on the UK , but I do not quite grasp its presence in the UK . however , I be very clear about Iran ' s presence here and the irgc ' s role in use its propaganda base to incite extremism in the UK . the fifth test be " the need to support international partner in the fight against terrorism . " my right hon . and learn Friend have quite rightly set out a number of country that be our partner in the international community and should be get our support in the fight against Wagner Group and their interest in their own country . however , we know that the irgc be the export bureau for terrorism in the region , to its neighbour and beyond . we have have so many example , from Hezbollah onwards . then we come to the linkage . the irgc in Iran have huge control over the mean of production in that country . it be inconceivable that it be not intricately involve in the production of the drone that Iran send to Russia for the oppression of the ukrainian people . if war crime have be carry out by Russia , the mean of carry out those crime have at least part of its origin in Tehran with the irgc . it be essential that we tackle that as quickly as we can . no one will disagree that Wagner be an evil , dangerous and malign grouping , but I would argue that they be no bad than the irgc , which be not be proscribe by the Government . indeed , the Prime Minister , in seek the leadership of the Conservative party , be very supportive of the concept of proscribe the irgc , so why this inactivity ? I understand that my right hon . and learn Friend the Home Secretary will have to have discussion and there will be a strong input from the Foreign Office in this . she have be a tough and robust Home Secretary , something that many of we greatly appreciate , but we be well behind the curve compare with the United States when it come to the irgc , and our failure to tackle what be a malign influence in the world today be damage Britain ' s reputation in the world beyond . I ask my right hon . and learn Friend to consult urgently with the rest of Government to see whether we should not be come back to this Chamber as quickly as possible and add the irgc to the group that this country will rightly proscribe because of their impact on this country , our citizen , the safety of country beyond , our ally and international law itself . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be glad to follow the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) , and I agree entirely with what he say . many people in this House have for some time be call for the proscription of the IRGC . I have constituent who be also concerned about the reach of the irgc and be scared for their own safety , even in this country . it would be useful if the Home Secretary address the delay in the proscription in she sum up . Wagner Group be an appalling organisation . the strength of the atrocity that that murderous organisation have be carry out have be well document and well know for year at the high level of the British Government . the explanatory memorandum to the order set out clearly the group ' s activity , as a proxy military force , on behalf of the russian state . it state : " found in 2014 , Wagner Group have operate in a range of theatre , include Ukraine , Syria , the Central African Republic , Sudan , Libya , Mozambique , and Mali … in pursuit of Russia ' s foreign policy objective and the objective of host government who have contract Wagner ' s service . " so why have it take until 2023 , a hot war on european soil and a co - ordinate plane crash kill the group ' s leader for this order to come before the House ? that be quite astonishing . a catalogue of chaos and destruction have come before today , and as much as we support the measure , it feel to I and many other that the Government have take far too long to raise the designation . we in the SNP be disgusted that in October 2021 , before Putin ' s invasion , the Treasury — then under the control of the now Prime Minister — allow Yevgeny Prigozhin to circumvent sanction and launch a target attack on a british journalist . we very much want to see action against Wagner Group and all those associate with they — that be a significant point . in the press release accompany this announcement , the Minister for Security , the right hon . member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , say : " Proscribing Wagner send a clear message that the UK will not tolerate Russia ' s proxy and their barbaric action in Ukraine , and condemn Wagner ' s campaign of corruption and bloodshed on the african continent , which have be repeatedly link to human right violation . " that be all fine and well , but why be this not do soon ? I would like answer from the Home Secretary on that . act soon may have stem some of that bloodshed and some of what have happen , and may have send a clear message more widely at a much early stage . if the organisation be indeed found in 2014 , that mean that we have now be wait nine year for this measure , and a lot of destruction have pass since . Designating Wagner Group for proscription be a response to repeat request from Ukraine ' s President Zelensky , who have call for the group to be treat as a terrorist organisation . can the Home Secretary tell we when he first make that request of the Government , and what response have be give to he ? clearly , we support President Zelensky and want he to succeed in his endeavour , but it would be useful to know the timeline and when the Government respond to that request . on the wide situation , organisation that work for Wagner Group depend on the flow of fund that often wash up through bank account in the United Kingdom . we know about the UK ' s reputation as a hub for launder dirty money . prior to this debate , the House deal with the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , which could do more still to ensure that we know who own and benefit from various type of financial structure . be the Home Secretary satisfy that that legislation will go far enough to prevent the son , daughter , relative and associate of Wagner Group member from move money through account here in the UK ? we should do everything we can , in light of Prigozhin ' s action to evade UK sanction , to shut down Wagner Group wherever they might sprout up . the Foreign Affairs Committee have brand the UK Government ' s effort to deter Wagner Group " underwhelme in the extreme " and recommend that the conservative party revive at the early opportunity the 2019 manifesto commitment to spending 0 . 7 % of the UK ' s gross national income on official development assistance . Russia , and China to an extent , be exploit and seek to put their influence into the gap leave by UK development assistance . as we pull back from that influence that we have have in the world , we do not want country to be turn to state such as Russia , and to group such as Wagner that work on their behalf . will the Home Secretary comment on what more can be do to ensure that we counter such nefarious influence ? once state go down that road , it can be very difficult to come back , and we know from country in Africa that the result of that will also end up on the Home Secretary ' s desk in the form of people seek asylum in this country , flee from war that we could have do more to prevent have we clamp down and have we provide aid at a different stage . all of this be interconnect , and all of it come through her Department . the Foreign Affairs Committee have also comment that it have receive no evidence of any serious effort by the UK Government to track Wagner Network ' s activity in country other than Ukraine . that be perhaps not directly within the Home Secretary ' s remit , but could she comment a wee bit far on the tracking of the Wagner Group ' s activity — on how closely the UK state be monitor those activity to ensure we understand where they be now and , crucially , where they might be go next ? they appear to have a very nimble organisation that can change and evolve , so we need to be mindful that although Prigozhin be go , there be plenty of people to replace he within that organisation . what they be do be clearly lucrative , so we need to have that intelligence and analysis of their network to make sure we be keep a close eye on what happen next , and what more the UK state can do to intervene in it . can the Home Secretary talk a bit more about the further sanction on civilian enabler and frontman , which I touch on a little when we be debate the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill ? there be people in this country , I be certain , who be facilitate a lot of the movement of finance . we have the opportunity to go far than be propose in the order to look at those frontman and those who give the organisation its corporate face . will the UK Government have a regular mechanism for co - ordinating with ally about sanction — prioritise travel ban , for example — to make sure that those actor involve in Wagner do not get to move around ? be the Magnitsky sanction list also co - ordinated with today ' s action , and will more sanction on that list follow ? I know that it be not the do thing to say who be go to be sanction , but it would be good to get some reassurance that that list be continually under review . finally , it would also be useful to know what further mechanism there be for oversight in this House . we need to be keep a close eye on this issue : it should not have take nine year to get to where we be today . what more will be do to make sure that this be an effective mechanism — that we be keep a very close eye on this organisation and its operative , and do everything we can as a good ally to Ukraine to make sure that all our action be co - ordinated , work with other ally to make sure everything that can possibly be do to shut down this evil terrorist organisation be do , and do quickly ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . naturally , I and the liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s decision to proscribe Wagner mercenary group as a terrorist organisation , but I hope the Home Secretary hear some of the frustration about how long it have take . when President Zelensky first address the House of Commons on 9 March 2022 , just 13 day after Russia ' s invasion — I be sure many member be there ; it be profoundly move — his ask of we be that we recognise Russia as a terrorist state . the next day , our party agree with he publicly , and furthermore say that we must proscribe Wagner Group . it have be 551 day since the illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine , and the Government only decide last week to finally get their act together . I be sorry , but that be far , far too late . the proscription come after the organisation ' s infamous leader have his plane mysteriously blow out of the sky , and Wagner Group ' s power be now wane . this be a classic case of close the stable door after the horse have bolt . yes , Wagner Group be weak now , but what could we have prevent — what could we have stop they from do — have we start this process early ? this barbarous group have always be terrorist : they be terrorist a year ago , and they be terrorist nine year ago . we do not need more information ; we just need to get on with it . as have be describe , Wagner Group have be wreak havoc and destruction not just in Ukraine , but all over — in Syria , Mali , the Central African Republic , Sudan and Libya . the Government have repeatedly inform the House of what step they be take to provide support to Ukrainians fight russian force and Wagner Group , but I ask the Government to update we on what support we be provide our partner in Africa face these same bloodthirsty mercenary . we have take too long in weaken they , and we have allow they to take root . we understand that Russia be now fall in behind and try to recoup some of these contract , but I be afraid to say that it should not have get to this point . on sanction , which be mention by the Home Secretary , my colleague in the House of Lords have recently raise the issue of joint venture that operate between the United Arab Emirates , Russia , Wagner Group and country such as Sudan . I join my colleague in the Lords in hope that the Government might update money launder regulation with haste to ensure that these loophole be closed , because we know these loophole exist . I would like to remind the House of a debate we have in January , when we debate the opendemocracy report that expose how the Government assist — assist — Yevgeny Prigozhin in evade sanction to launch a legal attack on a british journalist . special licence issue in 2021 by the then Chancellor of the Exchequer , now the Prime Minister , enable this move , despite sanction that have be impose in 2020 to prevent such dealing with Prigozhin . as I say at the time , that one of the most notorious criminal in the world — and now a UK proscribe terrorist , albeit dead — might have evade sanction to sue a british journalist should not have happen , and we still need answer about what happen . the other thing that remain an unanswered question — again , this be link — be the issue of golden visa , which lie squarely in the Department of the Home Secretary . yes , the Government cease the use of tier 1 investment visa , but time and again they have refuse to publish the full review . after five year , they release a short statement about the review , but never the review itself . I be sorry to say that this just create suspicion . this House need to know to what extent the Government let Kremlin - link oligarch treat this country as their playground , and if it be too sensitive for we to see here , and I accept it might well be , release it to the Intelligence and Security Committee , for example . let it have the transparency it need , because if the Government have nothing to hide , then they have nothing to fear . finally , I be glad that the Government have finally see the error of their way regard the timeline to proscribe Wagner , but they now must learn this lesson and not wait . in particular , they must not make the same mistake with Iran , and I echo the point make by member early . the Home Secretary will know that 16 September mark the one - year anniversary of the killing of Mahsa Amini in Iran , and time and again across this House we have repeatedly call for the proscription of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in Iran . the Home Secretary have warm up her proscription muscle , and I would urge she to use they again , perhaps even this week to mark that tragic anniversary . I be grateful to all who have contribute to this debate . many important issue have be raise , and I be encourage by the supportive atmosphere in which the discussion have take place . we all agree that Wagner Group be terrorist plain and simple , and I be confident that this House recognise , as the british people recognise , that we have a moral responsibility to act . we must and we will confront terrorism wherever and however it occur , and that be why we be take this action . hon . member have all make very powerful point , and let I attempt to take they in some kind of logical order . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , raise the issue of comparison with other international ally . I gently say that we have be work intensively to build international consensus , but also to work closely in a cohesive way with our ally . the US designation to which the hon . Gentleman refer be equivalent to the sanction that the UK impose in March last year . it be not equivalent to our proscription power that we be take right now . the French Parliament support a non - bind resolution to call Wagner terrorist , but it have not formally proscribe . that be why I emphasise that we be take a leadership role in formally proscribe Wagner as a terrorist organisation . I will continue to work with international partner to create a broad consensus . I agree with everything that the Home Secretary have say . we be take a lead , and that be brilliant . have she have specific conversation on this matter with her counterpart and also with the EU ? the EU can also proscribe and designate Wagner as a terrorist organisation , which itself have financial implication . will she bring that up with the European Union , too ? the threat pose by terrorist organisation , include Wagner Group , have be on the agenda in many of my dialogue with international partner because of its wholesale destructive nature and the enormity of the threat that it pose . the shadow Minister also ask about our broad strategy on Russia and our approach to state threat . what I turn to first be our integrated review , which set out in the most pressing term that the most urgent national security and foreign policy priority in the short to medium term be to address the threat pose by Russia to european security . we will continue to work with our ally and partner to defend the rule - base international order , and we stand united in condemn Russia ' s reprehensible action , which be an egregious violation of international law and the UN charter . when the integrated review be publish , it make clear that we be deal head - on with the threat pose by Russia . we take it extremely seriously , and we have respond to it . we have call out russian aggression wherever it occur . the National Security Act 2023 — a landmark piece of legislation that overhaul our outdated espionage rule — already create a wide range of new offence , tool and power to counter state threat and their activity . in many respect , those cover similar ground to a proscription - like power of the kind that the shadow Minister be refer to , but the Act will give we and , importantly , equip our agency with wide - range tool to specify a foreign power , or part of a foreign power , or an entity control by a foreign power , under the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , for example . it will mean that person in those arrangement will have to register their activity or risk prosecution . that be a groundbreaking tool that we will be equip with thank to the passage of that landmark legislation . the defend democracy taskforce , to which the shadow Minister refer , be lead cross - government work . it be chair and lead by the Minister for Security , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , but that cross - government work be take place to drive forward the taskforce ' s priority with Parliament , our security and intelligence community , the devolve Administrations , local authority , the private sector and civil society . it have be incredibly extensive in its coverage so far , and we look forward to its have a tangible impact on those agency to which I refer . several Members ask about sanction , and in particular the sanction in place against Wagner Group . in 2020 , the UK designate Prigozhin through the Libya sanction regime . that be for his and Wagner Group ' s involvement in activity that threaten the peace , stability and security of Libya , include defy the UN arm embargo . in March 2022 , the UK also designate the Wagner Group for their role in action that destabilise Ukraine . Asset freeze be impose on fund identify as belong to the Wagner Group in the UK , as well as travel ban on any of their member . in July this year , the Foreign Secretary announce 13 new UK sanction target a range of individual and business link to the action of the Wagner Group in Africa . that include individual from the Wagner Group associate with execution and torture in Mali and the Central African Republic , and threat to peace and security in Sudan . those sanction have have an impact : they constrain the ability to utilise asset and limit the ability to travel . as I say , the framework have constrain the freedom and ability of these organisation and individual . of course , the broad - range set of sanction have be one of the large set of sanction impose on a modern economy . several hon . member ask what more the Government be do to monitor the risk that the Wagner Group and other russian private military company or mercenary fragment and reform in different mould . our approach to tackle Wagner and other russian pmc have three core strand : military , sanction and state building . the extensive military support we have give to Ukraine seek to counter the threat that Wagner pose there , and our sanction constrain their ability to utilise asset and to travel . our diplomatic engagement with partner around the world focus on support fragile state to build their own capacity and discourage Wagner from take root . several hon . member reference how Wagner trade in violence and benefit through government , para - government or paramilitary group plunder resource , asset and other form of wealth in those nation . if those state be robust and resilient in the first place , group such as Wagner will not be able to take root . that work relate to private military company be extensive , and our cross - Government Russia unit bring our full range of capability to bear against the malign influence of these contractor , in concert with our ally . several hon . member reference Africa . for many year , Wagner have have a destabilising effect on the african continent . they have be reportedly responsible for multiple breach of international humanitarian law and abuse of human right , include numerous report of indiscriminate killing of unarmed civilian , summary execution and rape . we have again seek to take a leading role in reduce opportunity for Wagner to operate in Africa and hold they to account for the atrocity they commit . lastly , several hon . member — notably my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) — reference the irgc . it be clear that Iran continue to pose a persistent threat to UK - base individual , which be unacceptable . there have obviously be significant parliamentary , medium and public interest in a potential proscription decision on the irgc . both the House of Commons and the House of Lords have discuss IRGC proscription , with the House of Commons unanimously pass a motion in January to urge the Government to proscribe it . it be clear that the iranian regime continue to occupy a serious and worrying role in our global order . we continue to condemn Iran ' s role as one of the top military backer of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . since August last year , Tehran have transfer hundred of unmanned aerial vehicle to Moscow , in violation of UN Security Council resolution 2231 . we work tirelessly with our international partner to hold Iran to account for the sale of drone to Russia , and we have impose three round of sanction on iranian individual and entity involve in the illegal transfer to Russia . they add to the already extensive sanction on Iran ' s drone programme . we have also publicly raise this matter twice at the UN Security Council , alongside France , Germany and the US , and we support Ukraine ' s request for a UN investigation . it be clear that Iran continue to pose a persistent threat to UK - base individual , which be unacceptable . the Department keep the list of proscribe organisation under review . I know I will frustrate colleague to say that our policy be not to comment on the specific of individual proscription case , and that I be unable to provide further detail on this issue . I have hear the comment of member here and the sentiment of the House . minister previously confirm to this House that the decision be under active consideration but that we would not provide a run commentary . I know that will disappoint member , but we be cognisant and open - eyed about the threat that the IRGC pose to the UK . I be very grateful for this House ' s support for the decision to proscribe the Wagner Group as a terrorist organisation . the brutality and the enormity of destruction and devastation wreak by this group be unspeakable . it be right that we act now . I commend this order to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 September , be approve . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker , I seek your advice . recently , Cumberland Council , which incidentally happen to be Labour - lead , write to I about the impact of the EU ' s nutrient neutrality rule on house building in my constituency and that of my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) . as well as a number of new business and business expansion be hold up , I be tell that more than 2 , 500 new home that have go through the planning process and be await grant permission have be block , and a further 1 , 450 home as part of St Cuthbert ' s garden village have be block . at least one national house builder have effectively withdraw from the region . the forecast turnover reduction run into million of pound , with the inevitable impact on local job and the supply chain . the council also say that the impact of the small amount of mitigation that may be find for some development will be a reduction in section 106 agreement for affordable housing . hundred of job in my constituency be at risk . the Government find a solution and we have now find out that the opposition plan to block it , after previously signal agreement . I wonder if a Minister might signal their intention to come to the House to set out the impact that the flip - flopping of his Majesty ' s opposition might have on constituency such as Workington . the hon . Gentleman have place his view on the record , and it have be hear by Ministers . he will understand it be not a matter for the Chair , but I be quite sure that member on both Front Benches will have hear what he have have to say and will treat the matter with the respect that it deserve . petition - 150 year of Notting Hill and Ealing High School I rise to present a petition sign by people from Ealing , Acton and Chiswick — all part of my constituency . fittingly , they be all woman , because it regard Notting Hill and Ealing High School , an all - girl school that be 150 year young this weekend . if I be to declare an interest , it be that I be product of that school , as many woman have be since 1873 . the petition state : " the petitioner … request that the House of Commons urge the Government to celebrate the achievement of " — the outstanding — " Notting Hill and Ealing High School " . in fact , it be not just a high school ; it educate people from kindergarten and all the way from four to 18 year old . it urge the Government " to recognise the historic and important role it have play in support girl ' education " and empower woman . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Ealing Central and Acton in London , declare that the Government should recognise the 150th anniversary of Notting Hill and Ealing High School on 16 September 2023 ; far that the ISI inspector report , " pupil ' achievement in curricular and extra - curricular activity and their learning be exceptional as be their attainment in national test at age 11 and at a Levels . " far note that the school thrive on allow individual to express themselves . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to celebrate the achievement of Notting Hill and Ealing High School , and to recognise the historic and important role it have play in support girl ' education . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002856 ] Residential Co - operative Power Production Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) I be grateful to have secure this debate to champion reform that be not only innovative but pragmatic : an idea that encapsulate the essence of empowerment , economic prudence and the responsible stewardship of our environment . at the heart of this vision be the unequivocal call to reconsider our approach to fund residential co - operative power production , in particular by not impose green levy on individual who choose to invest in their own renewable , no matter where in the country they may be . it be not just about fiscal prudence , but about put the power to shape our green energy future back into the hand of the people . we live in a time where large - scale wind and solar energy have emerge as the United Kingdom ' s most viable source of renewable electricity . yet what truly set this era apart be the exciting realisation that ordinary people , like you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I , can now own a share of a wind farm or a solar park . this be not merely a financial transaction ; it be an opportunity for each of we to become an active participant in shape the trajectory of the UK ' s energy landscape — a vision reminiscent of the transformative privatisation of the 1980 by the revolutionary Thatcher Government . consumer ownership of green energy asset go beyond mere financial gain ; it empower individual to play a pivotal role in the transition to net zero emission . it make tangible and accessible our personal contribution to , and the benefit from , that shift . so , how do it work ? the process be simple : as individual , we can purchase share in a renewable power production initiative , alongside thousand of other . we receive our share of the electricity generate , deliver directly to our home via the national grid . we experience tangible saving on our electricity bill each month for the entire lifespan of the asset . a grow number of consumer , both household and business , have take the bold step to invest in their own off - site green energy generation . they be not just secure energy independence for themselves ; they be contribute significantly to the UK ' s environmental target . these consumer invest by purchase share in residential co - operative power production initiative , bear their portion of upfront construction cost . owner of these share receive their share of the electricity generate , deliver to they via the grid . importantly , their energy supplier purchase this electricity at the low operating cost of the co - operative , rather than at the fluctuating wholesale market price . the result saving be then apply directly to the owner ' bill each month , stabilise cost over the long term . however , a glaring issue demand our immediate attention . consumer who invest in their own renewable power production have energy levy integrate directly into their electricity bill by virtue of the fact that they be purchase from the grid . contract for difference , feed - in tariff , green levy and so on all come off their bill . paradoxically , the levy mean that consumer who own their own green energy asset effectively subsidise the green power consumption of other . the energy levy serve as a significant deterrent to investment in consumer - own residential co - operative power . they hinder people from directly reap the reward of the UK ' s transition to net zero — a counterintuitive outcome , to say the least . my proposal be simple yet powerful : consumer who own share in off - site renewable power production should be grant an exemption from the levy . such a step could potentially reduce their bill by a remarkable 44 % . that would create a compelling incentive for consumer to invest in their own source of green power , unlock a new wave of personal private ownership of UK infrastructure . moreover , there be another aspect that warrant attention . a portion of the saving that consumer accumulate on their electricity bill be currently liable to taxation . the saving be treat as interest , and if they surpass their owner ' s annual interest allowance they become subject to taxation . the taxation of these saving serve as a significant deterrent to invest in energy ownership , as it add complexity and uncertainty to the financial picture . in develop a sustainable future , tax consumer ' bill saving from off - site renewable energy ownership be also counterproductive . I propose that we rectify it by exempt all bill saving from off - site green energy production from taxation . that would bring this into line with the treatment of home solar , create a level playing field for all renewable energy investment . member may be wonder about the potential cost impact , so let I be clear : if these energy levy and tax exemption do not induce people to invest in their own energy asset , there would be no cost at all to the Treasury or to other consumer . the scale of the cost impact hinge directly on the scale of the adoption of green energy ownership within the residential co - operative . if people do not invest , there will be no cost . to put that into perspective , if just 10 % of consumer decide to invest in such a manner , the levy impose on other consumer would increase by approximately 11 % — approximately £ 15 a year . these cost would be defer and the Treasury ' s revenue would be neutral for , probably , the next five or six quarter . to underscore the real - world impact of this proposal , let I share with the House a compelling case study . it concern a wind farm launch by Ripple Energy , not far from Cardiff and near my constituency of Bridgend , in Porthcawl . it be one of the first consumer - own wind farm , own collectively by 900 individual from across the country who invest an average of £ 2 , 200 each . it have be generate clean electricity since March 2022 , and have save its owner an average of £ 320 on their electricity bill , with project saving of about £ 970 in its second year . these substantial saving be attributable to the recent surge in electricity price . importantly , ownership of the wind farm have shield those individual from the price spike that have burden other consumer in recent time . if we look beyond the immediate financial and logistical benefit , we see that this proposal carry even more profound significance in the context of our nation ' s future . it position we on a path to energy independence and resilience against global energy price shock — vulnerability expose by international conflict and war such as what we be currently witness in Ukraine . in post - Brexit Britain , this initiative be emblematic of the british public take back control — take control of their energy future ; take control of their financial wellbeing ; and take control of our contribution to a greener , more sustainable world . it encapsulate the very essence of british self - reliance and national pride , align perfectly with the spirit of autonomy that Brexit have come to symbolise . beyond the immediate fiscal and environmental benefit , this proposal have the power to shape our society . it can foster a sense of collective purpose and unity as people from all walk of life come together to invest in our common future . imagine community rally around the prospect of own a share of a local wind farm or solar park . imagine school and university engage student in the process of renewable energy ownership , educate they about the importance of sustainability and self - reliance . picture a future when our energy landscape be dominate not solely by faceless corporation , but by the collective will of the people — a tapestry of interconnect , community - own energy asset that serve as symbol of resilience and sustainability . furthermore , in line with the Government ' s commitment to grow the economy , this initiative can act as a catalyst for innovation and job creation . as more and more consumer invest in green energy ownership , the demand for renewable energy technology will soar . this will spur research and development in the UK renewable sector , create new opportunity for scientist , engineer and entrepreneur . simultaneously , the growth of the consumer - own green energy sector will lead to the establishment of local energy co - operative and business , generate employment and economic growth in region across the UK . in a world where the challenge of climate change loom large , where global energy price be subject to geopolitical disruption and where the public ' s desire for self - determination have never be more pronounced , this proposal be a testament to our ability to take control of our life . it be a resounding declaration that we , the people of the United Kingdom , be not mere spectator in the unfold drama of our energy future ; we be its author and its protagonist . in conclusion , what we have before we be not merely a fiscal proposal , but a transformative vision ; one that empower individual , safeguard our energy future , and solidify our commitment to a sustainable tomorrow . by not tax green levy on those individual who choose to invest in their own renewable , we would be give power back to the people , and ensure that everyone could partake in our collective journey toward a more sustainable , fair and more resilient tomorrow . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bridgend ( Dr Wallis ) on secure this important debate , and thank he for share his thought during the conversation that we be able to have ahead of it . as we hear in his moving and well - think - out speech , he have continue to be a champion in this regard . I want to begin by assure he that the Government recognise the importance of empower local community to come together to deliver renewable energy project for their area , be that put solar panel on school roof , set up electric vehicle charger in local community or develop residential power production use hydro , say , to power a village . my hon . friend have raise a concern that people who invest in their own renewable energy be still require to pay the green levy that be part of their energy bill and he make an appeal that they should cease to do so . levy more than pay for themselves by drive investment in renewable . he mention the fact that large - scale renewable have drive down cost enormously over the last decade or so , not least through our contract for difference scheme , which this government be very proud of . these levy provide vital support to low - income and vulnerable household and , because of the way they have be use in the system , they have save consumer money on their energy bill overall over the past 10 year . have a fair system rely on everyone be part of it . if consumer anywhere be reliant on the infrastructure that be develop by the whole , there be a strong case that they should contribute to that whole ; otherwise , there be a danger of create a system that be the opposite of what my hon . friend seek — namely , a system that be less fair , in which people can buy their way out of a system that be design to cater for all . the Government be commit to ensure that the cost of the UK ' s transition to net zero be fair and affordable for all energy consumer and , over the past decade , environmental and social scheme have be instrumental in drive the decarbonisation of the system . it be fair that all consumer should contribute towards the cost of these scheme , as the UK ' s transition to abundant low - carbon energy over the come decade will bring benefit to household and business everywhere . our recent exposure to volatile global gas price underscore the importance of our plan to build a strong home - grow renewable energy sector in order far to reduce our reliance on fossil fuel , but one that , importantly , ensure that everyone everywhere , whether or not they can invest in their own local renewable energy , be protect and look after . some billpayer - fund scheme be important for tackle fuel poverty by provide financial support or home upgrade to low income and vulnerable household . we do not wish to see a system in which people can withdraw from support that . Ofgem , the energy regulator in Great Britain , administer renewable energy and social scheme on behalf of the Government and ensure that policy target be meet in as economical and consumer - friendly a way as possible . a list of the current environmental and social scheme that be fund through those bill can be find on Ofgem ' s website . in response to my hon . friend ' s point about change the tax rule specifically on bill saving from off - site renewable ownership — he will know what be come — I have no choice but to comment that taxation be a matter not for I but for the Chancellor . however , I would like to reassure he that we see value in , and support , community energy , include co - operative that come together to create community energy project such as Graig Fatha , which he mention . they play a role in our effort to eliminate our contribution to climate change . the Government offer a range of support to that type of project , perhaps just slightly different in nature to the one that he have so passionately espouse today . they include the brilliant new £ 10 million community energy fund . this enable both rural and urban community across England to access grant funding to develop local renewable energy project for investment . the community energy fund follow on from the success of the rural community energy fund , which be deliver through our local net zero hub and have fund several innovative project . an example be Swaffham prior in east Cambridgeshire , a pioneer project in a village of around 300 home . it be one of the first village in the UK to install a heating network into the exist infrastructure . in order to get more brilliant project such as Swaffham Prior set up , we be aim to launch application to the community energy fund as soon as possible . I recognise that the community energy fund be open only to community in England . this be because the devolve nation have their own support scheme for community energy . for instance , the Welsh Government have the Energy Service , which work with both the public sector and community enterprise to reduce energy use , to generate locally own renewable energy and to reduce carbon emission . similarly , the Scottish Government ' s community and renewable energy scheme support community across Scotland to engage with , participate in and benefit from the energy transition to net zero . community energy funding be available alongside UK - wide growth funding , and we encourage community energy group and residential co - operative to work closely with their local authority to support the development of community energy project within these scheme . the UK share prosperity fund support intervention that reinforce our commitment to reach net zero , and that include £ 2 . 6 billion of funding for investment in place , include for community infrastructure project . an example of that be West Devon District Council , which have be among the local area to benefit from this type of UK growth funding . it receive £ 1 . 1 million under the share prosperity fund , which include provision to support community energy group , help they to bring project forward and to access fund to support their goal . I entirely share the vision and the aspiration set out by my hon . friend , and we have measure in place to ensure that can be bring to reality . beyond this , Ofgem also support community energy project and be now welcome application from community interest group , co - operative society and community benefit society to the industry voluntary redress scheme , which be much more helpful than its name suggest . this allow group to apply for fund to deliver energy - relate project that support energy consumer in vulnerable situation , that support decarbonisation and that benefit people in England , Scotland and Wales . we also regularly engage with the community energy sector through the community energy contact group . this be our central engagement method to stay in touch with community energy , to hear from the voice of that community and to allow the people involve to feed into Government policy . I know many member , include my hon . friend , will have support the Local Electricity Bill and the amendment on community energy that be table on the Energy Bill . during the passage of the Energy Bill , which I be delighted to say have now complete its Commons stage , the Government carefully consider the amendment that seek to ensure a right to local supply . we set out the reason why we be unable to accept those amendment and why it be not right to do so , which include ensure the good outcome for consumer and the sector overall , but the Government recognise that community energy project have real benefit for the community in which they be base and for the nation as a whole , and we be keen to ensure that they deliver value for money for consumer nationally and locally alike . we have work closely with many parliamentarian and the community energy sector to develop commitment that will well support the development of this type of energy . these commitment include the launch of the £ 10 million community energy fund , which I have already mention , alongside which we have commit to publish an annual report and to consult on the barrier that the sector face when develop project , precisely to ensure that we can have more of they . we be work with the sector through the community energy contact group so that we have the most effective route available and so that we make it as easy for community to understand the help that be available in the system . I close by thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate and for the manner in which he open it . I be proud of the wide range of support that the Government offer to community energy group across the country . this support enable local community group to come together to deliver renewable energy project for their area , include in residential co - operative . I share the vision that my hon . friend set out , and I look forward to work closely with he , in Wales , Scotland , England and right across the United Kingdom , to see that vision make even more of a reality than it be today . question put and agree to . House adjourn . deferred Division exit the European Union that the draft Windsor Framework ( Enforcement etc . ) regulation 2023 , which be lay before this House on 4 September , be approve . Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Hilary Benn Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Graham Brady Suella Braverman Kevin Brennan Jack Brereton Sara Britcliffe Lyn Brown Nick Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Rob Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Alan Campbell Andy Carter Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Neil Coyle Stephen Crabb Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Edward Davey Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Steve Double Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield David Duguid Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith James Grundy Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Emma Hardy Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Mark Hendrick Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes George Howarth Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Alister Jack Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Simon Jupp Mike Kane Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Greg Knight Ben Lake David Lammy John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Simon Lightwood Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Esther McVey Ian Mearns Johnny Mercer Ed Miliband Maria Miller Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan David Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft James Murray Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Charlotte Nichols Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Mark Pawsey Stephanie Peacock Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Andrew Percy Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Lee Rowley Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle David Rutley Liz Saville - Roberts Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Alok Sharma Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Chloe Smith Henry Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Jamie Stone Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Maggie Throup Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Jon Trickett Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Derek Twigg Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Mick Whitley Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Gregory Campbell Christopher Chope Paul Girvan Jonathan Gullis Carla Lockhart Matthew Offord Ian Paisley Jnr Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Sammy Wilson the House divide : Ayes 434 , Noes 10 . question accordingly agree to .