I be pleased to respond to the debate . when my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , the former Schools Minister and now the Chair of the Education Committee , say that he have apply for the debate , I welcome it because I want a good debate on further education . despite the kind word of the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , I do not know if he be quite the secret weapon I would take with I when I have negotiation with the Treasury , but his point be well make . I hear a lot of rhetoric from the shadow spokesperson , the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) . warm word butter no parsnip . last year , FE Week report that : " labour can not commit to boost fe funding level " . the article go on to say that speak to FE Week , the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) " say the economic landscape have change significantly and could not pledge any uplift in cash for further education or address the disparity between FE and high education funding until the economic outlook be clear . " so despite what the hon . member for Chesterfield say , the opposition be not guarantee any uplift in further education funding . I thank the hon . member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) for open the debate . she be passionate about adult education ; I be with she and I understand the absolute importance of community learn . I have see that in my own constituency and I champion it in the Department . I will say more about adult and community learn later in my remark , but look at all the programme together — the skill boot camp , the level 3 offer , Multiply and adult apprenticeship — we be spend well over £ 3 billion . my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) as well as the hon . member for Wirral West raise the issue of community learning , which have actually increase over the past year . if we look at the key focus , we will see that , in the 2021 - 22 academic year , 304 , 000 learner participate in a community learn course , compare with 243 , 000 in the 2020 - 21 academic year . that be an increase of 24 . 9 % . I have other figure that I could quote , but that do not mean that everything in the garden be rosy . we be do a lot of work to try to support adult and tailor learning , which I will go on to discuss a bit later in my speech . I be experience a bit of d é j à vu here . this time last year , I believe that I be the Chair of the Education Committee lead the estimate debate , and my hon . friend the Member for Worcester be answer it . what we say here be , I think , touch é . what I would say to he be that , absolutely , he have make a valid case for funding for further education , as have many other member . I will go on to talk about that a bit later in my remark . I also think that it be important that we do not paint just a partial picture . we should look at the 10 % uplift in t - level funding , the £ 300 million that we be spend on institutes of technology , the £ 115 million spending on high technical qualification , which be now be teach in more than 70 institution , the £ 2 . 7 billion that we will be spend on apprenticeship by 2025 , the up to £ 500 million that be be spend on Multiply , and the many million of pound be spend on boot camp . billion and billion of pound be be spend on skill , which be absolutely right . it be right , too , to make the case for ever more resource — I always champion more resource — but it be important to paint the whole picture , not just a partial one . there be many good thing happen , and it be fair to acknowledge that . the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) raise the issue of btec , as do my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee . he be resolute on this , so I will be quite resolute in return . btec have already be delay . they have already be review , and be be review . there will be a significant number of btec that remain . we have specifically introduce the t - level transition year , the whole purpose of which be to prepare those student for t - level , because , as be rightly say by my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) , T - level be hard . but there be now a t - level transition year , and more than 60 institution be teach it , and there will be another 70 along the way to prepare student . importantly , we be remove some btec and other qualification that have low uptake or poor progression . the hon . member for Twickenham mention the tourism qualification . I shall write to she with the detail and the figure . I shall also come on to childcare in a bit because of the brilliant speech by my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) . as I be say , though , we be remove t - level that have low uptake or not great progression , or that significantly overlap with other t - level . the whole purpose of this be that we have create employer - lead qualification through our apprenticeship reform . the t - level and the high technical qualification be all employer - design with the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ; I be proud to legislate for they in my last stint in this role . employer will be able to develop new qualification . for example , if they want to , they could develop a new tourism qualification . there be another important issue , which have come up time and again . I have say that some btec will remain . I recognise that disadvantaged student be do some of these btec , but we go down a very dangerous road if we say that we want to keep some qualification because disadvantaged student do they , and the other one , the middle class and everybody else can do . that be a dangerous road , because I do not want to have two - tier qualification : some for the disadvantaged and other for the middle class and the well - off . what I want , and what I have devote my whole parliamentary life to , be to develop state of the art , world - beat vocational and technical qualification that be as good as , if not well than , a - level . that be what be important . that be how I would respond , politely but robustly , to my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee . first , as I say , a significant number of btec remain and will remain . there be new qualification that can be develop so that those who do not pass will be able to do some other qualification at level 3 , or they may want to do a level 2 or level 3 apprenticeship instead . there will be option for those people , but we could make the same argument about those people who fail a - level . we should not just have one rule for t - level and another rule for those do a - level . I will come on to funding , because every hon . Member have raise that . the hon . member for Sheffield , Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) talk about it , and I be pleased that she have have more £ 7 million invest in Sheffield City College . my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) be thoughtful as always ; we have talk a lot about skill over the year and I reiterate that we be champion quality qualification , which will address the skill deficit , and introduce lifelong learning through the lifelong loan entitlement . the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) again talk about funding ; I will come on to that , and I be happy to write to he about the specific issue that he raise regard Trafford College . I be pleased to meet my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) and the principal of Reaseheath College . land college have be beneficiary of important capital funding and I know the college have receive more than £ 6 . 5 million . I say in that meeting that I would work with my hon . and learn Friend on the issue he have raise and I will continue to do so as much as I possibly can . the hon . member for Twickenham talk about the skill wallet , and we do have a difference here . I have sympathy with many of the thing she say and I genuinely admire she for her knowledge of education and skill , but we look at the skill wallet and , as I understand it , it give every adult £ 10 , 000 to spend on training , but with incremental payment , start with £ 4 , 000 at age 25 , £ 3 , 000 at age 40 and the final £ 3 , 000 at age 55 . that would mean that learner would be constrain by when the funding become available . we want to be fair to student and fair to the taxpayer . our lifelong loan entitlement will be transformative , because everyone will have access to up to £ 37 , 000 that they can take any time up to the age of 60 . there be 12 entry point and they can do short course or module of course . I have nothing but incredible admiration for the way my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire champion early year . I have good news for she , because when I find out she be on the list to speak in this debate , I want to be sure about what we be do on early year skill — as my Department official , who be watch , will know . to let my right hon . friend know what be go on , there be a lot . the first - ever national professional qualification in early year leadership cohort begin in October 2022 and the second cohort commence in February 2023 . the employer trailblazer group have develop level 2 and level 3 apprenticeship , but we now have a level 5 apprenticeship and we fund more than 20 childcare course through our free course for job offer . some 2 , 000 learner start t - level in education and childcare in September 2022 , and there be a load of early year high technical qualification . there be masse go on , so we will have the train workforce that she passionately and rightly talk about , right across that sector . my right hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Sir David Evennett ) have great experience and wisdom . he too talk about funding , and he will know that his college — I think it be the London South East Colleges group — have have £ 24 . 5 million since 2020 . I think the shadow Minister have also have £ 18 million in capital funding for Chesterfield College in his constituency ; again , that be a brilliant investment by the Government that no doubt he will be celebrate to the rafter . I have mention the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington . I appreciate the way in which he say what he do . we have spending constraint , but I will talk more about those in a moment . my hon . friend the Member for Waveney speak powerfully about the skill revolution in his area . my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby make a brilliant speech . there be a lot that I agree with . on the math to 18 issue , I be one of those people who have a fear of math . I pass my math o - level , but it take I three month and a second time around — I be slightly dyspraxic ; it be a nightmare . it be wrong that I be tell that I would never have to do it again . we should have practical numeracy — basic numeracy , times table and so on — and what I call numerical literacy , so that people can read bill and understand budget . that would help those who have difficulty . of course , any math teaching should promote career in mathematic . I think that the Prime Minister be right : we must have math to 18 along the principle that he set out in his speech . I absolutely believe in that . the experience of my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby be clear to see . this be an estimate day debate , so we have to talk about fact and figure . the DFE ' s resource budget be about £ 86 billion — an uplift of more than £ 2 billion since the spending review — and £ 9 billion be directly link to apprenticeship and further education . apprenticeship be a key rung on what I call — colleague have nicely quote it back at I — " the ladder of opportunity " . we redesign the programme in partnership with industry . there be now accredit route to more than 670 occupation , from entry level to expert . government funding for apprenticeship will reach £ 2 . 7 billion by 2024 - 25 , as I have mention , and that money be reach the economy . the hon . member for Twickenham mention the apprenticeship budget . we spend 99 % of the apprenticeship budget , and let we not forget that we send hundred of million to the devolved authority , so the levy be be use . I can give she a raft of quote from business that be supportive of the levy . the opposition quote one or two business here and there that perhaps want it to be a skill levy , but — I have to disagree with the hon . Lady and the shadow Minister — a skill levy would mean no apprentice or a diluted number of apprentice . we be spend billion of pound on skill . I have already give the figure on that . as the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester , mention , the Association of Colleges have call for 50 % of the apprenticeship levy to be spend on apprentice at level 2 and 3 , who be below the age of 25 . under - 25s make up 50 % of start in 2021 - 22 ; 70 % of start be at level 2 and 3 , provide an entry - level springboard into work . contrary to the bad news set out by the shadow spokesman , we have have a 22 % increase in apprenticeship achievement in the academic year — that be what count : achievement . the 90 % who achieve get good job when they finish their apprenticeship . there be 8 . 6 % more start in 2021 - 22 than in 2021 . we be push and encourage more degree apprenticeship . they be a brilliant route up the ladder . we be now put in £ 40 million over the next couple of year — it be £ 8 million previously — to encourage provider to take up more student for degree apprenticeship . my goodness , what a brilliant visit we have to the college in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) . anyone who want an example of t - level success should go to Loughborough College , where state - of - the - art t - level be be teach brilliantly — include healthcare T - level , create a pipeline for future NHS worker — and an institute of technology be be build . it be an honour to lay the groundwork . as I mention , we be spend £ 300 million on 21 institute of technology around the country , of which there be already 12 . they be the Rolls - Royce of further education in collaboration with high education and big and small business , and an example of the Government ' s commitment to skill and of the investment in the skill that we need for the future . sadly , I understand that the principal be leave Loughborough College , but I be sure that the college will find a principal who be just as brilliant as she to take over . I mention the high technical qualification and new and exist level 4 and 5 . we have the t - level . yes , there be delay in some of they , but we want to get they right . we have 164 provider across the country , and 10 , 000 student start t - level in 2022 — that be more than double the 2021 figure . we will roll out t - level in 2024 - 25 so that more young people can benefit from those high - quality qualification . More than 92 % of student achieve a pass .