Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Animal Disease Outbreaks what step he be take to help prevent animal disease outbreak . good morning . can I start by acknowledge the expertise that the hon . Gentleman bring to the House ? we be invest in the Animal and Plant Health Agency , and have commit more than £ 200 million to the next stage of rebuild our biosecurity facility at Weybridge to enhance our ability to understand , detect , prevent , respond to and recover from outbreak . that be in addition to support farmer through the animal health and welfare pathway , which include veterinary visit to improve livestock health , welfare , biosecurity and productivity . I thank the Minister for his comment . the recent National Audit Office report be hugely concern , and it be clear that the UK be at high risk of , and unprepared for , a major animal disease outbreak . Post - Brexit check mean that only 5 % of animal be physically check as they come into the UK . we know that a lot of illegal meat be come in through the port , and our farm animal veterinary workforce be overstretch . also , climate change and antimicrobial resistance be put we at a high risk of disease outbreak . if a disease such as foot and mouth hit again , it will devastate british agriculture and rural community , and have an impact on our food security . can the Minister assure we that the Government be treat the issue that the report raise as a strategic national threat , and that its warning will not be ignore until it be too late ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we take this matter extremely seriously . sadly , it be not a new problem . we have have similar report in the past , and I can assure he that we be give careful consideration to this report . we will develop a plan to address it . he will be aware that there be a range of threat , and it be important that we balance our work . we have take strong measure to restrict personal import , give the threat on the continent . as the House will know , sadly the epicentre of the UK bluetongue outbreak be in my South Norfolk constituency , so biosecurity be a huge issue for my farmer . will we look to lower our biosecurity risk by return to check product at the Bastion Point inland border security centre at the White Cliffs business park , which be close to the border point , instead of product have to travel nearly 17 mile before they be check ? I thank my hon . friend and relatively near neighbour . he be right to raise the bluetongue issue , which have be deal with effectively by our official . his point about border control and check be under close consideration , partly as a consequence of our new arrangement with the European Union . many Welsh farmer in mid - Wales depend on be able to move their livestock back and forth over the border with England . indeed , 550 farm straddle the border . the imposition of a veterinary hard border between England and Wales will be damaging for the farming community in my constituency and the local economy that they support . farmer simply can not afford to pay £ 70 a beast for testing , and apparently there be not even enough testing capacity for all the livestock that cross the border anyway . what step be the Minister take to address the situation , and to prevent Welsh farmer from lose out ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to ask that question . as I just reference , the bluetongue issue have be serious and difficult . we have make a sensible decision for England , and the approach we have take have manage to control the spread . the decision in Wales be obviously a matter for the Welsh Government , and I be sure that he would understand that I respect that decision . we be talk about how we can resolve the difficult issue that he have raise . I be deeply distressed that the Government be plan to extend the badger cull , because the evidence show that with good testing and biosecurity , we can bring down rate of tuberculosis . I hear what the representative from Gatcombe farm say when they visit Parliament just a couple of week ago . will the Minister look at the evidence ? before move forward with a badger cull , will he look at biosecurity measure that could ensure that we really get on top of bovine TB ? I can assure my hon . friend that we be not extend the badger cull . we have a clear commitment to end the badger cull in this Parliament , and I will visit Gatcombe with other in the week ahead . we be take an evidence - base approach . we also have to make sure that we help farmer tackle a distressing and difficult disease . I call the shadow Minister . this month , the National Audit Office ' s " resilience to animal disease " report lay bare the startling reality about our biosecurity , state : " Defra and APHA would struggle to manage a more severe outbreak or concurrent serious outbreak " , and the risk of site failure at the APHA site at Weybridge be at its maximum rating . as I have raise 16 time in this Parliament , a fully fund and urgent rebuild of apha in Weybridge be critical . it get no mention at all by the Chancellor in the spending review ; it merely have repeat partial funding from the Department . when will the Government wake up , get a grip , and press on with this vital project as soon as possible , before disaster strike ? the hon . Gentleman know that I take this issue very seriously . I gently point out to he that this exact situation be point out by the National Audit Office during the last Parliament . the previous Government have 14 year to get the principle in place , so I will not take any lesson from the Conservatives . I can tell he that we have a £ 208 million investment this year ; that be what be ask for . I can assure he that there will be fund in future , because we take biosecurity very seriously . Chalk Streams what step he be take to help restore chalk stream . chalk stream be not only a beautiful and iconic part of our precious natural landscape ; they be symbol of our national heritage . the protection and restoration of our cherish chalk stream be a core ambition in our overall programme of reform to the water sector . I be grateful to the Minister for her response . in Hampshire , we be bless with several rare and irreplaceable chalk stream , include the River Loddon , the River Itchen and the River Test . the Minister will be aware of the campaign to secure great protection for these irreplaceable habitat , include during the passage of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , and I pay tribute to the Hampshire & Isle of Wight Wildlife Trust , Greener Basingstoke , and Natural Basingstoke for all their work . can the Minister confirm that this Government be commit to the protection of chalk stream , and set out what further step they will take to restore these precious habitat ? my hon . friend be quite right : chalk stream be a source of beauty and national pride . just a few week ago , I have the privilege of visit a chalk stream restoration project with Charles Rangeley - Wilson , who be a passionate campaigner for chalk stream . under this Labour Government , water company will spend more than £ 2 billion to deliver over 1 , 000 action for chalk stream restoration , and will reduce their abstraction from chalk stream by 126 million litre per day . the River Chess in Rickmansworth be one of the chalk stream that go through my constituency . the volunteer at the Rickmansworth Waterways Trust be keep our canal heritage alive , despite funding for the Canal & River Trust be cut . I believe the cut be short - sighted , because these waterway tackle water shortage , boost biodiversity and protect 2 , 500 mile of national asset for a modest cost . will the Minister rethink the funding cut and back the Fund Britain ' s Waterways campaign , so that local champion like David Montague and his team at Batchworth lock be not leave to sink or swim on their own ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right to say how important volunteer be in support our natural environment up and down the country . he will be aware that the decision to reduce the funding for the Canal & River Trust be take by the previous Government , and that be extend under this Government . there will be a tapering off of some of the funding , but we continue to support water project up and down the country . as I have already mention , the change that we be introduce for water company will help to protect not only our beautiful chalk stream , but all our river , lake and sea . nature - friendly Farming what step he be take to ensure that nature - friendly farming funding scheme be accessible . on 11 June , we commit to the large ever investment in nature . funding for the environmental land management scheme will increase to £ 2 billion per annum by 2028 - 29 , and we now have more farmer than ever in nature - friendly farming scheme , which we should all be pleased about . we be reform the sustainable farming incentive to target fund fairly and effectively , and to ensure that , in those scheme , the user experience be absolutely prioritise . farmer in my constituency of Frome and East Somerset have have to deal with constantly change information regard the sustainable farming incentive . we welcome the news that the Government have allow those who start their application between January and March to submit it now , but when it come to sustainable farming and nature recovery , what support be in place for those who have not submit or start their application ? the hon . Lady will appreciate that we inherit a scheme that do not have proper budgetary control . once the money be spend , none be available to people who have yet to come into the scheme . we have deal with the administrative problem of those who have expect to benefit when they apply . we be plan to make an announcement in the next few week , in which we will explain the future scheme for people who be interested . we very much want to get more people in . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Lord Don Curry ' s recent report on a sustainable farming model for the future be send to the Secretary of State early this month . have the Secretary of State and the Minister read it yet ? do they agree with I and Lord Curry that the UK be in a dangerously precarious position , give that we produce domestically only 55 % of the food we need , and that we be therefore not food secure and need an urgent plan for food security ? will he meet I and the noble Lord to examine this industry - wide report , and start the process of put Britain on the path to food security ? I think the hon . Gentleman know I well enough to know that when a report from Lord Curry arrive in my inbox , I read it . I do so , with great interest . I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman that we be not food secure — the food security report produce at the end of last year explain this very carefully — but I be always willing and happy to discuss these issue with he and Lord Curry . fruit and Vegetables aid Scheme what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the closure of the fruit and vegetable aid scheme on fruit and vegetable grower . the fruit and vegetable aid scheme be an EU legacy scheme , and it close in England on 1 January 2026 . it be available only via producer organisation — that be an EU requirement — and only 20 % of grower be benefit from it ; 80 % get no benefit . all grower will continue to benefit from the farming innovation programme ' s £ 63 million of grant , and the five - year extension to the seasonal worker visa scheme that we have announce . in my constituency , I have Busby , the big strawberry and raspberry farm in Leicestershire . it use the fruit and vegetable aid scheme , which be due to run out at the end of 2025 , in order to invest and innovate . the Government have be in power for one year ; they write to I in May , say they have " plan to simplify and rationalise agriculture grant " , but we have six month to go before the scheme end , and Busby still do not know what its future funding will look like . what be replace the scheme , so that Busby can carry on grow the fine strawberry and raspberry in Leicestershire ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to praise our fruit - grow sector . it have be know for a long time that this scheme be come to an end , and I be afraid the truth be that it do not provide very good value for money . we will replace it as part of our new food strategy , and announcement on that will be come down the line . however , I be slightly surprised to hear that he be so keen to preserve an EU - base scheme . who know that there be Opposition Members still hanker to be in the EU ? Water Company Fines : Water Restoration Fund if he will make it his policy to redistribute fine levy against water company since November 2023 to the water restoration fund . this Labour Government have launch the large ever crackdown against poorly behave water company . as part of this operation , Ofwat have hit Thames Water with a £ 100 million fine , which be the big in british history . I be delighted to confirm today that fine collect by regulator will be directly invest in project , lead by community up and down the country , to clean up our river , lake and sea . I thank the Minister for her answer on the water restoration fund , but it would be good to know when it will come back into action . a liberal Democrat freedom of information request find that Ofwat have fail to force water company to pay any fine for sewage discharge case since 2021 , despite sewage be pump into waterway for over 3 . 6 million hour last year alone . meanwhile , water company boss earn a collective total of £ 20 million in the 2023 - 24 financial year . the water restoration fund provide valuable fund to local community to improve water quality and river health . when will the Government stand up to the water company , make they pay for the damage they be inflict on our environment , and ringfence this money for community , so that they can protect and improve their waterway ? I thank the hon . Lady , but with respect , the response be in my original answer . as I confirm , the water restoration fund be continue as plan . successful project have be notify , and money have be announce and give . as I have state , all the money collect from water fine will be divert into nature project to help clean up our river , lake and sea across the country — and yes , that money will be ringfence . the interim Cunliffe report on the water sector have highlight weak , disjointed and reactive regulation by various regulator . if the commission ' s final finding confirm the assessment of the regulator , can the Minister confirm that she will act swiftly and decisively to reform regulation of our water company ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the important work that the commission have be do . I do not want to get ahead of any announcement the commission may make — it be not long to wait now , Mr Speaker ; it be only a few week — but clearly regulation have not be work , so action be need . fly - tip what step he be take to tackle fly - tipping . fly - tipping sky - rocket under the Conservative Government . this Labour Government will crack down on the waste cowboy in order to clean up Britain ' s street . we will support council in seize and crush their vehicle . we will use drone and CCTV to hunt down the fly - tipper , force they to clean up their mess , and we will bring in new prison sentence for those transport waste illegally . I be delighted to tell the House that we be begin the clean - up of the disgraceful fly - tipping in Hoads Wood site of special scientific interest , which happen under the previous Government . that work be ongoing . I thank the Minister for her very strong answer . recently , I have be make aware of a recur incident of fly - tipping in Bedwell , in the heart of my constituency . the council be work very hard to clear up the mess and find those responsible , but the situation be be make bad by people pick up that rubbish and take it to the nearby wood . will the Minister offer extra support to council like mine , so that together we can clean up our community and crack down on criminal who think that they can dump their waste with impunity , wreck the life of constituent like mine , and make their life a live hell ? I have the great sympathy for my hon . friend ' s constituent . I encourage Stevenage borough council to work with our National Fly - tipping Prevention Group , which share good practice on tackle fly - tipping . we be also take direct action on some of the littered item , because once there be litter , people think that they can fly - tip , and then they think that they can dump . that be why we have ban the sale of single - use vape from 1 June , and I stand ready to work with his council . when it come to crack down on litter and fly - tipping , I would welcome anything the Government do . however , during proceeding on the Crime and Policing Bill , which pass through this place this week , Government Members have ample opportunity to accept various new clause and amendment that would ensure strict tackling of litter and fly - tipping , but fail to do so . what message do that send to those who go around tossing litter and fly - tipping , and , importantly , to the many volunteer in constituency like mine who work day in , day out , to clear up that litter ? we have say that we will use exist power to create clean - up squad , which will force the waste criminal to clear up their mess . it be a little rich of the conservative party , after 14 year of failure , to attack we after just 10 month in government . we have say that we be change the carrier , broker and dealer regime to tighten up arrangement relate to who can carry and transport waste , because the Conservatives leave we a paper - base system that be open to fraud . access to nature : young People what step he be take to improve young people ' s access to nature for outdoor activity . I thank my hon . friend , who be a distinguished mountaineer and mountain guide , for his personal courage and bravery in climb various very tall mountain , and for championing access to the outdoor . the Government be introduce the national youth guarantee and invest £ 1 . 5 million in bursary to help disadvantage young people to access the great outdoors . we can not love what we do not know , so we be delighted to be introduce the new natural history GCSE , in order to build on the UK ' s unrivalled history and research in this area . I thank the Minister for acknowledge the power of the outdoors . I should say that I have fail to climb many more mountain than I ever actually get up . many of the lesson I learn in the mountain be the reason why I be here today . the power of the outdoor in build confidence and resilience among young people be enormous . I be so pleased that 244 young people in Rossendale and Darwen be , right now , take part in the Duke of Edinburgh ' s award scheme ; that be fantastic . for many , discover the power of nature can be life - change . nationally , the evidence of the benefit of outdoor recreation be extensive and unarguable , yet for too many , access to the outdoors remain limited , and 20 million people do not live within 15 minute of green and blue space . do the Secretary of State and the Minister agree that a key ambition of access legislation must be access for all ? the Government be absolutely committed to extend access , which be why we have commit to create nine new national river walk and three national forest , the first of which be the western forest , which I have the pleasure of plant a tree in a couple of month ago . we be also designate Wainwright ' s coast - to - coast walk as a national trail . my hon . friend be right about the Duke of Edinburgh ' s award scheme , which my daughter will be take part in this summer . we support the award , which aim to reach a quarter of a million more young people by next year . the river and coastline in my constituency be treasure by local family and child , include my own , whether they be kayak and paddleboarde on the Cuckmere and Ouse river or swim off the beach of Seaford bay , yet they be regularly blight by sewage discharge courtesy of Southern Water . will the Minister meet I to discuss our local campaign to secure bathing water status for the Cuckmere river and blue flag status for Seaford beach to reassure local family and visitor alike that we be take water quality seriously , so that they can be confident that they can use these outdoor space safely ? I would be delighted to offer up the Water Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , to meet the hon . gentleman on that issue . I would just say that the King Charles III coastal path will open up a quarter of a million hectare of open access land on the coast — I know that Lewes be very close to some of that spectacular scenery . public Bodies : British Produce what step he be take to encourage public body to prioritise the purchase of british produce . we have a strong ambition that half of all food purchase across the public sector should be locally produce or certify to high environmental standard . the new national procurement policy statement require Government contract to favour product that be certify to high environmental standard , which we believe british producer , operate to high standard , will be well place to supply . both beef and crop farmer in my constituency tell I how important it be to produce high - quality food and contribute to UK food security . can the Minister outline what conversation he have have with public body to encourage they to prioritise purchase local british produce , and to maximise the social value of UK food production ? I thank my hon . friend and relatively near neighbour for her question . we be in constant dialogue to achieve exactly that objective . she will have notice last week ' s announcement on the extension of free school meal to everyone on universal credit , which be a key plank of our food strategy . it be exactly those kind of initiative that we think will benefit british producer . many GB - base horticultural company , as well as other company , want to supply british produce into Northern Ireland , but have difficulty with the bureaucracy and paperwork require by the procedure implement some year ago . will the Minister operate in concert with his colleague in Cabinet and Government to eliminate the bureaucratic problem that be prevent those company from supply UK citizen in Northern Ireland ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . it be exactly why we want to improve our relationship with the European Union . we have negotiate and be undertake further negotiation to improve those system to very much help people to achieve that . we genuinely believe there be real opportunity here if we can eliminate some of the unnecessary bureaucracy . River Pollution what step he be take to tackle river pollution . my hon . friend will be aware that we inherit record level of sewage pollution in our waterway from the previous Government . since the election , we have launch the big crackdown on water pollution in history : unfair bonus have be ban for water company executive , and water boss who cover up pollution crime now face up to two year in prison . we will also invest a record £ 104 billion of private funding to upgrade crumble sewage pipe and reduce discharge by nearly 50 % within five year . I remain extremely grateful for the £ 100 million of support the Government have give to the River Wye action plan — a pioneer joint effort between the UK and Welsh Governments — but we must do more , include use sustainable farming initiative to support farmer to look at their stocking rate . I be concern by report of Thames Water seek regulatory easement . can the Secretary of State assure I that this Government will continue to crack down on water pollution from all source , in the Wye , the Thames and all across the UK ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and I understand her concern . I reassure she that the Government will always act in the national interest on these issue . Thames Water must meet its statutory and regulatory obligation to its customer and to the environment — it be only right that the company be subject to the same consequence as any other water company . the company remain financially stable , but we have step up our preparation and stand ready for all eventuality , as I have say before , include a special administration regime , if that be to become necessary . as the Secretary of State know , my constituency of North Herefordshire be very seriously affect by water pollution in the Lugg and the Wye . I confess that I be disappointed that , in both his answer to the hon . member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) , he do not mention agricultural pollution at all . that be despite the fact that agriculture be the main source of water pollution in the country , as be show in the report of the Independent Water Commission , which unfortunately be not allow to look into it in any detail . I pay tribute to River Action , which this week win a court case force planning authority to consider the cumulative impact of industrial agricultural development , and to Greenpeace , which last week point out the impact of toxic sewage sludge . will he confirm whether he be update the farming rule for water ? give that he have cut the budget of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs — Order . I be sorry , but we be over time as it be . the hon . member will be aware that we be support work in the Wye catchment area to deal with those problem , but she be quite right in what she say . the environmental land management scheme support farmer to reduce agricultural run - off . we be make the announcement that she just mention today , and we be also support the elm scheme , which help farmer to improve their soil quality so that the soil hold more water , and to use less fertiliser and pesticide , which reduce the amount of run - off . therefore , we be take action on agricultural pollution , and the announcement that she ask for be be make today . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . last week , the Minister for Water and Flooding and I attend the United Nations ocean conference in Nice . we announce that the Government will introduce a Bill by the end of the year to ratify the high seas treaty , deliver on our commitment to protect 30 % of the ocean by 2030 . this agreement will provide the first legal mechanism to create protect area in international water . the UK reiterate our commitment to agree an ambitious plastic pollution treaty in Geneva this come August , and we have outline our plan to ban bottom trawl across more of our English sea in marine protect area . these measure will protect sensitive seabed habitat and important specie from the destruction cause by this damaging practice . the Beddington energy recovery facility have an outstanding request to increase its annual permit tonnage to 382 , 000 tonne from the originally approve 300 , 000 tonne when planning be approve . I know the Secretary of State be familiar with this , as the facility be a mere 100 metre from his constituency . may I ask he whether the Environment Agency will listen to local resident , include his own , and to council across Sutton , Merton , Croydon and Kingston and refuse the permit expansion , as sufficient incinerator capacity already exist in London ? as the hon . Member say , I do know of this situation because the facility be adjacent to my constituency as well . he will know that I can not comment on what the Environment Agency be intend to do , because it be its decision . none the less , I certainly agree with he that the EA must listen to constituent and people live in the local area who will be affect by this decision . whether it be cheap vape litter our park and town centre , or fly - tipping block country lane in Norton Canes , my constituent be rightly feed up with waste crime . my local council have have to deal with 1 , 500 instance of fly - tipping in the past three year , and it be all too often pay for by taxpayer , not criminal . will the Minister tell we what the Government be do to get tough on waste crime ? we have announce plan to tighten up the regulation of those who transport and manage waste , move they from a light - touch regime into a permit system , which give the Environment Agency a great range of power . it will also introduce the possibility of up to five year in prison for those who breach the new law . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to cover for the shadow Secretary of State , who be speak to farmer at the 140th Lincolnshire Agricultural Show . have visit many such show myself , include North Sheep 2025 and cereal 2025 just last week , may I say how disappointed I be by the Secretary of State ' s lack of attendance at these crucial farming event ? at a time when our farmer be go through some of the most extraordinary pressure in a generation , we have now learn that this Government have choose to slash the farming budget . to make matter bad , Ministers have spend the past week try to sell cut of more than £ 100 million a year in real term as a historic deal for farmer . if the Secretary of State have secure such a historic deal for his Department , where do DEFRA rank compare with other in term of cut in the spending review ? first , I remind the hon . Gentleman that I attend the Royal Cornwall Show with he just a few day ago . I be surprised he have forget that , because we sit together in the same tent and enjoy a very pleasant lunch . I do not know what be wrong with his memory , but anyway . the funding for elm scheme pay to farmer will increase from £ 800 million in the last year of the Tory Government to £ 2 billion by 2028 - 29 — that be a 150 % increase under Labour compare with what the Tories be pay . no wonder the hon . Gentleman be so angry . it be a shame that the Secretary of State do not do any medium at the Royal Cornwall Show and pull out of speak event . I can tell he that DEFRA be rank the third big loser of any Government Department in the spending review , and that be his failure . in reality , we be now look at cut to the farming budget of about 20 % in real term over the next three year , at a time when farmer need more support and certainty than ever . it get bad : we now hear that the Government have issue further statutory guidance on farming rule for water , with more to follow , effectively aim to ban — Order . I have to try to get the other shadow Minister in . you go too low down the Order Paper — this be topical question , not a full statement . I hope you be about to finish . this be effectively go to ban the spraying of organic manure in the come month . be the Secretary of State categorically rule that out ? I be happy to send the shadow Minister the list of media coverage I get from the Royal Cornwall Show . he do not seem to be any well at google than remember who he sit down with at lunch . I be delighted that the spending review be welcome by the environmental NGOs and the National Farmers Union as it fund activity that include the one he refer to . it seem that everyone be delighted with the review apart from he . resident of Thornton - Cleveleys in my constituency be be warn not to eat food grow in their own garden because a local site be be investigate after test find high concentration around it of a ban substance call perfluorooctanoic acid , which have prove to be carcinogenic , and there have be discharge into the protect River Wyre . this be affect hundred of resident in the area , and there be fear of contamination to water and locally grow food . what step will the Minister take to address this problem under the current regulation to ensure that constituent like mine be protect ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue . the Government be , of course , strongly commit to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment . I be aware that the Environment Agency be investigate this matter , so I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss it in detail . I call the shadow Minister . the National Audit Office report say that the Government really need to step up their border check . as the Government have admit in answer to I , 72 , 872 kg of illegal meat import be seize between January and April this year , close to the 92 , 000 kg seize in the whole of 2024 . with foot and mouth disease and african swine fever on our doorstep in Europe , I shudder to think how much potentially infected meat be slip in undetected . this be a catastrophe wait to happen . will the Government act urgently to strengthen our biosecurity and our border check before it be too late ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we have act with speed and haste to make sure that we be protect . we have ban personal import , and we be absolutely committed to give the Weybridge facility the support that it require — we have give it what it ask for . the question be why we be in that position in the first place when we come into Government . what be his Government do for all those year ? these be not new problem . United Auctions in my constituency have recently become the UK ' s first employee - own livestock auctioneer . will the Secretary of State commit to do more to encourage employee ownership model as a great option for rural business that want to thrive , attract new talent and remain rooted in the community that they serve ? will he also congratulate the new owner ? I be delighted to hear that news . I assure my hon . friend that we be look very closely at how we can use the co - operative model to boost the rural economy , particularly in respect of farming profitability , as we know that access to new private market opportunity be not always straightforward . the Minister previously state that the extend producer responsibility be not retrospective . however , the industry understand that it be now DEFRA ' s position that it be a retrospective tax . will the Minister confirm what industry engagement be undertake to advise producer of the change to a retrospective tax ? I be happy to write to the hon . Lady in great detail and at great length , but it be not something I can explain in 20 second . follow last month ' s Supreme Court ruling about wild camping on Dartmoor , will the Secretary of State confirm whether he believe that responsible wild camping should be permit in the other national park ? we be delighted by the Supreme Court judgment on dartmoor wild camping and we understand the call to expand it . however , we have no plan to extend it , as it do need to be balance with landowner right and habitat protection . the gamekeeper employ by the military shoot on Salisbury plain be an essential resource in preserve that rare and special habitat , but DEFRA have give the right to award licence to the shoot to Natural England , a quango that be ideologically oppose to shoot . will the Minister take responsibility and ensure that the shoot on Salisbury plain get their licence this year ? I be very sorry to hear the hon . Gentleman criticise Natural England in that way . it be a very responsible agency that do very good work on behalf of we all . we make the decision not to issue a general licence for gamebird release in special protection area such as Salisbury plain . we think it be really important that we help protect our internationally important bird population from avian influenza , and I be sure he would share that goal . UK flour miller , include ADM in my constituency , be already contribute to our food security . however , there be fear in the industry that trade deal could curtail that progress . will the Minister outline the step he be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure that the welcome trade deal strike by the Government do not undermine our food security ? the UK flour sector be really important . I very much welcome the work that that sector do for we . it be right to raise the point about trade deal . we be determined to make sure that we do nothing to undermine a very successful sector that help keep food security at high level in this country . it be report today that the Treasury may be plan to siphon money off from the water restoration fund for " unrelated purpose " . what assurance can the Secretary of State provide that money in the restoration fund will be use to clean up our waterway , not to cover rise Government debt interest ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . I do not recognise that report . the money from the restoration fund be be use now to fund project up and down the country . as I have mention , the future money from fine will be ringfence for environmental project up and down the country as well . compensation have be give to Severn Trent customer in Norton and Packmoor who have suffer discolour water supply , and to another resident who have sewage flood their garden . while I welcome recent investment to upgrade the pipe in Smallthorne , Burslem and Tunstall , will the Secretary of State please outline how he will hold water boss to account , so that resident finally see real improvement ? my hon . friend be of course an outstanding champion for his constituent in Stoke - on - Trent North . during 2024 - 25 , more than 800 compliance inspection be conduct at Severn Trent Water site . the Environment Agency will be attend more minor pollution incident and will continue to attend all serious pollution incident . we have , of course , give Ofwat the power to ban the payment of bonus to water boss who damage the environment and let customer down . I congratulate my hon . friend on support those tough new measure . Solicitor General the Solicitor General be ask — violence against Women and girl : prosecution what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case involve violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case involve violence against woman and girl . this Government be elect with a landmark mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . despite the challenge we inherit , we have recently secure a record funding settlement for the Crown Prosecution Service , which will allow it to hire more prosecutor and play its part in rebuild a criminal justice system that truly deliver for victim . I be glad to hear , after I raise this matter for the first time in November , of the launch of the west midland pilot of the victim ' right to review scheme , which will give victim of rape and serious sexual violence an opportunity to challenge a prosecutor ' s decision to drop their case . however , too many victim have already wait a huge amount of time to get any opportunity for justice , include those in my constituency of Monmouthshire . after be report to the police , adult rape case take an average of two year to complete in court . what work be the Government do to reduce those waiting time ? my hon . friend raise a very important issue . I know from meet rape charity , and indeed from meet CPS unit right across the country , how long wait for justice harm victim and sometimes mean that they drop out of case altogether . the Government and the CPS be take action to reduce delay , include by increase the number of Crown court sit day and the number of counsel available to prosecute rape and serious sexual assault case . I declare that I be an ambassador for Leeds woman ' s aid . I welcome , as do my constituent in Leeds North West , the propose change to the victim ' right to review scheme that be be pilot , which will give victim a great say in their case . will the Solicitor General outline the specific way in which those change will help victim and what the impact will be ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . the victim ' right to review scheme be an important pillar of the criminal justice system . through the CPS pilot scheme to offer victim a review prior to a decision to offer no evidence , victim will be empower to challenge more decision . that be likely to lead to well decision making , more victim stay in the system and , ultimately , more offender be put behind bar . early this week , I be unsuccessful in try to amend the Government ' s propose new spike law to ensure that reckless spiking be an offence . will the Solicitor General meet I to discuss the challenge of prosecute violent crime towards woman and girl if the Government be unpersuade to ensure that reckless spiking become illegal ? I be more than happy to meet the hon . member to discuss that issue . he will be pleased to know — indeed , he may well already know — that we introduce a new offence for spike and that we have include new spiking training for up to 10 , 000 staff in the night - time economy to ensure they have the skill to support victim and prevent such incident . will the Solicitor General outline what support there be for the family of domestic abuse victim — specifically child who have witness and be traumatise by that abuse and who need support , which would also enable their parent to feel more confident in continue their legal case ? the hon . member raise a very important issue . it be incredibly important that victim of abuse of any kind , and especially child , be support through the criminal justice system , both by police and then by the CPS . hostile State activity : prosecution what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of offender charge with hostile state activity . this government will always make the country ' s national security our no . 1 priority . that be why we take any attempt activity conduct by hostile state on british soil extremely seriously . the CPS ' s special counter - terrorism division work closely with police at the investigation stage to build very strong case from the outset . that approach deliver result : last year , 98 % of those try for terrorism - relate offence in this country be convict . many of my constituent be concerned about state - back terror , give the recent arrest in and around my constituency . will the Solicitor General update the House on the implementation of Jonathan Hall ' s report on state - back terrorism and how that may help we to improve conviction rate ? my hon . friend rightly mention Jonathan Hall KC ' s recommendation . as the Home Secretary announce , we be commit to take forward the suite of recommendation make in Jonathan Hall ' s review to tackle state threat , include the creation of a new proscription - like power . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I recently meet Hong Kong pro - democracy activist Chloe Cheung , who report be follow by man here in London after a large bounty be place on her head by the chinese Government . despite provide copious evidence to the police , she receive no follow - up at all . the lawyer of detain activist Jimmy Lai be also be harass , while the plan for the new chinese super - embassy , if build , could seriously increase China ' s capacity for surveillance , intimidation and transnational repression against Hong Kong activist here in London . will the Solicitor General please commit to look into this issue urgently so that we can all have confidence in the UK ' s ability to prosecute hostile state actor and protect those who live on UK soil ? the hon . member raise an important issue , and I will make sure that Home Office colleague have hear the concern he raise . minister have raise concern of that nature with the authority , include in Hong Kong and Beijing , and I want to be very clear : we will not tolerate any attempt by foreign government to harass or harm their critic on british soil . immigration : government Legal Advice whether the Attorney General have provide the Government with legal advice on immigration matter . the hon . member will be aware that the Law officer ' convention prevent I from disclose whether advice have be seek from the Law officer , whether advice have be give and , indeed , the content of any advice . the Attorney General have recently be force to apologise for his comment about those who believe the european convention on human right be impede effort to tackle illegal migration . do that not call into question the credibility of any advice give by the Attorney General and whether we can take the Government ' s plan to stop the boat seriously ? as I say , the Law Officers ' convention prevent I from disclose whether Lord Hermer advise on this issue or indeed any other . it do not , however , prevent I from say that I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman want to talk about illegal migration , give the abject mess the Conservatives leave the country in . counter - terrorism power could optimise the effectiveness of the Border Security Command . could the Solicitor General advise on how the Crown Prosecution Service be be empower to tackle illegal migration and people smuggle ? my hon . friend raise an important point and refer to a critical part of the Government ' s plan to secure our border . the CPS have recently receive new funding to step up surveillance and prosecution , which will mean that those who commit horrible crime in relation to people smuggle feel the full force of the law . I call the shadow Solicitor General . nine of our european ally have write to Strasbourg , request a reset of the european convention on human right to allow national Parliaments to remove foreign offender who threaten public safety . Britain ' s signature be miss . in fact , we be not even ask to join . unfortunately , that say everything about the way in which this government be view by other . can the Solicitor General confirm whether the Government will now back that initiative , or will they leave it to other to defend the primacy of democratic lawmaking ? as the Lord Chancellor make very clear yesterday , the UK remain committed to the ECHR , but it be absolutely right that as the challenge face modern democracy evolve , so must international law and , indeed , domestic interpretation of that law . this government be take a serious , consider and responsible approach , and we have a history of engage constructively with the Court . accord to press report , Qari Abdul Rauf , a convict ringleader of the rochdale child rape gang , be still live in the town . that be nearly 10 year after a judge order his deportation . repeat appeal under article 8 of the echr — the right to family life — have block his removal . what action be the Government take to stop criminal abuse article 8 to defeat Parliament ' s clear intention to deport they ? if you come to this country , you play by our rule . that be why since we come into office , we have be take action to ensure that foreign offender can be deport at the early opportunity . in the period since we have be in office , we have deport nearly 30 , 000 foreign criminal and fail asylum seeker . that be the high rate of return for more than half a decade . it be the right thing to do , it will save prison capacity , and it will save taxpayer ' money . non - violent Drug - relate offence : prosecution if she will take step to reduce the number of prosecution bring for non - violent drug - relate offence . in its recent report , the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs highlight the Government ' s safe street mission as a key vehicle to address the connection between drug use and criminality . the Government ' s flagship Crime and Policing Bill will expand police power to conduct more drug test on more suspect upon arrest , which will help to direct more drug user into treatment and away from illegal drug use . as drug - relate death be now at record level , particularly because of the increase in synthetic opioid , I believe that we need to look again at supervise drug - consumption facility , which be an evidence - base intervention that could save life and public spending . both the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs and the Health and Social Care Committee support the idea . will the Solicitor General consider facilitate a legal mechanism here , as in Scotland under the Lord Advocate , to enable local health and police authority that wish to pilot such facility to establish their efficacy to do so ? it be absolutely right that we ensure that those who fall into drug addiction be able to access adequate support , service and route to rehabilitation . as my right hon . friend the Minister for Policing say to the Scottish Affairs Committee recently , the Government do not have plan to amend the law to permit the introduction of drug - consumption facility . we be clear , however , that drug death be avoidable , and we be commit to support more people into recovery so that they can live healthy and long live . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . give that the independent sentencing review suggest that more use could be make of community sentence in such case , but court seem reluctant to use they as an alternative to custody , what can the Law officer do to ensure that sentencer have confidence in community sentence , which have well outcome than imprisonment in reduce reoffende ? as my hon . friend know , David Gauke have conduct a sentencing review that cover a wide range of these issue . my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need to have public confidence in community sentencing — that be important . People Smugglers : prosecution what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of people smuggler . the Government be take the serious , robust and tough action need to secure our border . that be why we be give the police counter - terror power to deal with people - smuggle gang . we have back that with a funding boost to the CPS to enhance its capacity to prosecute case involve these appalling cross - border smuggling network . People across Lichfield , Burntwood and the village want the Government to get a grip on people - smuggle in the channel after the previous Government ' s dereliction of duty . too many life be at risk ; too many people be make that dangerous crossing . although it be great news that police be work hard , and have arrest dozen of people smuggler and seize almost half a million pound of criminal cash , it be clear that we need to go far and fast . what step be the Solicitor General take to ensure that people smuggler face the hefty jail term that they deserve ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : it be vital that police and prosecutor work together to bring people smuggler to justice , and that our criminal justice system send a clear message that people smuggling will be meet with hefty jail term . I be pleased to tell he that an offender who play a lead role in an organise crime group that smuggle nearly 4 , 000 migrant be sentence to 25 year ' imprisonment in May . do the Solicitor General understand the frustration , annoyance and anger of many people in the United Kingdom about the fact that we be pay the french authority many million of pound to do what appear — at the moment anyway — to be very little to smash the gang that we keep be tell will be smash ? international partnership be an incredibly important part of our plan to smash the gang . our recent work with the french Government in particular be bear a great deal of fruit . in fact , we hope that the French will soon be able to address the situation that they currently can not : when would - be migrant be in shallow water . European Convention on Human Rights : UK obligation what step she be take to ensure the UK meet its legal obligation under the european convention on human right . this Government be fully commit to meet our legal obligation . the rule of law be the bedrock of our parliamentary democracy . not only do it underpin our legal and judicial system ; it provide the basis for the global success of our legal service sector . I thank the Solicitor General for her answer . in the light of the Supreme Court ' s judgment define sex in the Equality Act 2010 as strictly biological , and public comment from the Equality and Human Rights Commission suggest trans individual may not be entitle to privacy protection under article 8 , what step be the Solicitor General and her office take to ensure that domestic law remain fully align with the UK ' s obligation under the european convention on human right , particularly article 3 , 8 and 14 ? do the Government intend to clarify or consolidate domestic equality law and the ECHR obligation , to avoid grow legal divergence ? as to the step that the Law officer be take , I be afraid that I have to refer to the Law officer ’ convention . with regard to the hon . member ' s wide point and the Supreme Court ' s rule in the for Women Scotland case , the Government have be very clear that we will continue to support single - sex space , while also affirm the important right that trans people have and continue to have under the Equality Act . I want to ask about our compliance with article 14 with regard to the fast - track justice system . my constituent , a woman with schizophrenia , have be convict of not pay her tv licence during mental health difficulty spark by her mum ' s mental illness . will the Solicitor General meet I to discuss the single justice procedure and the way it be use in case such as that ? I will indeed meet my hon . friend to discuss that issue . I believe that the Ministry of Justice have recently consult on the single justice procedure , and I be more than happy to discuss it with he . business of the House I call the act shadow Leader of the House . will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 23 June include : Monday 23 June — General debate on Pride Month . Tuesday 24 June — estimate day ( 2nd allotted day ) . there will be debate on estimate relate to the Department for Education ; the Department of Health and Social Care ; and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . Wednesday 25 June — estimate day ( 3rd allotted day ) . there will be debate on estimate relate to the Ministry of Justice , in so far as it relate to criminal justice ; the Ministry of Defence , in so far as it relate to the remit of the national armament director ; and the Department for Transport . at 7 pm the House will be ask to agree all outstanding estimate . Thursday 26 June — proceeding on the Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill , follow by a general debate on Armed Forces Day . Friday 27 June — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 30 June will include : Monday 30 June — Second reading of the Deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) Bill . Tuesday 1 July — Second reading of the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . Wednesday 2 July — consideration of Lords message to the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , follow by motion to approve the draft Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Continuation ) Order 2025 . Thursday 3 July — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 4 July — private member ' Bills . I would like to start by congratulate the right hon . Lady . this be the third time I have have the pleasure of respond to she at business question , and they have prove to be remarkably fruitful encounter . at our first encounter , I ask she to press the Chancellor to u - turn on winter fuel payment . the Leader of the House be clearly very influential , because the u - turn on that shameful attack on pensioner come just a few week later . at our second encounter , I ask the right hon . Lady to get the Government to u - turn on a national inquiry for the victim of the rape gang , and this week the Prime Minister finally do the right thing and deliver a u - turn on that as well . the Prime Minister may be get dizzy from all his u - turning , but I congratulate the right hon . Lady on listen to the opposition , use her influence and secure those U - turn . let I turn to one of the most important task of any Government : get people into and keep they in work . on the conservative Benches , we know that economic growth come from the success of business and risk - take entrepreneur . the Labour party have never understand that , and we be now see it have disastrous consequence for our country . unemployment reach record low under the Conservative Government . labour government be always incredibly successful at drive unemployment higher . this Government seem determined to be the good ever at put more and more people out of work . last week , we see the devastating impact of the Chancellor ' s reckless national insurance tax raid , which business warn she would cost job . they be right : the UK unemployment rate be now at its high level since the pandemic . Job vacancy have collapse . last month , there be 109 , 000 few employee on payroll . these be the direct result of a Chancellor and a Government who do not understand business . it be about to get a whole lot bad . business be clear that the Employment Rights Bill will cost more job . the UK ' s lead business group have collectively tell the Government that the Bill will damage economic growth and job . the Government be give people right in job that they simply will not have . the truth be that this Government be beholden to their union paymaster and can not listen to business . they be a Government who have take a time machine back to the employment nightmare of the 1970 , when union baron give Labour Ministers their marching order . while the Government and the union try to refight the battle of the 1970 , the world of work be change at a rapid rate because of artificial intelligence . AI bring many benefit , but it be also a clear and present risk to the stability of our labour market and the livelihood of million of people in this country . despite their love of regulation in all other aspect of our life , this Labour Government have yet again delay their Artificial Intelligence ( Regulation ) Bill , so AI be develop unchecked and change job in way that will have a long - term impact . while business and worker grapple with the new reality of a 21st - century AI economy , the Government be determined to burden they with taxis and regulation from the last century , so will the Leader of the House use her considerable and prove influence to deliver a u - turn on the Employment Rights Bill before it be too late ? if not , will she grant we a debate in Government time on the impact of their union - inspire tax and regulation policy on business ? will she bring her party back to the 21st century and grant we a debate in Government time on how we address the role of AI in the future of work ? the story of this Labour Government and their economic policy be now clear . if it move , they tax it ; if it do not move , they still tax it . if they can find a way , they send unemployment higher . if business warn they that thing will get bad , they do not listen . if the union want something , they give it to they . this be a Government fight the battle of the 1970 and behave like they be still student politician . it be a Government make the people of this country poor as each day pass . I know the whole House will be follow the unfold event in the middle east carefully and with a great deal of concern . I assure the House that the Government be work with our partner to urge de - escalation and diplomacy , as well as continue to engage very closely on the situation in Gaza , for aid to get in and for a sustainable ceasefire . this week be the ninth anniversary of the murder of my and many other member ' dear friend Jo Cox . this week we remember everything that Jo stand for — her value , her passion , and her commitment to build bridge and resolve conflict , and to international development . I send my thought , and I be sure the thought of the whole House , to Brendan , Cuillin , Lejla , Jean and Gordon , and of course to Jo ' s dear young sister , my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , who I know Jo would have be incredibly proud of , especially in recent week . it be a pleasure to be join once again by the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , who I have a great deal of respect for and enjoy work with . I be sure that she and I be happy to take whatever plaudit we can for the exchange that we have at business question , because I know that the Prime Minister and many other follow they incredibly closely . her contribution be certainly an improvement on the normal exchange that I have with the shadow Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , who be not in his place today . I accept the hon . Lady ' s invitation to say a little bit about child exploitation , but I do not accept her characterisation of there be any kind of u - turn . I thank she for her tone , which be really important in these debate , because in the midst of such unforgiveable injustice , it be essential that we come together across the House to lower the temperature , and to put victim and their experience at the centre . as a government , we have always say that we would leave no stone unturned to uncover the truth , get justice for victim and lock up the perpetrator , which be why the Prime Minister commission Baroness Casey ' s review in the first place . we never rule out return to the issue of a national inquiry ; we have always be guide by what would be the most effective way of get the action , truth , justice and accountability in the most effective way possible . some of those measure , include implement the recommendation in the Jay inquiry around mandatory reporting and the introduction of new aggravate offence for groom offender , be include in the Crime and Policing Bill that we vote on last night . I be surprised to see Conservative member vote against the Bill , which strengthen those measure , so perhaps they can reflect on that next time they criticise the Government . the hon . Lady raise job creation and the economy — I happy to debate that subject with she . she do not mention the three unprecedented trade deal that we have secure . the Conservatives be once the party of the trade deal and free trade , but they seem to have set themselves against the trade deal that be already secure job and investment . since we come into government , economic activity have reach a record high ; we have create half a million new job , move people into employment ; and real wage have grow more in the 10 month since last July than they do in the 10 year of the Conservative Government , so we be happy to stand by our record on job creation and the economy . the hon . Lady talk about the Employment Rights Bill , which be absolutely not something that this Government will be u - turn on . we be incredibly proud of give the big boost in a generation to worker in this country , and it be about time too . we be give they right on sick pay , abolish exploitative zero - hour contract for the first time , as call for by many member for a long time , and introduce fair pay agreement and many other thing . in a Bill that we be incredibly proud to be deliver for this country . finally , in this week of all week , Parliament have find itself at the centre of the national debate — a place where we should always find ourselves . there be big issue at stake , globally and here at home , which Members of Parliament from all party have be grapple with and take decision on to the good of their ability , whether about the conflict in the middle east , the publication of the Casey audit , or vote on abortion and assist dying , among many other issue . I put on record my thank to all those across the House who have approach those issue with the respectful , non - partisan tone that they deserve . we be all elect to this place to make hard decision , to represent our constituent with integrity and to work in their good interest . I know that every single Member of this House take that job incredibly seriously . however , we also have a duty not to slide into personalised , over - politicise , clickbait attack on each other which , if we be not careful , undermine we all and democracy as a whole , and threaten the safety of individual . I be disappointed to see that member of the shadow Cabinet be do just that this week , and I hope they will reflect and withdraw some of the dangerous attack that they launch , particularly as we remember Jo Cox . we have a responsibility to take the heat out of the political debate — [ interruption . ] personalise political attack line — exactly . we have a responsibility to approach these difficult challenge with the thought , respect and humility that they deserve , and I think the whole House will want to do its job without fear or favour . when I visit my Ukrainian Saturday school in Welwyn Garden City , many of the parent impress on I the importance of have the option for ukrainian child to study a GCSE in the ukrainian language . as it stand , somebody can study Russian , but not ukrainian , and I have promise to take up the cause . I have write to all the national exam board , with some mixed response , but I be determined to stay on the case . do the Leader of the House agree that that would be a fantastic subject for further debate in this place ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that with I . he will know that GCSE subject decision be take by the independent exam board , but he may be interested to know that the Education Secretary have recently write to the exam board ask they to consider introduce a GCSE in Ukrainian . I hope my hon . friend will continue that campaign , and I be sure that it will get wide support from across the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the outbreak of bluetongue and the subsequent announcement by the Welsh Government impose a hard border for livestock between England and Wales leave the livelihood of many border farmer at risk . their land often straddle the border , and farmer rely on move livestock daily between both country . accord to the Farmers Union of Wales , by introduce mandatory check the Welsh Government be create a " wholly impractical " policy . I be reliably inform by my hon . friend the Member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) that a large majority of ewe be on one side of the border , while the tup be on the other , which will make breeding rather tricky . will the Leader of the House ask Ministers to bring forward a statement about any work they be do to create a more join - up approach between England and Wales to protect farmer in these border county ? while she be do so , can we have a statement on whether the Government will create a fund vaccination programme to protect livestock and livelihood in the whole of the UK ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the serious issue of cross - border breeding and the difficulty that she outline . I know this be a very worrying time for farmer . I be sure she will be aware that disease control be a devolved matter , but the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be work very closely with the devolved government on this particular matter . she be right to say that the restricted zone have be put in place , which be cause challenge for breeding , as she outline . I understand that minister be in constant contact with their counterpart on this issue , and it be raise yesterday in Prime Minister ' s question . I know it be an issue of importance to the House , and I will ensure that the House be constantly update . the UN ocean conference in Leeds last week mark a turning point , with country come together to accelerate action to protect and restore our sea , include the UK ' s welcome commitment to end destructive bottom trawl in some of our most biodiverse water . will my right hon . friend join I in celebrate that progress and support those international effort by provide parliamentary time to ratify the high seas treaty ? may I take this opportunity to thank my hon . friend for all her leadership on this issue , and for bring representative of both Houses together last week to watch the very moving documentary with David Attenborough ? that have have a profound impact on many member across this House . she be absolutely right that we have to take action to ratify the treaty , and we be commit to bring forward legislation before the end of the year — I hope it will be soon . I be really pleased that the British Government have take step to ban bottom trawling in our protect marine water . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the business for next week , include the estimate day debate . I hope she will use her good office to ensure that there be no Government statement on that day and that you , Mr Speaker , will have a very high bar for urgent question . let we see . we have three debate on each day , and I hope that we will be able to get a good debate on each of those subject . on Thursday 3 July , there will be a debate on a motion on financial redress for 1950 woman impact by the Department for Work and Pensions ' maladministration of the state pension , follow by a debate on mobile phone theft , a subject that be raise frequently in this Chamber . on Thursday 10 July , there will be a debate on child ' s health , and we be await acceptance of the other debate . I understand that the sponsor of the debate on Down syndrome that be due to take place this afternoon in Westminster Hall have withdraw that application because no Minister be available to answer it , so there will be no debate . I hope that you , Mr Speaker , will use your good office to make sure that that debate take place , for the benefit of the sponsor and , indeed , the subject . next week in Westminster Hall , there will be a debate on Tuesday on the right to maintain contact in care setting . on Thursday , there will be a debate on the role of the RAF photographic reconnaissance unit during the second world war , follow by a debate on the BBC World Service . on Thursday 3 July , there will be a debate on the future of music education , follow by a debate on safeguard child with allergy at school . the following week , on 8 July , there will be a debate on alcohol and cancer — which be a very topical subject during that week — and on Thursday , there will be a debate on state support for victim of terrorism , follow by a debate on London ' s contribution to the national economy . not only be Saturday the long day , but it be also International Yoga Day , and we be give right hon . and hon . member the opportunity to practise yoga this afternoon . those member who be not in the Chamber or Westminster Hall can come along to Committee Room 10 . I guarantee to provide a place for every single Member who come along , so that we can practise yoga , which be India ' s gift to the world and be helpful when it come to have a healthy and a long life . can I book Jim Shannon in ? [ laughter . ] the hon . Member mention the debate this afternoon . it be disappointing that there be no Minister available , which be why it be well to withdraw it on the Member ' s behalf . first , may I say namaste to the hon . Gentleman ? I be a regular attender at Iyengar yoga in Manchester . be I not wear high heel , I might show he my tree pose , but I will save that for another day , or perhaps at the session later on . I thank the hon . Gentleman for announce the forthcoming business — it sound like there will be a number of debate on topic that regularly get raise with I during these session . I be really sorry , Mr Speaker , about the unavailability of Ministers for the debate that be due to take place in Westminster Hall today . as I understand it , give that the Backbench Business debate in this Chamber be a health debate , that be occupy one Minister , and another Minister be involve in a Public Bill Committee , which have limit the availability of Ministers . however , we will ensure that that debate be rearrange . I offer my full apology to the House for the Ministers ' unavailability . with the light night come fear for some as antisocial behaviour uptick , cause real misery in some community . I recently join the Killingworth neighbourhood police team on a walkabout to hear directly from they how they be work with North Tyneside council to tackle this issue and support local people . can we have a debate on how this Government will give Northumbria police and other agency the power they need to support our community ? antisocial behaviour be a blight on all of our community . we be take big step to strengthen police power in that area and introduce respect order , and the Crime and Policing Bill , which have its Third reading last night , contain many measure that I hope will support my hon . friend ' s police . rise — order . just to help the House , I aim to run this session for around an hour , so I be sure we can help each other by rush through . let we have a good example of that from Neil o ' Brien . thank you , Mr Speaker . although they do not mention it before the election , Labour be committed to abolish every district and borough council in Leicestershire . it have also invite proposal to expand the city ' s boundary , and the Mayor of Leicester have put forward such a proposal . this be universally not want in Oadby , Wigston , Great Glen and the surround village — in fact , thousand of people have sign a petition against it — so can we please at least have a debate in Government time on that proposal ? will the Leader of the House encourage the local Government Minister not to allow this expansion of the city ? it be not just the high council tax ; people want to keep their local identity . if the Government be go to go ahead with the proposal , will they at least allow people to vote in a referendum ? I know this issue be of great concern to many member across the House and people have strongly hold view on it . the hon . Gentleman be right that we set out a number of proposal in the White Paper . those issue be be consider , and measure will be bring forward in an english devolution Bill shortly . member will have ample time to consider they , but the proposal should be come from local leader — that be what devolution be about — not impose by Government . just this week , we have see further medium report of dangerous and unregulated cosmetic procedure end in tragedy . in July 2021 , the beauty and wellbee all - party parliamentary group , which I chair , present a report to the Government recommend an evidence - base policy framework to prevent such incident occur . will the Leader of the House encourage colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to do what the previous Government fail to do , and act now to take control of these dangerous practice ? I thank my hon . friend for her campaigning on this issue . when she take up campaign , she normally get result . I be sure that she will get result on this issue , too , because we need to regulate these practice . we need to make sure that people be properly train and accountable and that people can hold they to account when thing go wrong . we be respond shortly to the consultation , and I will ensure the House be update . Elusive Brewing , a fantastic independent brewery in my constituency of Wokingham , brew Oregon Trail , which win good IPA at the Champion Beer of Britain award . can we have a debate in Government time on the step that minister be take to support the people of Wokingham in enjoy great local product , such as those from Elusive Brewing and Siren Craft Brew , in their local pub ? perhaps the Leader of the House , and you , Mr Speaker , would like to join I for a pint from one of those excellent brewery . I be always open to an invitation to have a pint , although I be perhaps less open to invitation to do a run . british beer , and our brewing industry , be one of the great pride of this country , and the Government have be take step to support our great brewing industry and cask ale and the like . I look forward to perhaps sample the beer from the hon . member ' s constituency soon . I do not know whether he have already do so , but the bar here in Parliament offer the opportunity for local brewer like his to share their ware with member . first , can I welcome the huge investment that the Government be put into social and affordable housing ? as I have already raise in this House , resident in my constituency , particularly in the town of Hexham and Haltwhistle , have see a rise in the number of derelict building , such as the former workhouse on Corbridge Road and cottage near Hexham train station . despite landlord purchase those property and substantial demand for affordable home in the area , those building be often leave to deteriorate . can we have a further debate in Government time to discuss solution for inactive landlord actively deface beautiful town such as Hexham and Haltwhistle due to lack of development ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue again . he do it week in , week out , and it be obviously an important issue for his constituency . the Government be look at how we can strengthen community right to buy in these circumstance , because we want to make sure that town centre and village , such as those in his constituency , can flourish into the future . a constituent of mine , Yvonne , have lead a brilliant community blister pack recycling initiative in Tattenhall . through her effort , the project have pick up pace and be now expand to other village include Tarporley , Farndon and Malpas . hopefully it will get to Chester in the near future . blister pack make of plastic and aluminium contain valuable material but be not routinely recycle . the project highlight what local action can achieve and where national system fall short . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on improve recycling for hard - to - recycle item ? I join the hon . Lady in thank Yvonne and all the volunteer for what sound like a really good campaign . I do not realise that blister pack be so recyclable , and it be so important that people do so . in bring that to the House today , she have share that with everybody else , and I be sure the campaign will go from strength to strength . in the UK , 2 . 9 million disabled woman be of reproductive age . tragically , disabled woman be 44 % more likely to have a stillbirth . as a disabled mother myself , I be devastate by the barrier that I face at every point during my pregnancy . it be a pleasure to host Paralympians , disabled woman and expert by experience at a summit here in Parliament to discuss what good , inclusive maternity care look like . can the Leader of the House advise on further opportunity to embed safe maternity care for disabled woman in the Government ' s woman ' s health strategy as part of the 10 - year plan ? I have hear my hon . friend speak very powerfully about these issue before , and we be always shock at the story that people such as she and other describe . the Government will be bring forward a new maternity service strategy very shortly , and I will ensure that she have the opportunity to question Ministers . on 28 June 1986 , my constituent develop symptom of I , and he have live with those same symptom for 40 year , and the NHS remain unable to offer any meaningful intervention . those who have live with I for decade — some bed - bind and in darkness — feel that no one in authority notice or care . in 2022 , the then Health Secretary start work on a delivery plan for I , which finally offer hope . this Government promise the final delivery plan at the end of March and then put it off until the end of June , which be only seven parliamentary day away . can the Leader of the House reassure the 1 . 3 million people live with I and me - relate symptom that they will not have to wait long than the end of June for the Government commitment to address this huge intergenerational injustice ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this issue . I know that those who suffer with I and their family feel incredibly strongly that not enough have be do over many year , and the Government will shortly be bring forward our 10 - year NHS plan . I will ensure that she and other get an update on that , which will contain information about ME care . I declare an interest as a former miner and a current member of the National Union of Mineworkers . yesterday be the 41st anniversary of the Orgreave event . page 73 of the Labour party ' s 2024 manifesto pledge an inquiry or investigation into what actually happen at Orgreave 41 year ago . I praise the Home Secretary for the consultation that she have have with the NUM , the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign , lawyer and the Bishop of Sheffield , among many other , but can we please have a debate in Government time to try to push on with that pledge ? People be get old , and some be suffer from bad health . can we please have a debate to discuss this very important issue ? I know that my hon . friend have long campaign on what happen at Orgreave , and that campaigner such as he and other want to see action , accountability and justice . every community should have confidence in their police , but what happen at Orgreave still cast a very long shadow over mining area like his and in Yorkshire . as he say , the Home Secretary be commit to resolve this issue and have meet campaigner many time . we be work on a response as a priority , and I will ensure that the House be update . shocking new figure have come to light , show that white working - class child be fall behind in all but 21 school across England . in place like Romford , family who have work for generation be watch their child slip through the crack . I understand that the Education Secretary have launch an inquiry into why community like mine be face this problem , but surely equality should mean that every child count , not just those who fit fashionable narrative . will the Leader of the House provide time to debate why this group continue to be neglect and , in some instance , marginalise ? the hon . Gentleman will know that this Government be absolutely committed to reduce educational inequality wherever they exist , which be why we have a mission to deliver opportunity for all . I do not know whether that mean he now support the education plan that we have set out — for example , reduce vat on private school in order to get more state school qualified teacher into the system . I know that the performance of white working - class pupil in our school have be an issue for many year — in fact , it be an issue when I sit on the Education Committee when the hon . Gentleman ' s party be in government . I do not remember it ever be a priority for the previous Government , but we will reduce educational inequality wherever they exist . early this week , the Department for Transport increase the cost of use the Dartford crossing . that will impact Gravesham resident and business , which do not get the resident discount scheme . with the announcement this week of the funding for the low Thames crossing , will the Leader of the House please schedule a debate on river crossing between Kent and Essex and their impact on Gravesham ? I know that this be an issue of great concern to Members with constituency close to the Dartford crossing . my hon . friend will be aware that , unfortunately , the last time the charge be increase be in 2014 . since then , demand have grow massively , which be why we have to introduce these small increase in the charge . I know that it be a concern for such member , and I be sure that , be they to apply for a debate , they would get a popular response . electronic travel authorisation be first introduce in Northern Ireland just six month ago . despite have put down several write parliamentary question , I can not seem to establish from the Home Office how many people have not have a valid ETA in the past six month . may we have a debate in Government time to establish the veracity of the number of ETAs that have be issue and of those who have not have they in the past six month ? I be really sorry that the hon . Member have not have adequate response from parliamentary question , and I will ensure that they be forthcoming . I do not have the figure to hand , but I see that Northern Ireland question be come up soon , as be other opportunity . in the meantime , I will ensure that he get a ministerial response . yesterday I visit the Refugee Council , which be proudly headquarter in my constituency . from support those flee for their life to find employment for they , it be help people rebuild and become part of the community in Stratford and Bow . the constituency be also home to other excellent organisation that support refugee , such as the Refugee and Migrant Forum of Essex and London , Praxis and the Magpie Project — to name but a few . both Tower Hamlets and Newham be sanctuary borough , and Newham be home to London ' s large ukrainian population . would the Leader of the House join I in celebrate Refugee Week and recognise the valuable contribution make by these group and other across the UK in support refugee to integrate into community and play their part in national life in Britain , which they can now proudly call home ? I join my hon . friend in acknowledge Refugee Week . this country will always play our part alongside other to help those flee persecution . we have a long - stand history of welcome refugee , particularly those from Ukraine , as she say , and Hong Kong in recent year . when they be here , they make a valuable contribution to our community . Daniel be a very happy and full - of - life 13 - year - old boy in Fylde until , just over two year ago , he be diagnose with a serious brain tumour . with multiple surgery , a 70 - week chemo treatment and , very sadly , a stroke while go through that treatment , Daniel have now be in hospital for over two year . he can not move without assistance and require assistance to breathe overnight . the local authority and the NHS have be work together with his family to help design how he can move home and live with his parent , but there be no funding available . he be fall through the crack between different policy for the funding to pay for those change , which the family simply can not afford . may we therefore have a debate in Government time on how we can ensure that no family fall through the crack in such a way and that child be not leave inevitably in hospital , and on how to get Dan home ? I be really sorry to hear about Daniel ' s situation , and my heart go out to he and his family at this difficult time . I know from my experience of brain tumour in my own family that it be a very difficult disease from which many people do not recover . we need to go much far in the research and treatment of brain tumour , because too many people die too quickly of they . I be really sorry to hear that he be fall through the crack between different policy , and I will raise that with minister . the hon . Member may want to know that we have the national cancer plan come later this year , and we have relaunche the child and young people cancer taskforce to ensure that service be join up in the way he describe . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn the appalling recent epidemic of antisocial behaviour in Spennymoor , which have see shop attack , playground vandalise and public park damage ? do she agree with I that the measure we have be vote on this week , to introduce respect order and put 13 , 000 police officer back on our street , be desperately need , because we must retake control of our street and our town centre ? I be sorry to hear about the antisocial behaviour in Spennymoor , which sound really disruptive and unacceptable . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the Crime and Policing Bill will do more to tackle this issue than anything that we as a country have do in a very long time , such as : introduce respect order , get more neighbourhood police on the street , and give the police the power to seize and crush some of the off - road vehicle that be often involve in such antisocial behaviour . there be newspaper report this morning that the Attorney General have provide the Government with legal advice against engage in the war between Israel and Iran . I be sure the Leader of the House recall that the last time a Labour Government be contemplate join the Americans in a middle east war , the Attorney General ' s advice be key . will the Government publish the advice so that the House can be clear on the legal basis for any future british involvement ? I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman be aware , but government have always have the policy that we do not comment on what advice the Attorney General have provide , or indeed whether he have provide any advice at all . that ensure minister can get the advice they need to carry out Government business and make decision without fear or favour . just 40 % of mp have be call to speak in this Chamber on the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill ahead of Third Reading tomorrow . many colleague on both side of the House have table amendment to the Bill , but have not have the opportunity to speak to they . the Bill be hugely significant and many vulnerable people be look to we to give they the safeguard they need . will the Government give more time to the Bill to ensure that the public have full confidence in the process ? I know there be very strong feeling about the Bill on both side of the House . I be sure we can all agree that Parliament have show itself at its good when discuss these issue in a thoughtful and consider way . as my hon . friend will be aware , it be not a Government Bill . it be a matter of conscience . as a private member ' s Bill , it be not give Government time because it be not a Government Bill . it will follow the usual process for a private Member ' s Bill . it be for the House to decide how long the Bill be debate . the House , through such thing as closure motion , can decide to give the Bill long to debate it , if it so wish . the 36th anniversary of the Hillsborough disaster pass this year without the long - await Hillsborough Bill . the lawyer work on the Bill have say that if it do not include the statutory duty of candour or legal parity for bereaved family , then it be not a Hillsborough law . can the Leader of the House call on a Justice Minister to provide an update for the family , the bereaved and the survivor on whether those two aspect will be include in the Bill ? first of all , the Government remain absolutely committed to fulfil our commitment to the Hillsborough family on bring forward and enact a Hillsborough law , which , as my hon . Friend say , include a duty of candour . that be because the Hillsborough family have spend decade fight for justice and we do not want to see that continue . it be important that the Bill reflect the range of view , concern and experience , and meet the expectation of family . that be why we be work at pace with the family on the Bill , and we will introduce it when it be ready . it be important to celebrate award give to hon . colleague , so will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate both the Deputy Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) on win the award in their respective category as Britain ' s sexy politician on that well - know website illicitencounter . com ? do she recommend that they have dinner together ? I be sure that the Deputy Prime Minister have a very full diary ; she will be wash her hair and the like , so it might not be possible for she to have dinner with the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . the battle of Bamber Bridge in my constituency , 82 year ago , be a powerful moment in history when local people stand in solidarity with black american soldier against segregation . I be hugely grateful to councillor , like the wonderful Chris Lomax , who have work so hard to keep the memory of this special moment in history alive . I know that the community will have a great time celebrate the anniversary this weekend with a proper american barbecue . will the Leader of the House join I in wish the Bamber Bridge community a wonderful celebration at the Ye Olde Hob Inn this weekend , and will she consider hold a debate on the long history of our british value of bravery and inclusion ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in wish the Bamber Bridge community all the good with their barbecue this weekend , and their celebration of the stand that people take against racism all those year ago . last week , I be heartbroken to hear of the loss of Norma Burton , one half of the much - love social medium duo Jess and Norma . Norma capture the heart of million with her warmth and humour , and her amazing bond with her granddaughter , Jess . can we have a debate on the vital role that grandparent play in educate the next generation , and will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Norma , who be a remarkable and inspire woman ? I absolutely join the hon . gentleman in pay a warm tribute to Norma Burton , and I be sure the whole House will want to do so , too . her partnership with her granddaughter Jess be great , as I be sure many would agree . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to point to the importance of intergenerational relationship , and of always respect our elder and do exactly what they say . my constituent Owen Sutton be 26 and live with a rare brain tumour . he have undergo four major surgery , have proton beam therapy , and suffer frequent seizure , but despite that , he have raise thousand of pound , as well as awareness , as an incredible young ambassador for the Brain Tumour Charity . Owen and the charity be call for a review of research funding , so could we have a statement from the Government on plan to well fund this vital , lifesave research ? I join my hon . friend in thank Owen Sutton for all his fundraising . as I say in response to the hon . member for Fylde ( Mr Snowden ) , brain tumour really be the bad kind of diagnosis for anybody , as I know well from the devastating news in my family last year . the debate we have recently be well subscribe , and this Government be commit to ensure that we have the very good research and treatment available for brain tumour . I be sure that if we have another such debate , it would also be very well subscribe . foetal alcohol spectrum disorder be a complicated and difficult condition that currently have no agree medical treatment pathway . child with FASD be disproportionately represent in the care system . tragically , since the covid lockdown , the number of case be on the rise across the country , but particularly in the south - west . will the Leader of the House commit to a debate on this important issue in Government time ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that the early year — from conception to the age of two ; what be know as the first 1 , 001 day — be absolutely vital to child development , and development later in life . a disproportionate number of those experience the consequence of exposure to alcohol during pregnancy end up in the care system , and be affect in many other way as well . that be why the Government be commit to preventive and community healthcare , especially in the early year , and to join all these thing up through our mission - lead Government . the Queensway Gateway roadwork be cause chaos for my constituent . East Sussex county council and Southern Water have not answer my question of why the moving of a major water main be not plan for before these work begin . the need to do so be delay those roadwork indefinitely . as the Leader of the House know , I raise this matter with she six month ago . with work still drag on and cause chaos , will she join I in call on Conservative - run East Sussex county council and Southern Water to get a grip and explain who be responsible for this chaos ? I be shocked that six month after my hon . friend first raise this issue with I , the road to nowhere be still go nowhere fast . she be absolutely right to call out the inaction of the Conservative - run East Sussex county council and Southern Water , both of which I know she challenge day in , day out . I hope she get some answer . the BBC report that overnight , President Trump approve a plan to attack Iran . there be potentially a very small window of opportunity before he decide whether to escalate this war , so I be concern yesterday when , in Prime Minister ' s question , the Deputy Prime Minister do not give I a direct response when I ask she to confirm whether the Government would explicitly seek Parliament ' s consent for any military support for Israel in this war . can we have assurance from the Leader of the House that there will be a debate and a free vote in those circumstance ? give the Attorney General ' s report concern about the legality of Britain ' s potential involvement in the crisis , it be critical that we get that opportunity , and I would be grateful for a clear yes / no answer on this issue . the most important thing that the british Government be call for in this situation be de - escalation and diplomacy ; that be our first priority . any other conversation do not meet those end . as for the principle of the issue , we have be very clear about our position : where there be sustained military action in which our troop could be involve , that would of course be a matter for the House to consider . New Hope Care , a private company own by Patrick Cheza , be operate in my constituency of Stockport . it fail its staff and exploit vulnerable worker , some of whom be migrant worker who fear speak out about their mistreatment and neglect , worry that it could impact their visa status . regardless of their immigration status , people should be compensate for their work . my office have more than 20 case on this issue . I be tell that the company have receive payment on its contract , include from Stockport council and customer , yet it be withhold vital wage from its staff . many of they have not be pay for four or five month and be experience significant financial hardship . it be my understanding that the owner be base abroad . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on enforce compliance from private social care provider , such as New Hope Care , that fail to pay wage ? this be a shocking case , and the Government be commit to tackle these issue . in November , we take the first step to ban rogue employer from sponsor overseas worker . the immigration White Paper set out the next step , include end overseas recruitment for adult social care . I will ensure that my hon . friend get a ministerial response on this case . oswestry livestock market in my constituency serve not only North Shropshire , but Mid Wales , and its operation be under threat because of the hard border introduce as a result of the bluetongue protection zone . I echo the call of my hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) for a statement on how we can effectively manage this concern situation . may I also ask the Leader of the House to consider whether 40 minute for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs question be sufficient , give that a fifth of the country live in rural area , and there be very little time under the current allocation for those of we who represent those area to question Ministers ? I thank the hon . member for mention that matter , which be raise early . I be sorry to hear of the impact on the Oswestry livestock market . as I say early , minister from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be work closely with devolve Ministers to try to resolve this issue . obviously , people want to hear an update via a statement from Ministers , so I will look into that . she also mention the length of DEFRA question , a matter that be raise with I and other regularly . we look at how many people apply to ask question , especially on Thursday morning , so if colleague want that question time to be long , they need to get more people to take part in the lottery to ask question . mountain rescue team be respond to an increase number of incident , include fatality . emergency responder think that the massive increase in people come to the mountain without sufficient preparation be due to people see beauty spot promote on Instagram and TikTok . the ability of local agency to do anything about this be limited , because people be come from outside the area . I would be very grateful if the Leader of the House could advise I on whether this issue should be bring to the attention of a Science , Innovation and Technology Minister , and if so , could she assist I in raise it with they ? this matter have be raise with I before , and it be concern . we want people to enjoy the countryside and , specifically , the great countryside in her constituency . it be great that people on social medium be advertise it , but if they be not also tell people what step they need to take to keep themselves safe on our mountain , then that be a challenge . I will certainly raise that point with Ministers for my hon . friend . the Government ' s english devolution plan be intend to simplify local accountability . the reform could be critical to improve democratic accountability for our integrate care board and unlock the delivery of much - need healthcare facility , such as a gp surgery in Wixams in my constituency . will the Leader of the House make time for a Minister to update the House on why integrate care board cover Hertfordshire , Bedfordshire , Milton Keynes , Cambridgeshire and Peterborough be be merge , despite there be no plan at all for a mayor to cover the area and hold that body to account ? the hon . member raise a good point . we have be look at the efficiency and effectiveness of icb ; that be why some of those step have be take . he be right that we be strongly in favour of devolution , and of make sure that organisation such as icb be accountable to their community . I will look into the specific in his area and get back to he . for many people in Wirral West , their church be a hub where they can practise their faith and put their value into action . that be evident to I at a recent meeting with representative of St Luke ' s church in Hoylake , West Kirby Methodist church , Wirral ' s Methodist church , West Kirby United Reformed church and Saints Catherine and Martina roman catholic church . can the Leader of the House set out when we might have a debate to celebrate the work of church across our community ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the valuable work that church do as the centre of our community , and particularly his in Wirral West . I know that there be sometimes a challenge in apply for debate about church matter and the Church of England . this have be raise with I , we be look into it . it be report yesterday that two third of south Gloucestershire school will be in the red next year , which will have a massive impact on our child ' s learn . as I have say to Ministers , under the current school funding formula , south Gloucestershire school be the second lowest fund in the country . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State to make a statement to the House on how she will fix this funding unfairness ? we be boost school funding significantly , whether that be fund for special educational need , or fund to support teacher in do their work . I will ensure that the hon . Lady and the rest of the House be keep up to date on how that money be distribute . I recently meet the British Transport police , whose scottish headquarters be in my constituency , to discuss their text service for confidential reporting of non - emergency incident on the rail network . early this year , I attend a Transport Salaried Staffs ' Association event , at which the union be launch its " keep transport worker safe " report , which highlight the abuse and harassment face by staff across our transport system . give the vital role that transport worker play in keep passenger and infrastructure safe , will the Leader of the House give we a debate in Government time on recognise their contribution , and on how good to protect they ? I thank my hon . friend for allow we to put on record our thank for all the work that our transport police do , day in , day out . he be right that it be completely unacceptable for they to face abuse and be unable to do their job properly , and I think that would make a very good topic for a debate . the town of Camelford in my constituency have be leave in limbo for decade over the future of the propose Camelford bypass . I raise this with the Minister responsible for road , the hon . member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , in a meeting in March , and a follow - up letter be send in April , but I be yet to receive a response . will the Leader of the House please urge Transport Ministers to finally give Camelford ' s resident an answer on whether the bypass will ever get build ? I be sorry to hear that the hon . Member have not have a response to his correspondence and question . I do not have detail about the Camelford bypass in my folder , but I will certainly take that up with Ministers and ensure that he get a response . yesterday I have the pleasure of host people from York Foodbank , one of many food bank in my constituency . it tell I that last year it hand out emergency food parcel to 8 , 700 people in my constituency . that number have double since covid , and number continue to rise , yet the food supply do not . the assessment be that as a result of the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill , about 400 , 000 adult will be push into further poverty , so will the Leader of the House ensure that food bank have the support that they need to support our community ? we be all concerned about the rise in food poverty in recent year . it be a blight on our country and community , and we want to put it right . this Government be commit to eradicate child poverty . that be why we have the child poverty taskforce , and we be look at a range of measure . just a couple of week ago , we introduce an extension of free school meal to all those in receipt of universal credit . that will transform the food poverty issue for young people across our country that my hon . friend describe . last month , I meet more than 20 business owner in the hospitality trade in Leicester city centre . they tell I that , due to the rise in national insurance and hike in business cost , they be on their knee . that be compound by antisocial behaviour , rise crime and a lack of parking . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the future of our city centre ? as the MP for a rival city centre in Manchester , I be well aware of concern of the type raise by the hon . gentleman . we do support our hospitality sector , and we be take a number of step to support growth in our economy and to support employment . we have to take tough decision in the Budget to ensure that our NHS and other public service have the resource they need to ensure that we have a healthy workforce to work in that sector , and that have mean a national insurance rise for business . I have raise concern about the rise in the number of house in multiple occupation in Portsmouth before . this week , the council confirm that it would take 12 year to house all family currently on the four - bedroom home waiting list without add a single new family , because we be not build enough home . meanwhile , family home be be convert into HMOs to fill the gap — home in Balfour road , Chichester road , Cardiff road and three on Laburnum — yet resident can not get up - to - date information because the public HMO list have not be update for 15 month due to technical difficulty . can the Leader of the House advise I how I can get the council to publish that list , and will she make time for a debate on the national rise of HMOs ? I know that the issue of HMOs cause a lot of concern for community and for Members across the House . my hon . friend be absolutely right : local authority must establish and maintain a register of licensed hmo in their area . in the Renters ' right Bill we be strengthen right to ensure that HMOs be hold to account by community and local authority . rise — can we increase the tempo to ensure that there be few disappointed colleague ? I wish to raise the urgent situation face Christians in Nigeria , where militant recently carry out a co - ordinate attack , kill some 200 people and burn accommodation over three hour . that follow a surge of violence in a predominantly catholic area , with over 100 kill and 5 , 000 displace . will the Leader of the House ask the Foreign Office to update the House on its assessment of this violence , and ensure that the Foreign Secretary act with nigerian authority and international partner to protect vulnerable community , provide humanitarian aid and hold perpetrator to account ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise a very serious issue . the UK Government continue to monitor event in Nigeria closely . we be work with Nigeria ' s security force to tackle violence against civilian community , especially where it be religiously base . the town of Barrhead in my constituency be full of extraordinary young people , which be why my Scottish Parliament colleague Paul O ' Kane and I have reinstate the Barrhead Young Citizen of the Year award . however , after year of Tory and SNP neglect , Barrhead be also blight by youth - lead antisocial behaviour . will the Leader of the House make time to debate that issue , so that we can put pressure on the SNP Government in Edinburgh to give the hard - press police in Barrhead the resource they need to tackle this problem , and so that those young people be not leave behind and Barrhead be not leave pay the price ? I be sorry to hear about the antisocial behaviour in my hon . friend ' s constituency . he be absolutely right to say that , as a result of decision this Government have take , the Scottish Government have one of the most generous budget settlement they have ever have . they now have the power to tackle these issue , and they really have no excuse not to do so . as the Leader of the House know , I have consistently raise in this place the support that our ceramics industry need . this week , however , I come bear good news from Stoke - on - Trent . our iconic Moorcroft Pottery , adore the world over , have be save from liquidation follow its acquisition by Will Moorcroft , the founder ' s grandson . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Will , and do she agree that support for the sector must feature in the upcoming industrial strategy ? my hon . friend be a real advocate and champion for ceramic in his constituency and beyond . I be delighted to hear that , after this issue have be raise with I a number of time , Moorcroft Pottery have be save by Will Moorcroft . I thank he for do that . my hon . friend will not have to wait very long at all for the industrial strategy . Sam be a trans man who have be out for eight year . he recently tell I about his long - term avoidance of public bathroom , and due to his lowly place on the gender recognition certificate waiting list , Sam could not marry his fianc é e before her father pass away last year . we commit in the labour manifesto last year to remove indignity for tran people by modernise the law . when do the Government intend to legislate to that effect ? I be sorry to hear of that story . everyone deserve dignity and respect in our society . we commit in our manifesto to reform the Gender Recognition Act 2004 . our immediate priority for the trans community be a trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice and strengthen the protection from hate crime , which we discuss in the House yesterday . it be Care Home Open Week , and in the last few day I have have the pleasure of visit Muscliff nursing home and Highview care home in Southbourne . will the Leader of the House join I in commend our carer across Bournemouth East and Britain and the vibrant community that they help to shape ? will she consider set aside Government time for a debate on social care ? I join my hon . friend in thank our carer for all the work they do . this Government have take a number of step to support our carer , with the big increase in carer ' s allowance in generation and many other measure . I be sure that we will debate social care many time in this House in the come month . early this month , Johnstone Burgh football club in my constituency bring home the scottish junior cup , its first such win since 1968 . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Johnstone Burgh football club , its manager Murdo MacKinnon , the player and everyone in our community who support the club on their historic victory ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Johnstone Burgh football club on its historic win — the first in 57 year . last Saturday , I be at the first ever national care leaver ' championship cup competition , which be hold at Molineux , the home of Wolverhampton Wanderers football club in my constituency of Wolverhampton West . care - experience young people from all over the country come to play football . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate those young people , as well as EFL in the Community , City of Wolverhampton council , the Wolves Foundation and Spectra , a multidisciplinary social impact company in my constituency , all of which sponsor the event ? do she agree that recognise and celebrate the potential of our young people in that way , many of whom get up at 4 o ' clock in the morning to come to the event , can empower they to thrive for themselves and our community ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate all those involve in that important event : EFL in the Community , the local authority , the Wolves Foundation and Spectra . we be proud as a Government to have bring forward the Football Governance Bill , which complete its passage in Committee just this week . it will ensure that football be on a sustainable footing and can therefore undertake more activity like the one he mention . the evidence of the detrimental impact of smartphone on child ' s mental health and wellbeing be overwhelming . will the Leader of the House therefore join I in praise the more than 30 Basingstoke primary school , include St Mark ' s Church of England primary school and its headteacher Charles Applegate , for the smartphone - free Basingstoke initiative ? they be take action to ban smartphone from come into school and to help parent understand the impact of smartphone on their child . will she allow a debate in Government time on smartphone - free childhood ? as the mother of a number of teenager , I recognise the importance of school be smartphone - free . I know that many be take step to achieve that and they have the power to do so . I be therefore pleased to hear that school in Basingstoke have prohibit the use of smartphone and be educate parent on their danger . can we secure some time to discuss the emerge risk to the bioethanol sector , which face job loss across the north ? I know that my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) have be lobby hard for Government support on that issue . I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue face the bioethanol industry . we be work closely with the industry to find a way forward and I will ensure that the House be update . my constituent Lynne recently write to I about a new car purchase . she pay £ 190 for a full year ' s road tax , but then discover that the tax expiry date be set for the first of the month , not the 29th — the date she buy and tax the vehicle . when she query that with the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency , she be advise that the tax be apply by calendar month , mean that she effectively pay a full month of tax for just three day . as Lynne say to I , 12 month ' tax should mean 12 valid month . this outdated system be clearly unfair . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on the need for a fair vehicle excise duty system ? I know that road tax raise lot of issue with our constituent . I be not aware of the issue that my hon . friend raise , but I will ensure that she get a ministerial response . Falmouth be a thriving town in my constituency , but it be struggle with a deployable neighbourhood police team that be at only 44 % of the minimum recommend capacity . Tregony have just have its police office shut — the only one in a large rural area . this Government have invest heavily in our neighbourhood policing guarantee , but I be concerned that that funding be not flow through our police and crime commissioner to the place that need it . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the progress of the improvement in neighbourhood police ? I be sorry to hear of the crime and antisocial behaviour in Falmouth and across my hon . friend ' s constituency . she be absolutely right that we be committed to our neighbourhood policing guarantee , which will put 13 , 000 more police officer into our neighbourhood policing area . I be sorry to hear that the funding be not be direct in the way she would want , and I will ensure that the Minister get back to she about it . Meur ra , Madam Deputy Speaker . yesterday be National Thank a teacher Day — an opportunity to thank teacher across the country , include in my Camborne , Redruth and Hayle constituency . will the Leader of the House join I in thank teacher across the country for all the work they do to give young people the good possible start in life ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in thank all teacher for the amazing work they do . I hope that I will still be say the same after my daughter ' s year 10 parent ' evening later today . last week , I mark Loneliness Awareness Week by hold a reception for community group look at different way to tackle loneliness . we hear from multiple group , range from Oaklands health centre to the WizeKap team . tackle loneliness in the UK be vital in improve the mental health of many and foster strong community . will the Leader of the House set out what the Government be do to address loneliness in society ? as we mark nine year since the murder of Jo Cox , I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue of loneliness , which be an issue dear to her heart . she do much work to raise awareness of the issue . my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw the link between loneliness and health and wellbeing , and that be why the Government will continue to support those who want to tackle loneliness . constituent , particularly those from Cutthorpe , Old Brampton and Ashover , have raise concern about the behaviour of driver pass horse rider on our road . the guidance be to pass at least 2 metre wide and at speed of no more than 10 mph . what more can we do to spread this message and ensure that our road be safe for all user ? the Government continue to work with the British Horse Society to help deal with those issue . my hon . friend will be aware that the highway code be update a few year ago to include the hierarchy of road user , but we will continue to work with the British Horse Society and other to tackle these issue . I attend the New Park Village end - of - season football award — a fantastic celebration of local talent with hundred of girl , boy and young people . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Joe Jackson , who for over 28 year have lead community football and truly transform life , and everyone who support the NPV family ? will she make time for a debate on how the recent spending review will support community grassroots sport initiative like this one ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Joe Jackson and all those involve in NPV football . we be commit to grassroots football and grassroots sport , and I be sure that the House will be update soon on some of those issue . the very good thing about this job be the people we meet . last Saturday , I meet Lisa Fleming and her team at the opening of the House of Hope in Edinburgh South West . it be Scotland ' s first breast cancer wellbeing and support centre , and it be absolutely amazing . it be a sanctuary for people face a diagnosis but also for their family , which be important . it be a place of community , healing and , most importantly , hope . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Lisa and the team on deliver on the scale of their ambition and wish they well for the future , and will she thank people right across the UK who be support people face a diagnosis ? I join my hon . friend in thank Lisa Fleming and all those involve in the House of Hope for support those with breast cancer at some of the most difficult time in their life , provide support , hope and all that they need . the programme launch for this year ' s Bloody Scotland — the country ' s lead crime writing festival — take place at the Golden Lion hotel in Stirling . it be the 13th annual festival and this year include event program by Scotland ' s king of crime writing , Sir Ian Rankin , and take place on the weekend of 12 to 14 September . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the success of the UK ' s incredibly talented crime writer , many of whom will be in Stirling in September , and will she join I at one of the many excellent event ? ticket be on sale now ! it be really no mystery why the UK lead in the crime write genre . leader like Sir Ian Rankin build on the legacy of many other , include Arthur Conan Doyle and Agatha Christie . I will certainly join my hon . friend in celebrate all our crime writer . almost 300 resident in West Lothian , which cover a large part of my constituency , and many other around the country will be affect by the shortage of galantamine capsule , which be use to treat Alzheimer ' s . as a result of the shortage , local pharmacy be scramble for provision , and some patient rely on twice - daily short shelf - life medication , which be more difficult to administer . give the unique vulnerability of those with Alzheimer ' s , will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the security of our medicine supply chain ? we be work hard with industry and health leader to resolve issue with the supply of those capsule . I will ensure that my hon . friend get a full update . young people from the Citadel youth centre in my constituency have be shortlist for an Into Film award for their animation " can we talk about Mental Health ? " . the group will be here in London next week for the award ceremony , and I will be pleased to welcome they to Parliament . will the Leader of the House join I in wish the group good luck , and will she schedule a ministerial statement on support young people from across the UK to get involve in the creative industry ? I join my hon . friend in wish the group good luck with the award ceremony and their visit to Parliament next week . we want to see many more young people enjoy the creative industry . that be why our curriculum review be happen at the moment : it be vital that young people get involve . across my constituency , grassroots sport club do an incredible job of promote physical and mental wellbeing . Eccles RFC do wonderful work to deliver parity for its girl ' team , ensure that rugby be an open and inclusive sport , and Boothstown FC have do a fantastic to enable boy and girl to benefit from football . will the Leader of the House join I in commend Eccles RFC and Boothstown FC for their effort to promote woman ' s and girl ' sport , and will she consider a debate in Government time on the centrality of physical activity , both inside and outside school , to young people ' s wellbee ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate those at Eccles RFC and Boothstown FC on all the great work that they do . grassroots sport be often raise at business question , so I be sure that it would make a popular topic for debate . we be committed to the " this Girl can " campaign . I be sure that girl ' grassroot sport would also be a popular topic for debate . I want to thank a teacher call Chris — [ Laughter . ] no , not this one ! will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Chris Leeding of Newhall primary academy in Harlow on achieve a Pearson teacher of the year silver award for his clear dedication and passion for support child in Harlow , both in classroom teaching and in encourage they to write to their local MP ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Chris from Harlow — not he , but the teacher he mention . as we have hear , teacher do amazing work for all our young people , and we send our gratitude to they daily . on Monday evening , two reckless individual have their vehicle seize in Aylesbury town centre due to antisocial driving . I be really grateful to Thames Valley police , who act quickly against they , and I be pleased that the Government ' s Crime and Policing Bill will give the police strong power in this area , remove the requirement to issue a warning before a vehicle can be seize . will the Leader of the House join I in thank the Thames Valley police officer for their dedicated work and join I in welcome this Bill ? absolutely . I have see at first hand what a big difference it can make in reduce crime and antisocial behaviour when these power be use to seize and crush vehicle that be be use for antisocial behaviour in our community . I thank my hon . friend for vote for that important Bill last night . we look forward to get it on the statute book . as have already be say , this week the Minister for Future of Roads announce an increase in the Dart charge , which be the toll that all road user pay to use the Dartford crossing . resident in Dartford be extremely disappointed and frustrate by this rise , and I aim to take the matter up with the Minister . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on the use of toll for infrastructure and how we can keep the cost down for user of infrastructure like the Dartford crossing ? as I say previously , I be sorry ; I know that the small increase we have have to make to the Dart charge be of concern to people . as my hon . friend will be aware , the last time the charge be increase be 2014 , but he be right that the issue of toll bridge , toll tunnel and toll for infrastructure be of great importance to this House and come up many time . I be sure that if he be to apply for a debate , he would secure one . two of my constituent be recognise in his Majesty the King ' s birthday honour list at the weekend . Anne MacDougall , for service to volunteer in the community , and James McLaren of Golden Friendships , for service to people with disability and old people , receive British Empire Medals . do the Leader of the House agree that they both be very well deserve , give their dedication to improve life in West Dunbartonshire , and showcase their remarkable service ? will she join I in congratulate Anne and Jim ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Anne MacDougall and James McLaren on their honour . I be sure the whole House would agree that our honours system be an opportunity for we to thank and reward all those in our community who do the work that Anne , Jim and many other across the country do . in Colchester , we have be celebrate the 20th anniversary of the discovery by local archaeologist of Britain ' s only know roman chariot race track : the Colchester roman circus . Dame Mary Beard , no less , recently visit the site with I and declare it to be absolutely amazing . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the anniversary of the discovery of this nationally significant site and commend local resident who want to see more make of it in the light of future development , and will she find time for a debate on schedule ancient monument ? I join my hon . friend in recognise this important roman site in her constituency , which chariot racing take place on — how fantastic . I know that she and her constituent be proud of their rich heritage , and I be keen to see what the future hold for they . I be thrilled to see the Coo Shed in Parliament this week , get special recognition for its farm - to - fork family - run coffee shop in my constituency , but poor local infrastructure have be a drain on its success . road closure on the A77 , which for year have be neglect by the Scottish Government , have cost it dearly . will the Leader of the House agree to time in the House to debate the importance of well - fund infrastructure to help business , particularly in rural area , thrive ? road closure can be a blight on local business , local community and footfall on the high street , and they be obviously affect my hon . friend ' s constituent . I be sorry to hear that the Scottish Government seem to have mismanage these roadwork , and I hope they be listen today and get on with the job . art and culture be boom in north Wales , and I be delighted to say that next month , we will see both the formal reopening of Theatr Clwyd in Mold and also Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod in my constituency of Clwyd East . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the contribution of both to our economy and our art sector , and will she make time for a debate in this House about how we can far grow opportunity for the art and culture sector ? art and culture play a huge part in all our community and can play a really important part in economic regeneration , as they be do in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I join she in celebrate the reopening of those facility and look forward to visit soon . although many of we be enjoy the hot , dry weather , it do increase the risk of wildfire . in the past month alone , firefighter have be call to 20 wildfire in the Peak district . all too often , these fire be start by the irresponsible use of disposable barbecue . locally , we be do everything we can to prevent this . I have write to all local supermarket ask they not to sell disposable barbecue . will the Leader of the House hold a debate in Government time on how we reduce the risk of wildfire in our national park ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that the irresponsible use of disposable barbecue can have devastating consequence like those he describe . local authority have exist power to apply control to restrict or ban the use of such barbecue in certain area , but I will ensure that he get an update on how we can take this far . the Rural Activities Garden Centre in my constituency be a vital resource for adult with learn difficulty , provide job , training , support and the ability to make lifelong friend . the service user and their family I meet last week be horrify that , despite this , the council be propose to close the service next Thursday . will the Leader of the House join I in send a message of support to the family affect , and make time for a debate in this House about the vital role that these service play for adult with learn difficulty ? my hon . friend be a great champion for his area , and I be incredibly sorry to hear that his conservative local authority have decide to close this valuable local garden centre , which do so much for his community . we have give local authority one of the big boost in local funding that they have have for some time , so they really have no excuse . across the UK , volunteer give their time , energy and care to support our community , and we could not do without they . one such champion be my constituent Doug Smith , who found Volunteers Count , a campaign ask organisation to record volunteer hour so that we can finally put a number and a value on the enormous contribution of volunteer . will the Leader of the House join I in support the Volunteers Count campaign , and make time for a debate on the value of volunteering to our country ? what a great initiative by Doug Smith to set up Volunteers Count ; I be sure we all recognise that it be a really good and important way of collect this datum and information . the subject of volunteering get raise with I every week , and I be sure that a debate , probably on the Floor of the House , to celebrate our volunteer would be very well attend . I declare an interest as a member of Unite . will my right hon . friend find an opportunity for the House to recognise the vital work of our elect trade union representative across the country ? in particular , follow his funeral last week in Glenrothes , will she join I in pay tribute to John Gillespie , chair of Unite Scotland — a tireless and hugely respected campaigner for social justice who will be deeply miss , not only in Fife but throughout our labour and trade union movement ? I pay tribute to John Gillespie , the former chairman of Unite Scotland . he sound like someone who do a great deal to fight for people ' s right and for social justice , and a great , trust leader for his union and the wide workforce . in Rossendale and Darwen we have real concern about rural crime and its impact on our farm and village community . we have excellent , hard - work rural crime team , but they cover vast area with limited resource . one team with a single vehicle between six officer cover three local authority area . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on the rural crime strategy , and the resource require to deliver it ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . our rural and wildlife crime strategy will be publish in due course , and I will make sure that he and other colleague have a chance to discuss it with Ministers . the Health Secretary have rightly describe Norfolk as " the Sahara of dental desert " — [ Official Report , 23 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 506 . ] I very much welcome the 700 , 000 extra dentistry appointment since Labour take office , as well as the money for supervised toothbrushing , but East Anglia be the only region of England without a dental school , and consequently it struggle to recruit and retain dentist . would the Leader of the House support a general debate on dental care so that we can discuss funding for dentistry school , and what more can be do to improve access to dentistry across the UK ? we still have far too many dental desert in this country , and I be sorry to hear of the situation in East Anglia . my hon . friend be right that the Government be commit to create more dental appointment , but it be also vital that we have dentistry school to make sure that we can train and retain the dentist of the future . thank to Government investment in Royal Shrewsbury hospital , we be double the size of our A & E and add 120 extra bed to our ward . while the construction site be take up space in the car park , my local trust have arrange a free park - and - ride bus for NHS staff . do the Leader of the House agree that my trust ' s good practice example could lead the way for other hospital to encourage modal shift by provide free bus pass to NHS staff , leave parking space for patient ? I be pleased to hear that Royal Shrewsbury hospital A & E be double in size and about the initiative that my hon . friend describe to provide a park - and - ride scheme . the issue of hospital parking , particularly for staff , be vex , and I be sure that we will continue to debate it . I call John Slinger to ask the final question . some 96 % of UK prisoner be man , most war be start by man and most war criminal be man . as we work for a well future here and abroad , where conflict and unilateral action be sadly gain the upper hand , do the Leader of the House agree that we must do more to bring the perspective of woman to the fore , as we do early this week ? do she far agree that while the majority of man be not the problem , some key problem be largely cause by man , so it be vital that we well educate boy and young people , and detoxify masculinity , so that over time we might reduce violence at home and abroad ? can time be find for a debate on this topic ? I thank my hon . friend for that important final question . I be strongly in favour of woman be far more involve in decision making ; when they be , those decision be often well one . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act and Measures : sentence Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Act 2025 Data ( Use and Access ) Act 2025 . UK Infrastructure : 10 - year strategy when this Government come to power , we be elect on a promise to deliver a decade of national renewal , and from day one , we have work to fulfil that promise . Less than a year into the job , we have already start to see the result : the fast grow economy in the G7 in the first quarter of the year , interest rate cut four time and real wage rise more in the first 10 month of our Government than they do in the first 10 year under the Conservatives . however , we be under no illusion about the challenge ahead . we will be go far and fast to turn the page on 14 year of chaos and mismanagement from the conservative party , and to deliver the decade of national renewal that we promise . that be the backdrop against which I present this strategy to the House today . I put on record my thank to everyone whose input have help to shape the document , include those involve in the review I lead when in opposition , which result in this strategy and the creation of the National Infrastructure and Service Transformation Authority , about which I will say more shortly . infrastructure be key to unlock growth across the country . our road , railway , airport and digital infrastructure connect people to business , public service and one another ; our energy , water and housing infrastructure create and support community ; and our school , hospital , prison and social infrastructure provide high - quality public service and help to keep we safe . but good infrastructure mean improve productivity and efficiency in our economy too : increase resilience to shock , strong public service , more job and ultimately high wage for work people . from the development of the railway to the 2012 olympic game , we have a proud history in Britain of innovate , develop and build high - quality infrastructure , but the reality be that we have now fall behind many of our international competitor . too many investor now question our intention and our capability . when we say we will build something , they will often ask if we will and whether we can . that be because for too long the Conservatives cut capital investment , promise major project one minute then abandon they the next , and leave the public estate to crumble for 14 long year , from the road we drive on to the school we send our child to . they waste money , time and effort , see a decline in productivity and wage , and there be stagnant growth and an increase belief that politic can not change thing for the well . however , with this new Labour Government , we will prove once again that change be possible . the spending review last week set out how our Government be invest in the renewal of Britain , allocate an additional £ 120 billion of capital investment over the course of this Parliament , with new road and rail project to connect our town and city region . that include £ 3 . 5 billion more for the trans - Pennine route upgrade to reduce journey time between Manchester and Leeds , benefit community along the train line . we be also invest in the next phase of the midland rail hub to strengthen connection between Birmingham and the wide midland to the south - west and Wales . in Wales , we be invest £ 445 million in new rail project in north and south Wales over 10 year to connect city , town and manufacturing hub , with two Labour Governments work together for the people of Wales . we will set out further detail on our plan for Northern Powerhouse Rail in the come week . this be not just about transport . we be deliver the big roll - out of nuclear power for half a century , with a £ 30 billion commitment to our nuclear - power future . we be provide £ 39 billion for the affordable home programme over the next decade , which be the big cash injection into social and affordable housing in 50 year . we be back british industry in its pioneering work in carbon capture , usage and storage , include with support for the Acorn project , with benefit feel right across Scotland . the task before we now be to ensure that this investment be spend effectively and efficiently — a real change in approach from the Conservatives ' time in government — and to plan for not only the next five year , but the long term . that be the drive force behind the 10 - year infrastructure strategy . crucially , it be our hope that this long - term approach will give investor and business the confidence to invest in skill and their workforce , hire more apprentice , create more job and improve wage rate in every part of the country . the strategy be by its nature thorough and detailed , but I will draw the attention of the House to five key element today . first , we will provide certainty and stability through increase capital investment . we be commit to funding at least £ 725 billion for infrastructure over the next decade , ensure that infrastructure spending continue to grow in line with inflation after the current spending review period . at the spending review , we commit detailed capital spending plan for each Department until 2029 - 30 . to provide further certainty and confidence in our plan , we be also confirm funding for the school rebuilding programme to 2035 and for the prison expansion programme to 2031 . this long - term certainty need to be translate into real job in every part of the country , so ahead of the summer recess we will publish a new online infrastructure pipeline . it will provide up - to - date information about what we will build and when , and where we will build it , give industry and investor the confidence they need to invest in highly skilled job in every part of the country . secondly , for the first time we be bring economic infrastructure such as transport , energy and waste together with housing and social infrastructure , include school , hospital and prison , into one overarch government strategy . in do so , we will expect stakeholder to think more strategically about the community they be create , not just the specific piece of infrastructure they be build . for example , as part of our review of the Green Book , we have decide to pilot place - base business case , which will ensure that there be proper co - ordination between Departments when bid for funding from the Treasury . I know that will be a huge relief for community across the country , which have rely too often on poor planning on infrastructure and community benefit . that be the difference it make to have Labour mp who show up and listen and a Labour Government who get it . thirdly , we be take step to address the soar maintenance backlog in our public estate , which be estimate at more than £ 49 billion . I be today announce a new maintenance fund to provide at least £ 9 billion per year over the next decade to improve our public service and save money for the taxpayer . that include at least £ 6 billion per year to maintain and repair our hospital , so that our loved one can get the good possible treatment when they need it ; £ 600 million per year for our court and prison , so that justice can be serve ; and almost £ 3 billion for our school and college per year by 2035 , so that every young person get the good start in life . fourthly , we will leverage the private capital need to deliver this strategy . that mean match capital to individual project and use Government debt and equity to invest alongside the private sector . we will also work with industry to explore the target use of new public - private partnership where they can be show to deliver value for money for the taxpayer . any new model will learn lesson from the past to secure value for money into the future . lastly , we have establish the National Infrastructure and Service Transformation Authority . base in the Treasury , NISTA bring oversight of infrastructure strategy and delivery together , and integrate assurance , design and delivery assessment into Treasury spending decision . it will ensure that the strategy be implement effectively across the whole country , include through formal review of progress every two year , align with the spending review cycle . it will also work across Government to provide expertise and support to delivery partner . by design , this 10 - year infrastructure strategy be a technical policy document , and we will continue to work with business , investor , worker and trade union , and local leader to drive up ambition and improve delivery . however , the strategy be much more than that . alongside our modern industrial strategy , it will provide certainty and confidence in Britain as an investment destination , and will establish the framework need to deliver the step change in infrastructure investment announce by the Chancellor in last week ' s spending review . do properly , it will result in tangible improvement to the fabric of our country : our local road and high street renew so that community be even well place to live ; our public transport more available and more reliable , make it easy for people to get around and access opportunity ; our school , hospital and GP surgery fit for the future , to deliver for generation to come ; and a country that will be strong and more resilient . community will see the difference as this Labour Government deliver on the promise of change and a decade of national renewal . on that basis , I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his statement , and for provide early sight of it . our ability to invest in public infrastructure be a positive for individual , community and the country as a whole , and it be right that the new Government set out their strategy . the last Government have to deal with a series of economic disruption , include the impact of covid , the unwinding of quantitative easing across all advanced economy , and the consequence of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . the global impact be disrupt supply chain , increase inflation and raise interest rate . notwithstanding those shock , under the last government , public sector expenditure on capital increase in real term , from £ 81 . 7 billion in 2019 - 20 to £ 117 . 8 billion in 2024 - 25 — an increase of 44 % . today , the Chief Secretary have confirm expenditure of £ 725 billion , but have provide very little detail . there be no project pipeline today ; will he commit to come back to this House when it be publish ? in 2024 , the last infrastructure pipeline analysis include an investment pipeline of 660 project over a 10 - year period , commence from 2024 - 25 . the Chief Secretary ' s last statement to the House be , in very large part , a restatement of the investment in local transportation project that have already be announce by the previous Conservative Government . will he confirm how many of the 660 project in the previous pipeline will be retain ? will he advise the House which major project be be abandon , and give some insight into his reasoning for do so ? translate a pipeline into reality require a labour force of sufficient size and with a range of skill — in construction , project management and engineering , for example . again , the 2024 analysis by the Construction Industry Training Board indicate that that project pipeline would create labour pressure in many of those skill area . since come to office , this Labour Government have increase national insurance and be propose new regulation on employment , both of which will disproportionately affect the construction sector . do the Chief Secretary have any concern about the impact of those change on the availability of labour ? will he advise the House what assessment he have make of skill pinch point and what step the Government be take to alleviate they ? fulfil these plan will require investment by taxpayer and private capital . will the Chief Secretary advise the House on whether there have be any significant change in the mix of private and public investment — within discrete sector or overall — compare with the last pipeline analysis in 2024 ? the Government create the National Wealth Fund , and say that it be their principal investor — a critical part of the Government ' s growth strategy for infrastructure . the Chief Secretary have give the National Wealth Fund £ 7 billion , but have make no mention of it today . why have there be no mention of the National Wealth Fund ? we be move through an era with a rapidly accelerate pace of change , in which the period from technological innovation to obsolescence can be vanishingly short . the risk that public investment in new technology solution will become redundant be increase . while be forward - look , the Government should also be careful to nurture both exist technology and new but proven one , so what be the Government ' s priority for technology choice in the energy sector , and what action will he take to protect taxpayer from technology redundancy risk ? the Pension Schemes Bill , introduce by this Government , include a reserve power for the Government to mandate the investment of pension scheme . have the Chief Secretary have any discussion about — or have the Treasury do any analysis of — the use of mandation power to provide financing to the capital investment he have announce today ? have the project announce today be assess accord to the revised Green Book rule ? if not , will they be reassess at some point on the revised basis , and what assurance can the Chief Secretary provide that these project will give value for money to taxpayer ? as this Government have state , and as we acknowledge , when pressure on public expenditure increase , it be frequently capital expenditure that suffer . what action be the Chief Secretary willing to take if finance be tight to protect the budget for the project he have announce today ? investment in infrastructure benefit from a stable economic background , a clear set of priority , efficient delivery , and optimal return for taxpayer and investor . Madam Deputy Speaker , I miss the Chief Secretary in his old guise as Chairman of the Business Select Committee , when there be less of the rhetoric and the partisanship . these big decision need open communication and critical analysis if we be to improve value for money and get project deliver on time and on budget . in those endeavour , the Chief Secretary will always have our support . as Mr Fuller know , there be three of we on that Committee back in those good old day . I remember they very fondly , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for your support , and for that of the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury in his statement today . he have ask I a number of question , which I will take in turn . the first question be about detailed spending allocation between Departments . today , we be make a commitment to a minimum level of investment in infrastructure — £ 725 billion over 10 year , which be rise in line with inflation . the detailed spending plan per Department get allocate at the spending review . we have return to long - term , multi - year spending review , which be obviously different from the annual allocation do under the previous government ; capital be now allocate at a departmental level until 2029 - 30 . we will do the subsequent five - year detailed allocation in 2027 at the next spending review . the pipeline will be publish in a couple of week , in mid - July . the reason for a small delay between the strategy and the pipeline be that we want to integrate the datum from last week ' s spending review , and it take a little time to do so . we have work in partnership with industry , skill provider and other to develop the pipeline , which — as I say — will show on a map of the country which project we be procure , when , and where . that will give investor and business long - term confidence about the job that be go to be available , so that they can invest in their own workforce . the shadow Chief Secretary be right to highlight that skill be a constrain factor in the UK economy . we have the strategy and the money from the Chancellor ; we now need to work through the industrial strategy with the Department for Business and Trade and the Department for Transport and with private sector partner , to do all we can to create the great job in every part of the country that will enable we to build the infrastructure we have set out today . the shadow Chief Secretary ask I about the role of private capital . the strategy set out today contain a whole chapter about the role of private capital and the different mechanism that we use with private investor . there be a commitment to use private capital for economic infrastructure where there be a revenue stream , and some of the approve methodology for look at those option . further work will be do between now and the autumn Budget on some very target potential application of private capital for social infrastructure but , crucially , only where that provide value for money compare with it be fund by the state . the shadow Chief Secretary also ask I about the Green Book . the Green Book review be publish last week as part of the spending review , and it will be apply on a business case basis as project come through to the Treasury for spend approval . there be nothing in the strategy set out today that pre - approve a business case , so the new Green Book will be apply to business case as they come through in the normal way . at a couple of point , the shadow Chief Secretary ask I to explain the difference between this Government and the last Conservative Government . to put it simply , it be fail promise from the Conservatives , and promise deliver by the Labour Government . I call John Grady , a member of the Treasury Committee . I welcome today ' s announcement and in particular the focus on housing and transport , because Glasgow have a real housing crisis . in my constituency , the busy Bridgeton train station do not even have lift for disabled people . all taxpayer be concerned about value for money , particularly give the huge overspend and utter chaos of HS2 under the last government . in Scotland , there be the absolute scandal of the Arran ferry . will my right hon . friend reassure I and set out the step that the Government be take to ensure value for money in this infrastructure spending ? will he commit to share the learning with the Scottish Government , who desperately need help on that ? the key thing I will point my hon . friend to be the role of the National Infrastructure and Service Transformation Authority sit in the Treasury . the assessment on delivery , assurance , design and commercial capability for project will be part of the advice now come to I as Chief Secretary and to the Chancellor , and it will be align with spending decision on budget . that mean that if a project be not deliver effectively or be not yet ready to start , we will not release the money for that project , and we will stop fund project that be fail . that be a key difference from how decision be process previously , and we think it will lead to much well discipline in deliver big project . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . last week , the Liberal Democrats welcome the announcement of investment in public infrastructure and transport project , which we have long call for . we be glad that today the Government be set out a 10 - year infrastructure plan to realise those project , and the Liberal Democrats will be closely scrutinise it to ensure that it deliver for community across the UK . boost our infrastructure be vital , give the appalling mismanagement under the last Conservative Government that leave our school and hospital building crumble while neglect critical infrastructure , from transport to renewable energy generation . today ' s plan must draw a line under the disastrous mismanagement of project such as HS2 , which promise to connect our country and community only to end up another hollow conservative promise , long delay and billion over budget . while we welcome the Government ' s intention to deliver productive investment , we will closely scrutinise its implementation . I have be concern that Ministers have be unable to answer question regard delegate funding from the structure fund , such as for Hammersmith bridge in my constituency . will the Minister confirm that specific project have be select , and will he ensure that infrastructure funding be distribute fairly for the benefit of all region ? will he set up a crumble hospital taskforce to identify creative funding idea , speed up construction timeline and put an end to the vicious cycle and false economy of delay rebuild , which lead to rise repair cost ? as we look carefully at the implementation of these plan , the Government must ensure that we have a workforce equip with the necessary skill to meet these commitment . do the Minister therefore agree that it be time to replace the broken apprenticeship levy with a broad , more flexible skill and training levy ? will the Government fulfil their promise to make Skills England an independent body with employer at its heart ? the hon . Lady be right to point to the fiasco of HS2 , which my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary update the House on yesterday . the complete and utter negligence in deliver on that project over many year have leave we with the legacy of have to pay more for long , which have implication for all the other thing we would like to do in the country . we commission the James Stewart review , which be publish yesterday . all its recommendation have be adopt , and lesson be already flow through this infrastructure strategy , so that we never end up in that situation again . the hon . Lady ask I about the structure fund , which be a particular fund that we prioritise because we know that in many constituency , bridge in particular often miss out on funding and be in desperate need of it . she will have to speak with the Department for Transport about the allocation of that funding , but I will make sure that she get an answer from my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary . rise — lastly , the hon . Lady ask about hospital maintenance . there be a big commitment in the infrastructure strategy on maintenance . maintenance be not sexy , and it be not good for election leaflet , but it be important . that be why we be commit so many billion today to it , because there be an enormous backlog . NISTA will be co - ordinate across Government and across all social infrastructure to make sure that we be prioritise that go forward so that people can see quick , real , tangible improvement to their public infra - structure in their local community . rise — order . the Minister miss the mexican wave that take place behind he . it be down to Chris Vince mostly , although probably it be also down to the length of the answer , which could be short . I thank the Chief Secretary for his excellent work on this strategy , which will turbocharge confidence in the investment community while improve the life , income and opportunity of my constituent in Darlington , which be exactly what I be elect to do . it will not surprise he to hear I ask politely for he to outline more detail on his ambition for the place - base approach , the Green Book reform and the pilot that he have mention . can we have one in Darlington , the home of many of his Treasury colleague ? I will give a short answer , give the time available . we will be set out further detail shortly about where we will be pilot these place - base business case . it be a new process for Whitehall . it require a level of co - ordination that do not currently exist , but the outcome if we get it right will be people experience co - ordinate , thoughtful infrastructure spending in the place they live , in a way that make sense for how they live in those area . I be sure my hon . friend will continue to bid for Darlington as we decide where to pilot those place - base business case in due course . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury mention the midland rail hub . he will know that the previous Government commit to the £ 1 . 75 billion project . there have be a pause , and paragraph 5 . 83 of the spending review state that the Government will fund its progression . in the spirit of short answer , can he tell I exactly how much money have be commit to it ? the difference from the last Government be that they promise thing with no money , and we be promise thing with actual money . the hon . member point to the midland hub in the spending review document . that be about development funding . one of our different approach under this infrastructure strategy be that , instead of just allocate the total estimate spend at the start of the project and let the project get on without proper oversight , we be issue development funding early and more often , so that we can have properly cost business case with proper assurance . that mean we can guarantee member of the public that we will deliver on our promise , unlike his party . I welcome this investment strategy . many of we have see at first hand the broken infrastructure we be deal with . the Chief Secretary will know my concern that many of the organisation we will be ask to tackle these problem be also deal with the legacy of the private finance initiative , which see building and project cost three time more than the actual asset themselves . the plea that many of we make to the previous Government to tackle these legal loan shark of the public sector fall on deaf ear , and I know that this Chief Secretary will not make the same mistake . would he be open to meet those of we who be keen to learn the lesson of the private finance initiative ? in particular , can we cap what private company can make on military contract , child ' s care home and other social infrastructure project , so that we do not see our public sector savage by these company in future ? I be always happy to meet my hon . friend . I can confirm that in the design and funding of NISTA , I have fund a particular team to work on the management of dispute under the old PFI contract scheme to make sure that we be get the good outcome and good deal for the public sector . I can not believe it , but I agree with the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) . it be a shock to the system , but the Chief Secretary have announce the return of the public - private partnership . the last Labour Government be a byword for disastrous contractual negotiation , and that lead to the infamous £ 1 , 000 lightbulb . give that Labour be so bad at these contract negotiation last time around , what confidence do the Chief Secretary have that he will be any well this time around ? I be usually confident in my ability , to be frank . we will be consult on some of the design detail . we will be use private capital for social infrastructure only in particular potential use case . we mention in the strategy today certain type of primary neighbourhood healthcare centre . we will be transparently consult on that detail , and we will only allow such capital to be use in a way that be value for money . we will not be return to the PFI contract of the past . I welcome the Chief Secretary ' s statement . as someone whose parent and grandparent grow up in and live in council housing and benefit from that opportunity , I particularly welcome the record investment in social and affordable housing . under the previous Government , the UK be 28th out of 31 OECD country for business investment , and it be regularly at the bottom of the G7 for the combination of public and private investment . will the Chief Secretary confirm that this strategy today will begin to turn that terrible legacy around ? I agree with my hon . friend on our extremely ambitious plan for council house — or social and affordable house , as we call they now . he will know that I , too , grow up in a council flat . I now represent the constituency of Bristol North West , and over 20 , 000 people in the city of Bristol be wait for secure housing . I be very confident that our £ 39 billion commitment on build affordable and social housing will make a huge difference to the life of people across the whole country . my hon . friend ask about unlock private capital . the good news be that plenty of investor want to invest private capital in the UK , but they have tell we through the british infrastructure taskforce and other vehicle that they do not invest for many year because they think that we have lose the plot in this country , whereas we now have a clear strategy . we have stability both politically and economically , and we will now work with those investor to provide opportunity across the country to bring money to community that have miss out for too long . I welcome the Chief Secretary ' s comment on maintenance . he may be aware that a huge maintenance project be about to begin on the most beautiful stretch of motorway in the country , the m6 at Lune Gorge . eight bridge under and over that motorway will need replace in the come year . will he have a look at the resource that be be make available to mitigate the impact on the local community ? the plan be to close the northbound exit and the southbound exit consecutively for three year , and to close the a685 bridge connect Kendal to Tebay . will he make sure that there be resource to ensure that there be temporary slip road , so that local community be not cut off ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman make a very good case , which Ministers in the Department for Transport will need to answer , but I be pleased to know that the Liberal Democrats think maintenance be sexy after all . through my work on the Public Accounts Committee , I have see just how severe the public estate maintenance backlog have become . in fact , the Conservatives have their head so deep in the sand on building maintenance that I be surprised they do not apply for planning permission . can my right hon . friend confirm that York ' s public building will benefit from the £ 9 billion maintenance fund that he have announce ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . one of the challenge that I learn on come into government be that the last Government do not even ask what the maintenance backlog be in certain department . there be not a clear set of datum that tell we which asset the Government own and the quality or state of they , so we have some pretty basic work to be get on with through NISTA as we allocate the money , which will go directly to the school , hospital and other public sector building that have be ignore for many , many year . the creation of another new authority will be meet with an eye - roll sigh in Scotland , because although it be call the National Infrastructure and Service Transformation Authority — a very shiny title — the reality be that it will have little oversight in Scotland . the plan announce today will generate Barnett formula money , which will go to Holyrood and disappear — it will go into ferry that do not float and thing like that . in my constituency the A75 road be a piece of critical national infrastructure . it service the ferry port to Northern Ireland , and it be vital for all the country that make up the United Kingdom . will we see any money come for that road through today ' s innovation , or will the money once again disappear into the coffer in Holyrood ? I politely point the hon . member to the fact that previously there be two function in Government , and I have close both of they and create one , so we be actually down by one . he ask about the devolved government , which have devolve responsibility . we will not interfere with the devolution settlement , but I think that he and I agree that Scotland need a new direction , and I hope the people of Scotland will vote for Anas Sarwar and Labour at the election next May . I welcome the UK Government ' s bold 10 - year infrastructure plan , and the swift action they have already take to green - light project such as the third runway at Heathrow . however , sadly for my constituent , infrastructure policy and delivery in Scotland be in the hand of the fail SNP Government — a Government who can not dual a road or build a ferry . we be in the grip of a housing emergency in West Lothian , and they be not build the home that we need . do the Minister agree that there be much that the SNP Scottish Government can learn from the UK Government about get the country build again ? I agree very much with my hon . friend . next week I will be meet finance Ministers from the devolved government in Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales . we will put forward today ' s update on our infrastructure strategy and seek to partner with they as well we can to deliver for people and place across the whole of Scotland . but give the track record of the SNP Government , I be afraid that I do not have a huge amount of confidence . the denial in this statement be truly breathtaking . this UK Government could not come up with a 10 - year strategy that would survive first contact with reality on anything , and the statement come against a backdrop of challenging cut off the back of the poor while we be fit £ 10 million new door to the House of Lords and provide £ 100 billion for a not - very - fast railway that will not be finish for some time . there be nothing for Scotland in the Chancellor ' s spending review , there be nothing for Scotland in this statement , and there be nothing for Scotland in the UK ' s 10 - year infrastructure working paper . on that latter document , it be interesting to note that it do not mention devolution , Wales , Scotland or Northern Ireland once . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury think that simply mention Acorn will make private capital hang around and wait for the Government to put a number on it ? how much of this will be a rerun of Labour ' s disastrous private finance initiative project , which scottish council be still haemorrhage money on , and why be he herald work with the Welsh Government but not the SNP Scottish Government ? be he a democrat or not ? that be a stream of slightly incoherent question , if I may say so . I point the hon . gentleman to the document that we have publish today , which do mention Scotland quite a few time . he say that this Labour Government have not deliver anything for Scotland . I will just point he to the large real - term increase in funding since devolution begin — his SNP colleague might want to think about how they could spend that more wisely for the people of Scotland . that be in addition to the supercomputer in Edinburgh ; the development funding for Acorn , and for carbon capture , usage and storage ; and our defence spending , include on the Clyde — I could go on and on . the only people in denial be those in the SNP . I warmly welcome this statement . after year of neglect , it be quite clear that our infrastructure have be creak and that opportunity have be miss . that be particularly the case in the east of England , where the Government inherit a per head of population spend that be £ 1 , 000 less than the UK average . may I ask the Chief Secretary please to look at the Ely junction project , where for every £ 1 invest there would be a £ 5 return ? the project would help not only my constituency but dozen in the east of England , and help drive economic growth in our part of the world . I thank my hon . friend for raise the Ely junction . the great thing about the multi - year spending review in the 10 - year strategy be that the Department for Transport and its partner be now able to plan ahead , so I encourage he to talk to Transport Ministers about that particular project . he be right to say that we be absolutely in the business for high value - for - money case that unlock growth and opportunity in every part of the country . a long - term approach to spending be really sensible and I , as a northern MP , particularly welcome the Treasury review the Green Book to make sure that regional inequality be not far entrench by future spending . Stepping Hill hospital in my patch have a report repair backlog of £ 138 million , so I be really interested to hear the Chief Secretary talk about the pilot of place - base business case . can he say a bit more about how the Treasury will review those pilot , and do it mean that Stepping Hill be more likely to get the funding it need so that my constituent get the hospital they deserve ? I hope that Stepping Hill will be able to bid into the new , long - term maintenance fund so that we can get work do more quickly than it have be do in the past . on the place - base business case pilot under the Green Book review , we have not yet make any decision about where we will pilot they or how , so we now have to do that work . as I say in my statement to the House , the intention behind they be to look across different type of spending to make sure that we be create function place that have the relevant public service infrastructure , transport infrastructure and house building in one place . we will be able to come to the House with more detail on that in due course . I know that my constituent in North East Derbyshire will warmly welcome the infrastructure strategy , because we have be on the sharp end of Government Departments fail to co - ordinate when build infrastructure . can I make a bid for a place - base business case pilot in North East Derbyshire ? our unique mix of urban , rural and semi - rural community , as well as the fact that we be in the east midland and close to South Yorkshire and Sheffield , make we an ideal area for a pilot . it seem that I have a list of bid for place - base business case pilot , which we will take away and consider . my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight why this issue be important . when the Government be spend a lot of money on a particular thing , include through industrial policy or defence spending , we need to ensure that that translate into good job and good pay , with housing and good public infrastructure , so that people can access those opportunity and help drive the economy forward . as one of my constituency neighbour , the Chief Secretary will be aware of our local infrastructure need , such as upgrade junction 16 and 17 on the m5 , fix the original severn bridge and upgrade Westerleigh rail junction . the West of England have often be overlook in the past , so how will he ensure that the funding be distribute fairly and for the benefit of all region ? note that I need to manage carefully my conflict of interest as a Minister and a constituency MP , I would just point the hon . Lady to the announcement make the other week — I think it be very good — about nearly £ 800 million of devolved funding go to the Mayor of the West of England , Helen Godwin , allow she to get on with lot of the transport upgrade that in the past we wait many year to get fund . I be encourage by the Minister ' s statement , which be a plan to rebuild Britain from the mess leave by the Conservatives . can he inform the House how constituency such as mine can take advantage of the new place - base business case as part of the Government ' s Green Book strategy ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a champion for secure investment in her constituency . the approach with the Green Book have be change to make sure that we be invest in the place that have be leave behind for too long . it will be for local leader to work together to bid for the type of funding that will enable they to deliver on the Government ' s mission , whether that be house building , economic growth or help public service get back on their foot . we will certainly be open to bid from her constituency and region in due course . I welcome this announcement , and while there be aspect that I do not support , I particularly welcome the Government ' s investment in vital flood defence . as the Minister know , these be critical in ensure that we be well protect against the impact of climate breakdown . with the Met Office warning this week that we could reach 45 ° temperature in the current climate , clearly the effect of climate breakdown be already here . do he agree that protection need to be fully integrate into every aspect of our economy — from housing to transport and farming — and do he also agree that it be a good idea to put climate resilience and preparedness on a statutory footing by require all major infrastructure provider to carry out climate risk assessment in order to make we all safe ? I thank the hon . member for raise those important point . adaptation and sustainable development be at the heart of this infrastructure strategy , and they have to be for all the obvious reason . he may like to know that , as part of our new approach to spatial strategy in Government , we be already integrate datum from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs on flood risk , heat risk and water availability with datum from other Departments — for example , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government — to ensure that we be plan properly for the future . I welcome the Green Book review of the co - ordination of join - up infrastructure thinking — thank you so much . promise have previously be make to local place affect by major infrastructure project that they would see some local benefit . with that in mind , and with the low Thames crossing come to Gravesham , will he meet I to see how Gravesham could be a pilot for this place - base study and to really help with the affordable home that be also desperately need ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I be always delighted to meet she , and we should meet colleague from the Department for Transport to make sure that , where we be invest billion of pound — whether that be public or private capital — in important infrastructure such as the low Thames crossing , people benefit from the wide effect of that investment . last week something amazing happen : I actually find myself in agreement with the Labour Mayor for York and North Yorkshire , when he say that spend review " announcement fall well short " , and that this " government have a real chance to show it be serious about rural … area — but it miss it . " do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree with I that one of the good way to invest in new infrastructure would be by dualle and electrify the line between Leeds and York via Harrogate in order to unlock growth in our part of Yorkshire ? I thank the hon . member for his question . as he will have see from the Chancellor ' s previous statement , we be increase investment in transport — whether rail , road or bus — specifically in the north and the midland , so there be plenty of opportunity to bid for the project he mention , and I be sure he will talk to Transport Ministers to make that case . I thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his statement and for the national infrastructure strategy . it be particularly welcome that , after the dither and delay of the last government — who fail to get important project such as the low Thames crossing , which have be mention , over the line — this Government be finally set out a plan to do so . do he agree with I that invest in infrastructure set the foundation for growth across the whole country , so that there will be not only job in north Kent , a reduction in congestion and opportunity for small business , but majorly enhance connectivity for business in the midland and the north with our channel port ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and he will see in due course , when the industrial strategy be publish , that we have be think across Government about the role of infrastructure as an enable investment to unlock other type of investment , and to create great opportunity for people and economy where they can afford to live and be able to get around to access those opportunity . the Chief Secretary ' s statement make no mention of rural area . when it come to infrastructure , Welsh rural community have for decade lose out , with a lack of investment in both our physical and digital infrastructure . unfortunately , the £ 445 million on rail do not come anywhere near rural Wales . what be the Government do to prioritise investment in disadvantaged rural area in Wales ? I thank the hon . member for her question . without want to go through the entire infrastructure strategy or spending review , there be significant money come to all part of the country . the Chancellor have increase day - to - day spending by £ 190 billion and capital spending by £ 120 billion , so I be confident that the hon . member ' s constituent will benefit from an improved national health service , improve road maintenance and improve digital infrastructure . there be a very long list of thing people will be able to experience , and they will see the difference make by a Labour Government as we deliver on our promise of change . I be hope that the next question will be as entertaining as his constant chuntering . I call Alan Gemmell . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be very nice to finally be recognise by the Chair . do the Minister agree that this approach to investment be fundamentally different from the conservative chaos that lead to crumble school , hospital and road , and light - year away from that of the SNP Government , whose profligate waste of public money have lead to a £ 1 billion ferry fiasco in Ayrshire ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out the failure of other government — both the previous Government at Westminster and the current Government in Scotland . when prepare this work in opposition , I be very take by investor say , " when I can invest anywhere in the world , if the UK say it be go to do something and Germany say it be go to do something , I be probably go to bet on Germany over the UK . " that have to change because Britain be a brilliant country with lot of opportunity . the long - term stability we be set out in our strategy , our long - term spending plan and our commitment to stability be unlock that investment to create great opportunity for people across the whole country , include in Scotland . I hope the Minister appreciate just how insulting it be to Welsh ear for we to be tell that we be get a fair deal on railway funding , when we know that we have be cheat out of billion of pound due to the classification of several project as England and Wales project . Wales be get only five railway station between Newport and Cardiff . that be hardly national renewal , be it ? will he bet on Wales and commit to project outside that belt , such as project across mid - Wales and west Wales or the electrification of the north and south line ? there be a key difference : under the last government , Wales do not get a penny , but under this Labour Government , work with the Labour Government in Wales , it have have not only the large real - term increase in spending since devolution begin , but £ 455 million for rail infrastructure , nearly £ 130 million for coal tip safety and many other thing . that be the benefit of two Labour Governments work together to deliver for the people of Wales , and the hon . Gentleman may want to be a little bit more grateful in future . I thank my right hon . friend for his very welcome statement . in my constituency of Bathgate and Linlithgow , we have the Avon gorge , which be unsuitable for the volume of heavy good vehicle that traverse it every day ; a motorway junction at Burghmuir only for traffic go east , not west ; and , of course , the long - await Winchburgh train station that have never be deliver , despite year of promise from elect SNP Members . as well as be in my constituency , they be in the constituency of the SNP Cabinet Secretary for Transport . can I urge my right hon . friend to encourage his counterpart in the Scottish Government to take a leaf out of this Government ' s book , and invest in infrastructure to support our business and local community ? I thank my hon . friend , who know that this Labour Government at Westminster have give the Scottish Government the money to get on with the job . they have no excuse leave for not deliver for the people of Scotland . we will continue to partner with and support the Scottish Government as good we can , but ultimately the SNP - lead Government in Scotland have to change their way , and if they can not , the people ' s only choice will be to vote for a new direction under Labour next May . I thank the Minister very much for his answer . he be always incredibly pleasant , and we appreciate that . can he confirm that the 10 - year strategy incorporate the need to enhance connectivity throughout the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? in particular , may I ask he about flight between Belfast and other major UK city , which be become more costly by the day ? I thank the hon . member for his question . he will know that the Government have renew our commitment to regional airport capacity , with plan for a national policy statement to be publish in due course . I be sure the Transport Secretary and her team be listen to he on the increase cost for his constituent of those flight , which we would of course like to reduce , if we can . as a civil engineer , I absolutely welcome the Minister ' s statement , but I want to respond to it within the context of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . if he do not mind , I will start by give he some advice . if he be go to meet his counterpart in the Scottish Government , do not mention Sheriffhall roundabout on the Edinburgh city bypass . [ interruption . ] my hon . friend the Member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) be laugh . over the past eight year , there have be lot of report but no delivery and the price have move from £ 120 million to , I think , £ 300 million now — quite incredible . on to my point , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome the long - term plan . there be kid at school today who will be involve in deliver it . I welcome the connection with school and college , but my right hon . friend will know that university in England be under huge pressure and university in Scotland be in crisis . what part will they play in develop the skill we need to deliver these project ? our university play a crucial part in our education and skill landscape . they be , of course , privately - own organisation and so be fund separately from the departmental budget we have allocate in the spending review . the money announce last week and in the infrastructure strategy today be for school and further education college . any further change to help university with their estate will be announce in due course . please keep question short . I spend a week in Leeds at the UK ' s Real Estate Investment and Infrastructure Forum , bang the drum for Bournemouth and the south - west to say that we be open for business with this Labour Government . investor and builder be respond . they be encourage by the pension , regulatory and planning reform and by this infrastructure approach , but we need more investment . we have £ 1 . 6 million go into Bournemouth and Poole college , £ 500 million into two new NHS building and £ 230 million into water upgrade , but we need more . will the Chief Secretary meet I and Dorset mp to consider how we will take forward this place - base approach towards investment , so that Dorset can benefit ? that be not a short question . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank my hon . friend for his question and for championing not just his own constituency , but the region in which it sit . he be right to raise the fact that many community have lose out on funding over many , many year because of the chaotic approach under the previous Government . our approach to this long - term strategy , with long - term funding and partnering with private capital , be essentially set up to try to drive investment in the place that have miss out . I would be delighted to work with he to try to unlock those opportunity . Don ' t let I down , Chris Vince . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his statement and in particular for the funding for the maintenance of hospital . I will be lobby the Health Secretary in due course , but first will my right hon . friend let I once again advocate for Harlow in respect of the future of the UK Health Security Agency ? it be shovel - ready , well located and cost - effective . I thank my hon . friend for continue to make the case for that investment in his constituency . now that the spending review have conclude , it will be for the Department of Health and Social Care to make decision on the allocation of its spending . I be sure that he will continue to lobby the Health Secretary in the normal way . I welcome the statement . do the Minister agree that our investment plan be a world away from the chronic under - investment of the previous Government , with their lack of investment in public service , housing , people and an ambition for Britain . that include the previous Government decimate shipbuilde in my city , snatch it away and not replace the economy and job , leave a hole for 14 year . how will this Government ' s plan deliver for Portsmouth ? will he meet I to see how we can finally open up place - base investment for Portsmouth and wide Hampshire ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we have long - term budget , a long - term strategy and a long - term commitment to place across the country , in particular to Portsmouth where , work with our friend in the Ministry of Defence , we be spend an increase amount of money to ensure we have wide benefit for community and for worker in that sector . Milton Keynes be proud to be a grow city , but too often under the previous Government new home do not come with the infrastructure require for the new community . will the Minister please set out how the new strategy will help to support the infrastructure , in particular GP surgery and hospital , that will be need to support those new home ? more specifically , will he please let we know how it will help to support the building of new town when we hear back from Sir Michael Lyons in his report shortly ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the legacy issue of poor planning . NISTA , our new centre of expertise in the Treasury that be implement the strategy , have be give the authority by Cabinet to co - ordinate spatial strategy across Government . that mean that Departments will have to think between themselves about make sure that they put thing like GP surgery and hospital in the right place when they be build significant number of new home . our long - term plan be have an immediate effect in South Norfolk : over £ 200 million for the Thickthorn junction , £ 8 . 9 million for the Norfolk and Norwich hospital , and upgrade to four gp practice — [ interruption . ] all of which will support the constituency of the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) as well . I would not be do a good job as the MP for South Norfolk if I do not flag the amazing work of the Norwich Research Park and advocate for future investment in it . I congratulate my hon . friend on be so successful in secure so much investment in his constituency . I be sure his constituent will be deeply indebted to he now and in future election . I know he will continue to make the case for investment for his constituent . Warm Home Discount with permission , I wish to make a statement on the action we be take to cut energy bill for work family . three year on from the russian invasion of Ukraine which send price soar , people up and down the country be still feel the impact . everywhere I go in this job and from every person I speak to , I hear how the wage that use to support family be be swallow up by sky - high energy bill month after month after month . the truth be that for as long as we remain dependent on gas and volatile global market , british people will continue to pay the price and we will continue to be hold back as a country . that be why we be finally end our exposure and our vulnerability by sprint to clean , affordable energy that be control by we . we know that in the meantime , we must do everything we can to support family who be under huge amount of pressure with their energy bill . today , we be set out how we will help million more household with their bill this winter by expand the warm home discount . previously , around 3 million people receive the £ 150 rebate off their energy bill , but million of people live in home not classify as " hard to heat " be exclude as a result of criterion introduce by the previous Government in 2022 . we believe those criterion be unnecessary and unreliable . we believe that it can not be fair to have two family in almost exactly the same circumstance , with one receive help and one not . that have be raise repeatedly by consumer and their advocate since the change be make in 2022 , and I absolutely understand their concern . that be why we be abolish this restriction . this winter , every single household where the bill payer receive a means - test benefit will be eligible for the warm home discount , which mean a further 2 . 7 million low - income household will get that vital support . in total , more than 6 million household — one in five family in Britain — will get the help they need this winter . this expansion will help we meet our goal of tackle fuel poverty , which be critical to the work of my Department . it will increase the number of fuel - poor household that receive support , with coverage improve from 30 % under the current scheme to around 45 % . in total , 1 . 6 million fuel - poor household will receive support . I have meet people on the frontline of the energy bill crisis up and down the country , so I know for a fact that there be family out there right now breathe a sigh of relief because this measure will ease the huge amount of pressure they be under with the cost of living . one issue that be often raise with I be that family can miss out on the warm home discount because the person who receive the means - test benefit be not name on the energy bill . to be eligible , the means - test benefit recipient , their partner or their legal appointee need to be name on the energy bill . I encourage all family who receive a means - test benefit to check that and , if necessary , to contact their supplier . People need to ensure that the benefit recipient , their partner or their appointee be name on the bill before the warm home discount qualifying date , which be 24 August . at the same time , we be go far to put the energy market back in the service of work people , take step to restore confidence and faith in the energy market , which have be shake . as it stand , too many complaint against energy company go unresolved or take too long to fix — whether it be supplier not respond quickly enough or fail to adjust direct debit when family use less energy — which lead to a situation where consumer often do not access the compensation they be entitle to due to an overly complex complaint system . this Government be absolutely committed to stand up for consumer who have have a bad experience of the energy system , and we be work hard to ensure that the system work in the interest of consumer . we have already make real stride in improve condition for customer . follow the Secretary of State ' s intervention and month of Government work with the sector , Ofgem announce £ 18 . 6 million of compensation for victim of force prepayment meter in May , and we will continue to go far . this be a Government willing to use every tool in our arsenal to fight for work people . by move at speed to deliver clean power , and with the spending review set out the big investment in the domestic clean energy industry in history , we will take back control of our energy system and do the job of protect consumer . that be why we have waste absolutely no time in drive forward our clean energy mission in our first year , end the onshore wind ban , consent more than 4 GW of renewable energy , launch Great British Energy , fund a new golden era for nuclear , kick - start carbon capture and hydrogen industry , and invest £ 1 billion already to upgrade up to 300 , 000 home , with £ 13 . 2 billion commit in the spending review to upgrade million more . this be how we will rebuild our energy network and protect family across the country : by support more people who need our help this winter ; by restore confidence in a reform energy market ; and by bring bill down for good with secure , reliable , clean energy . we will ensure that every family in this country have the security of a home they can afford to heat now and in the future . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement — what a delight it be to receive an update on the warm home discount on this , the warm day of the year . I know that the Minister be a tireless champion for the people of Peckham and for the most vulnerable , and I thank she for all the work that she do behind the scene for those cause . exactly one year ago today , the Chancellor say : " great British Energy , a publicly own energy company , will cut energy bill by up to £ 300 . " what have happen since ? bill have not fall by £ 300 , as be promise so many time by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor , the Energy Secretary and Labour mp . in fact , bill have go up by almost £ 300 — the opposite of what they all promise just a year ago . on top of that , this Government take the winter fuel payment away from million of pensioner through a cold winter . this announcement will provide support for some , but it be nothing more than a stick plaster — the fact be , this Government ' s energy policy be make people cold and poor . the Minister have not say a single word about how this expansion will be pay for . it be a £ 400 million commitment , but there be no detail in either the Government ' s press release or the Minister ' s statement about how it will be fund . will the warm home discount still be fund by levy on everyone ' s energy bill ? if so , this policy mean that energy bill will increase for the majority of bill payer , yet the Minister do not say so in her statement . will she therefore inform the House whether she have ask her Department to calculate by how much levy on everyone ' s bill will increase to pay for the £ 400 million of extra spending ? if so , will she inform the House so that our constituent know how much their bill will increase by under this Labour Government ? the Government ' s press release say that the expansion of the scheme will be offset by efficiency saving across the energy system , but we have no detail about what those efficiency be , or how much money will be save . in fact , the system be become less efficient . the National Energy System Operator recently say that the cost of balance the grid by pay wind farm to switch off when it be too windy increase by 10 % to £ 2 . 7 billion a year , warn that this will triple to £ 8 billion a year by 2030 as this Government rush to build more wind farm and solar farm on agricultural land than ever before . that be what this government be deliver : more subsidy , more levy , more payment for wind farm to switch off , more tech import from China , and more cost add to everyone ' s bill . will the Minister share some proper detail with the House on exactly how much this will cost the british people ? I suspect the answer will be a resounding no . this be a statement devoid of detail because it be design simply to distract from the fact that this Government ' s energy policy be in chaos and drive bill high and high . this be a government drive by the ideology of net zero , not by make energy bill low for family across Britain . it be a Government of broken promise . I think the hon . Lady have some cheek , give the previous Government ' s record on energy bill . when , under their watch , family across the country be pay sky - high energy bill — with people still pay the price of that today — the idea that the Conservatives would try to lecture we on energy bill be pretty rich . let I take the hon . Lady ' s question directly . yes , we be commit to reduce energy bill by £ 300 . we have pass the legislation on great British Energy and the institution be up and run . we be do the job of drive down bill — we stand by that commitment , and the way we will deliver it be through investment in clean power . it be very clear that our reliance and dependence on global fossil fuel market under the Conservatives ' watch be ultimately what lead to bill rise . labour will not make that mistake , which be why we be invest record level in renewable . that be the way we will drive down cost in the system and drive down bill . this policy be not about ideology ; it be about family across the country . the status quo be not tenable . we do not think it be acceptable to have bill at the current level and to leave family expose , which be why we be take action . the hon . Lady ask specifically how this policy will be pay for . the warm home discount be pay for under the price cap . we be very clear that we do not want other family ’ bill to increase in order to pay for this change . we have work with Ofgem to look for saving within supplier operating cost , for instance . give that debt spike under the energy crisis , mean that all household be currently pay a bit on the debt allowance , we be also work with Ofgem to get that debt burden down . we will use the saving there to cover the cost of this policy . we be very clear : support for those who need it ; protection for all household . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . I think the shadow Minister be right to highlight this statement be make on the warm day of the year — this be a Government announce a warm home plan to literally fix the roof while the sun shine , which the Conservatives fail to do . this announcement will benefit nearly 3 million family , no doubt help thousand in Hampshire , include many in my constituency . first , on datum sharing , one reason it be tough for many family and household to access these benefit be the inability to access datum between the supplier and the Government . secondly , give that the legacy of the previous Government be to leave we with the high electricity price in Europe , can the Minister confirm that the Government be continue to look at way to bring down electricity cost for both consumer and business ? as always , my hon . friend put it perfectly . I will pick up his point on datum sharing , which be critical . my Department and the Department for Work and Pensions have be work over the past few month on the sharing of mean - test benefit datum so that this will be automatic ; come this winter , all eligible consumer will receive a letter inform they that they will be get the warm home discount . it will be transfer on to energy bill as a credit — a direct payment for consumer — because we have do the groundwork to put that in place . on my hon . friend ' s critical second point , the relative cost of gas and electricity be incredibly high , and we know that be a problem for both household and business , particularly as we try to make that transition to clean energy . we be continue to do that work . I be very clear that we need to deal with that question in order , for example , for our plan to upgrade home to have the bite and traction they need , and we be absolutely committed to do so . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we welcome investment in warm home follow a winter in which million of household be live in fuel poverty . the crisis be exacerbate by the Government ' s cut to winter fuel payment — and we welcome the u - turn on that , too . the former Conservative Government ' s stop - start on home insulation policy leave thousand of vulnerable people in damp , cold and unsafe home , with low energy - efficiency standard and high bill during an energy crisis . give that home in this country be among the old and least energy - efficient in Europe , will the Government commit to an ambitious 10 - year plan for home insulation , for which the Liberal Democrats have long call ? will they ensure that household on low income will be eligible for free insulation as part of that plan ? and , follow the Government accept the campaign of my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for solar panel to be mandate for all new home , will they now look to introduce a full zero carbon standard for all new home and solar for car park , as put forward by the Liberal Democrats in amendment to the Planning and Infra - structure Bill ? I could not agree more . the record of stop and start on home upgrade and home insulation be one reason that we fail to insulate as many household as we should have do from the energy price spike . we be committed to a long - term plan to upgrade million of home across the country . that be what the warm home plan will do . we be delighted that this have be back by the Chancellor with £ 13 . 2 billion of investment , and we be now work on how we draw that out across the country . we will make sure that we have the right solution for every household , use a combination of insulation , solar , and heat pump . we want every household that get an upgrade to have a home that be warm and much , much cheap to run . that be our absolute focus and priority . on the future home standard , we have be work very closely with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and consult with developer . we be absolutely committed to drive forward standard . we have set out our ambition to make sure that future home be fit for the future , use solar and clean heat solution . we can not have the situation that we have have in the past , where we build home that need retrofit a few year later . we be committed to our ambition and we will be set out more detail in the warm home plan . I warmly welcome my hon . friend ' s announcement , which will mean that 240 , 000 people in Scotland will benefit to the tune of £ 150 directly from the UK Government . I know that she will be have conversation with our scottish counterpart — and I be sure that if SNP Members be here today , they would also welcome this announcement . as she be have those conversation , may I encourage she to talk about what she be do and how it differ from the SNP ' s approach , which involve independence thermometer and housing dashboard ? what this Labour Government be do down here be a practical , tangible example of how we can directly impact the life of work people . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be engage with the Scottish Government . today ' s expansion create more resource for the Scottish Government to ensure that direct bill support be provide to more household . alongside that , there have to be a plan to upgrade home and to make sure that we be deliver home that be warm and cheap to run . we will have a plan here , and we expect that , with the additional funding and the example that we have set , the Scottish Government will follow suit , but we be long past the stage of warm word and light action . we need to get on with it , because there be people across the country , include in Scotland , who be struggle . it be the responsibility of Government to get a grip and start to act . yesterday , as the Minister probably know , food bank group associate with the Trussell Trust lobby — very effectively — member on both side of the House . my local group , the Waterside food bank , impress on I the gap between the £ 92 , which the Government believe a single person be estimate to need to survive , and the £ 120 that the food bank believe be necessary for a single person to be able to survive alone . can the Minister give an indication as to what extent the gap between those two figure will be close as a result of this initiative ? I thank the right hon . member for a very good question . we know that family be struggle with the cost of living . we know that family be in poverty , and that many be have to make the choice between heating and eat . we be try to put in place a range of measure , and the warm home discount — this £ 150 — be part of it . we have extend free school meal to family on mean - test benefit . we be roll out breakfast club . there be a range of thing that we be try to do as a government to ensure that people who be struggle and who have be struggle for a long time be lift out of poverty . we be very clear about our ambition . every time labour come to power , our record be that we lift people out of poverty , and we will continue to do that . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , as will nearly a quarter of a million people across Scotland who will benefit from this £ 150 warm home discount for the first time . we always appreciate these measure a little bit more in Scotland , because our weather be a bit cold . we have to keep remind people of that , even today . do the Minister share my pride in this Government expand support for more people who need it most because we be turn the tide on failure and build a strong economy on the back of clean energy ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . the legacy — the inheritance — be woeful . I do not need to say that , because people feel it across the country . we , as the incoming government , have a responsibility to ensure that we be do everything that we can to lift living standard — everything that we can to support family who we know be struggle . I share my hon . friend ' s pride in our be able to expand the support , because we know just how much it be need . none the less , there be more that we need to do . we will not stop here . if we get the roll - out of the warm home plan right , and if we be upgrade home , we will be take up to £ 600 off bill . the big plan that we must take forward will help we to deliver clean power , so that we can reduce bill for everyone . this Government be clear about the task of improve living standard . it be core to what we need to do and to what we need to achieve as a Government , and we be get on and deliver it . will the Minister confirm that park home resident in North West Norfolk and across the country , who pay their bill directly to the site owner , will also benefit from the extended £ 150 discount , and that when they apply , funding will not be limit , so that everyone who be entitle to this payment will receive it ? I thank the hon . member for a really good question . park home be currently support through industry initiative and the warm home discount . we will continue to make sure that park home be support . there be obviously work that we need to do , because we be conscious that there be some customer who be not receive the discount , and we be work with industry to resolve that . I warmly welcome my hon . friend ' s statement today on the expansion of the warm home discount . it will mean that 240 , 000 people across Scotland , include many thousand in Paisley and Renfrewshire South , will receive £ 150 directly off their energy bill from this UK Government . will my hon . friend say a little more about the work be do to accelerate proposal to introduce a debt relief scheme , which would target unsustainable debt build up during the energy crisis ? my hon . friend be right to mention debt relief and the huge burden of debt that we have see . over the course of the energy crisis , we see debt increase to more than £ 3 billion . for many of those household in debt , there be no route to pay it off . we have be work with Ofgem to put in place a debt relief scheme , use a combination of write - off of debt and repayment plan , so that we can ensure that more people be lift out of energy debt and be in a position to afford their energy . the Minister know that I have a lot of time for she , and I welcome her announcement today , but it will be of little relief to those who be live with spray - foam insulation that be inadequately instal , and there have be no support from the Government to fix that . put that aside , I wonder what government support be available for off - grid household in rural area , to ensure that they do not miss out and be include in these plan ? rural consumer who be on mean - test benefit and link to an energy supplier should be support in the right way . we know that there be some off - grid rural household that be not with a particular energy supplier and that that be more difficult . this be why we be work with industry . there be a discretionary amount within the warm home discount that allow industry to find and target those people to provide support . I think all Labour member warmly welcome today ' s statement , particularly those in Scotland , where 240 , 000 family will benefit from £ 150 off their bill this winter . that include thousand of work family across my constituency . do the Minister agree that this be another case of the UK Labour Government make a manifesto commitment and deliver on it ? my hon . friend be completely right — a promise make , a promise deliver . that be what a Labour Government do . we be very clear about the change we need to deliver in the country . unlike the Conservatives and the Scottish Government , there be no warm word or faffe around ; we be get on with the job of deliver change . today ' s announcement of the expansion of the warm home discount be extremely welcome and will benefit many people across west Cumbria . one of the first meeting I have with Ministers after the election be with my hon . friend . could she set out more detail about how the really welcome warm home plan will build on this discount to create a permanent , lasting solution for family in my constituency , who face some of the draughty home in the country , to give they real financial benefit ? fuel poverty be an absolute scourge that we must work hard to eliminate . there be two thing we must do to achieve that . on the one hand , we must deliver bill support . the expansion of the warm home discount be so important , because more household in fuel poverty will receive it . on the other hand , we must make sure that we be do the job of upgrade home . this year we have invest £ 1 billion to deliver 300 , 000 upgrade , but that be not enough . we have to massively increase the number of upgrade so that we be deliver million over the course of this Parliament . we have commit to £ 13 . 2 billion , and we be now do the work of set out how we will drive the shift and change that we need to see across the country . we must ensure that the household that need it have insulation , solar panel , battery and heat pump so that their home be warm , and ultimately so that we can lower bill by up to £ 600 . today ' s announcement be very welcome and will make a real difference to many of our constituent . I be glad to hear the Minister reaffirm today that in addition to support with bill , the Government recognise the urgent need to ensure that every home be well - insulate and affordable to heat — a genuinely warm home — and be do that through both hugely increase standard for new home and insulate exist home . she have reference the £ 13 . 2 billion Government commitment to the warm home plan , which be welcome , though not enough , but why do the spending review document show that more than a third of that money — £ 5 billion of the £ 13 . 2 billion — be money that the Government expect to get back , presumably to be repay by household ? I think the hon . Member be refer to some of the financial transaction mechanism . we will deliver the warm home strand through Government support to some household as well as by work with energy company , whether it be supplier or distribution network operator , in order to ensure that we be drive upgrade . part of that will involve the Government provide loan to supplier , which they will pay back over time . I think that be what the hon . Member be refer to . we be very clear that we need up - front investment as a catalyst , and we be clear that we need to upgrade million of home and crack on with the job . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . this announcement will mean that over half a million more Londoners will benefit from a £ 150 discount on their energy bill this winter . do she agree that along with our free breakfast club , the £ 1 , 400 per year increase in the minimum wage and free childcare in school , today ' s announcement show that Labour be put money back into the pocket of work people in Ealing Southall and across the country ? my hon . friend be spot on . member on the Conservative Front Bench be chuckle away in front of I , but it be no joke . we inherit an absolutely atrocious set of circumstance . family across the country be pay for their failure , with the cost of live at a record high level . I go across the country to speak to people , and I see the impact of the Conservatives ' failure on people ' s life . we be not willing to accept that what we inherit be the status quo . that be why we be take decisive action . whether it be the expansion to the warm home discount and free school meal , the increase in the national minimum wage or our record investment in social housing , this Government be get on with the job of lift living standard in order to fix the mess we inherit from that lot . I thank the Minister for her statement and her answer . in the short time she have be in her role , she have always deliver good news , and that be quite a talent , so I say well do and I thank the Government for that . double the number of household in the United Kingdom will get £ 150 off their energy bill , and that be very welcome for those on mean - test benefit . however , with one in four child live in poverty in Northern Ireland , it be essential that this announcement apply in Northern Ireland too . will the Minister confirm that Northern Ireland be include in this help for the vulnerable and those in poverty ? will it come through Barnett consequential or another way ? Northern Ireland run its own separate scheme . we be in very close contact with the Northern Irish Government — in fact , I be in Northern Ireland yesterday . we be make sure that our work to deliver clean power , which be our route to lower bill , and , critically , our work through the warm home plan be co - ordinated . the hon . member be right that there be people across the country who be struggle at the moment , and it be absolutely our responsibility to take action to support they . I thank the Minister for this announcement . as she will recall , we meet back in September to discuss my concern about fuel poverty in my constituency , include the number of child live in cold home . we specifically talk about this measure . she have take it away , do the hard graft and deliver , so I thank she for that . as she say in her statement , there be people who may not get the discount because they do not know that they be entitle to it . the Government will know which people be receive the warm home discount and which people be on a means - test benefit and be not receive it . will she consider write to those family to make sure that everybody know the good news that this Government be put more money into their pocket ? I thank my hon . friend for the work he have be do to champion this agenda . I can confirm that we will be write to all household in receipt of means - test benefit to let they know that they be eligible for the discount . for the vast majority , it will be automatic ; they will not have to do anything , and the discount will turn up as a credit on their bill . there be a bit of action to take for people who be not the bill payer . we will get the message out that they must ensure that they be include as the bill payer in order to get the automatic support . thousand more of my constituent in Glasgow will have money off their energy bill this winter as a result of this Labour Government ' s decision . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and ask she to assure I that the Government will continue to work hard to deliver low energy bill for family in Glasgow . I can commit to that . the Conservatives tell we that our fight to deliver clean power and our work to upgrade people ' s home be ideological . it be not ideological ; it be down to bread and butter issue . we know that there be family struggle across the country . we be not willing to accept what we inherit as the status quo , so we be get on with the job of reduce energy bill , because improve living standard and deliver the change we be elect to deliver be a core priority for this Government . the Minister be right that because the Conservatives leave our country expose to fossil fuel price , people ' s wage be be swallow up by energy cost . it be right that we be sprint towards clean , home - grow energy as a long - term solution , and the tension in the middle east demonstrate why that be so important . we must also get support to people right now in Bournemouth East . I welcome the fact that 220 , 000 family across the south - west , include my constituent , will benefit from help this winter , but my constituent want to feel a bit of breathing room — to live , not merely survive . will the Minister confirm that tackle the cost of living be our no . 1 priority as a Government , and set out the way in which the Government be target the cost of living crisis ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to talk about the cost of living . he be also right to point out that we have huge exposure to global fossil fuel market , and at a point where we be see tension and conflict in the middle east , energy security become so critical . so we will continue , despite the naysayer on the Opposition Benches , to sprint to deliver clean power , but while we do that we be take action to reduce the cost of living . so , whether it be the expansion of the warm home discount , or the expansion of free school meal , or increase the national living wage , or the action that we be take to roll out breakfast club , or the action that we be take to build record amount of social housing , the Labour Government be commit to better living standard — not talk about it , but get on and deliver the change that we be elect to deliver . many family in Portsmouth North continue to face pressure from energy bill and the cost of living , so I congratulate my hon . friend and the Government on support those on the low income this winter , particularly through the change in the warm home discount , the £ 150 credit , the warm home plan and the additional fund that we have give to the household support fund , help people like Portsmouth North resident Amee , who I meet yesterday and who lose out under the last government ' s unnecessary , unreliable and unfair criterion . will the Minister join I in urge that — alongside our government — energy provider and council , include Portsmouth city council , do more to promote and advertise what resident must do to access these vital support to raise their living standard , so that family who be entitle to it get the help that they need ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be a clear obligation on energy supplier to do everything that they can to support vulnerable household . I meet with supplier regularly to emphasise that people be under pressure and that they absolutely must discharge their obligation . my hon . friend be also right to point out that we have to work with local government , regional government and partner on the ground to ensure that the support that be available — we will continue build on that support — get to the people that absolutely need it . I thank the Minister for her statement , which will help a quarter of a million household in the east of England . may I say , from a personal point of view , it be so encouraging to hear a government focus on green energy solution ? believe it or not , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be over 30 year since I be at school , learn about the importance of green energy — [ interruption . ] I know . will she reflect on the decision that this Government be make , include remove the ban on onshore wind , and how they will continue to benefit resident in my constituency of Harlow ? I can not believe it be 30 year ago that my hon . friend be learn about green energy . we have be sprint to deliver clean power . when we come into government we set a mission to do it by 2030 . there be naysayer , and there continue to be naysayer , but we be not deter by that . so whether it be remove the ban on onshore wind , whether it be record investment in nuclear , or whether it be a record renewable auction , we be very clear that we be put in the investment — we be put in the hard yard , the hard graft — to deliver clean power . why be we do that ? not because of ideology , but because we recognise that we inherit an energy system that be not work on behalf of consumer . we recognise that people be under huge pressure — a status quo that we be not willing to accept . we will deliver clean power , so that we can bear down on bill and ensure that we drive down energy bill for good . that be the end of the statement , so I will allow the Front bench a few moment to shuffle over as we continue the business for the rest of the afternoon . Bill Presented Deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) Bill Secretary Yvette Cooper , support by the Prime Minister , Pat McFadden , Secretary Shabana Mahmood , Secretary Hilary Benn , Secretary Ian Murray , Lucy Powell , Secretary Jo Stevens and Dan Jarvis , present a Bill to make provision about the effect , during an appeal , of an order under section 40 of the British Nationality Act 1981 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 268 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 268 - EN ) . Deputy Speakers order , that , for the period up to and include Tuesday 22 July 2025 , Sir Roger Gale shall act as Deputy Speaker and shall exercise all the power vest in the Chairman of Ways and Means as Deputy Speaker . — ( Kate Dearden . ) licence and Licensing I beg to move , that the draft Licensing Act 2003 ( UEFA Women ' s European Football Championship Licensing Hours ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 May , be approve . this summer , the UEFA woman ' s european football championship , commonly refer to as the Women ' s Euro 2025 , will be host in Switzerland . I be pleased to report that both the England and Wales woman ' s national team have qualify to participate in that prestigious tournament . the draft contingent order before the House today propose a temporary extension of licensing hour across England and Wales , should either England or Wales — or both — progress to the semi - final or the final of the competition . specifically , if either team reach these stage — I have to say , from my limited following of football , that it seem the woman ' s team have a reputation for do far well than our male team — the order would extend licensing hour from 11 pm to 1 be on the evening of the semi - final , which be schedule for 22 and 23 July , and the final , which be due to take place on 27 July . as member will be aware , section 172 of the Licensing Act 2003 empower the Secretary of State to make such an order in recognition of event of " exceptional national significance . " the decision to lay this draft order follow a public consultation conduct by the Home Office early this year . a significant majority — 87 % of respondent — support the propose extension of licensing hour for the semi - final and 84 % for the final , should the home nation qualify . respondent also agree with the propose duration of the extension — until 1 am — and support its application to both England and Wales . there be also consensus that the extension should apply only to the sale of alcohol for consumption on the premise . the order will therefore allow licensed premise to remain open until 1 be without the need to submit a temporary event notice . as a Northern Ireland MP , I wish to convey my good to the English and the Welsh lady ' team . although the order will not apply to Northern Ireland , that will not stop we cheer on the English and the Welsh team on a different timescale in our pub , our restaurant and our caf é s . it be always good to see solidarity between the four nation . I thank the hon . member for display his usual courtesy in express his good wish to the two woman ' s team . I be just about to explain that the reason we be take this order forward be to reduce the administrative burden on both business and local authority , save time and resource for all involve . as a Leeds United supporter , I feel the need to ask what a semi - final or a final be , but — [ Laughter . ] I welcome the order . do my right hon . friend recognise the benefit that the increase opening hour will bring to the pub and entertainment industry , and hopefully — if we get that far — the impact that will have on the community that support they ? I be just about to say that business in the hospitality sector , particularly pub and bar , stand to benefit from this modest extension , which would allow they to accommodate increase demand during these high - profile fixture . I fully accept that the hospitality sector have have a difficult time over the past few year , and that this be a helpful measure . it be right to acknowledge that police representative have express some concern regard the potential for increase crime and disorder . while operational decision on deployment and resourcing be a matter for individual force , I be confident that appropriate measure will be take to mitigate any risk , as have happen in similar case . notably , there have be no significant incident of large - scale disorder link to previous licensing extension , which be testament to the professionalism of our police service , to which we owe our thank . I also emphasise that this be a limited and proportionate two - hour extension . it apply solely to the sale of alcohol for consumption on the premise after 11 pm and do not extend to off licence , supermarket or other premise license only for off - sale . to clarify one final point , if neither England nor Wales reach the semi - final , the propose extension will not apply on 22 or 23 July . similarly , if one or both team reach the semi - final but do not progress to the final , normal licensing hour will apply on 27 July . I also make member aware that my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) be sponsor a private Member ' s Bill , support by the Government , which seek to make such order subject to the negative resolution procedure in future . that mean that less time will be spend , particularly on the Floor of the House , have to agree such measure . the Bill have complete its Committee stage in the House but will not be enact in time to apply to this summer ' s tournament , hence the need for this order to be bring before the House today . should this order receive the support of the House , as I hope and expect it will , it will reinforce the argument that debate such measure may not represent the most effective use of parliamentary time . in conclusion , this order have be bring forward in recognition of the significant public interest in the forthcoming tournament and , in particular , the hope and expectation surround the England and Wales team . on that note , I take the opportunity to wish the player of both team the very good of luck . I be sure they will do themselves , their fan and their nation proud , and I commend the order to the House . I call the shadow Minister . we be delighted to support the temporary licence change , as I be sure be member on all side — although , to be fair , I do not think I would have much choice on the matter , for if I ever stand at this Dispatch Box and oppose more time in the pub to watch football , my dad would probably disown I . the change , as the Minister have outline , will extend licence by two hour for venue that already have licence until 11 pm and apply if England or Wales , the two qualifying team in the UEFA woman ' s Euro , reach a semi - final on 22 or 23 July , or the final on 27 July . there be no reason we should doubt that they will reach that threshold because we be the defend champion , after England ' s magnificent performance at the 2022 tournament , host in the UK at Wembley . the final see a 2 - 1 victory and , of course , it be make all the sweet by beat the Germans . this be a fantastic time to support our local as well as our national team . it be also worth take the time , however , to note that since the autumn Budget , the hospitality sector be sadly report a spike in the number of pub closure . that be no surprise , as the Chancellor ' s raid on pub have cost they at least £ 2 , 500 per full - time employee . sixty per cent of pub say they have cut job and three quarter say they have increase their price as a direct result . therefore , even though the licensing change mean we might all be able to go to the pub for a little long , it will cost we a bit more for a pint — and sadly , for many , the local might not even be in business any more . now , more than ever , we need to support our local , such as the 63 pub that be nominate in my Fylde pub of the year competition , which be win by the Coach & Horses in Freckleton . I be sure that the two Grahams who run that crack establishment will be delighted with a shout - out from this Dispatch Box , but they will be even more delighted with the Minister for have a bit of extra time to sell some more pint of Ponkys ale . that just leave I to finish by wish the England and Wales team good luck — though , of course , I be biased and hope to be raise a glass to England , once again , thrash Germany . just before I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , it would be remiss of I not to mention my local football club , Crowborough , and that we be a family of Gooners . England ' s Lionesses have a brilliant track record , and not just on the pitch ; they have continue to win heart , change attitude and redefine what woman ' s sport look like in this country . from their historic Euro 2022 win to reach the world cup final last year , they have spark a cultural shift that have touch every community , include mine in North Cornwall . in town and village across Cornwall , we find woman lace up their boot , take to the pitch and build the next chapter of the game . team such as Bodmin Women , Bude Town Ladies , Kilkhampton Ladies and countless other be part of a grow movement to put woman ' s sport on an equal footing with man ' s . I can not stress how vital our national team and local grassroots side be to inspire young girl to dream big . when girl in place such as Bude or Padstow see the Lionesses celebrate on the same scale as the man ' s team , it send a clear message : this game be for you , too , and you belong here . that be why this licensing change really matter . it might seem technical , but it carry symbolic weight . it will also have a really positive impact on our hospitality industry , at a time when it be struggle with increase national insurance and business property relief change . it tell the country that woman ' s football deserve the same celebration , the same energy and the same place in our national life as the man ' s game . visibility alone be not enough , however . at school level , where a lot of the passion start and a lifelong love of the beautiful game be ignite , only around two third of girl be get the chance to play football during physical education lesson . that be unacceptable . we Liberal Democrats believe that every young person should get at least two hour of quality physical education a week , back by proper facility and the right funding . we also need to ensure that grassroots club , such as those in North Cornwall and across the country , have the coaching , resource and safe space they need to thrive . I have see the appetite in our local community at first hand ; we just need to match it with the support . the Karen Carney review in 2023 offer a road map for long - term progress , but progress must also mean equity and treat woman ' s sport not just as an add - on , but as an essential part of this country ' s culture . collectively , I be sure that all member of this House will join I in get behind the team in our village , town , city and school , encourage the future of woman ' s football to be write on school field and local pitch by the next generation . I take this opportunity to wish both Wales and England the very good of luck for the tournament . question put and agree to . Backbench Business Incontinence I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of incontinence . I thank the Backbench Business Committee and its Chair , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , who help secure this debate . I be delighted that we be debate this vital but often ignore issue during World Continence Week . the definition of a taboo be a subject so difficult , repulsive or offensive that it can not be mention in polite conversation and can be articulate only in hush , embarrassed tone . once , menstruation be a taboo and we be not suppose to talk about it . once , cancer be a taboo , and in some community it still be . once , mental health be a taboo and people cover it up . we can now discuss those thing more openly without embarrassment , we can seek the right medical advice and treatment , and we can offer support to one another and fight for decent healthcare for every aspect of the human body . how do I get here , in this Chamber , talk about human bodily function ? this have be a journey for I . I speak in the Westminster Hall debate on woman ' s health in February . as a physiotherapist , I talk about pelvic health and the importance of rehabilitation and pelvic floor exercise . my word seem to have strike a chord . colleague , resident and professional all email I to thank I for speak out and to share their experience . it start to snowball , and I ask myself , " why aren ' t we talk about this more ? " I be advise that this be the first ever general debate on this topic in the Chamber , so I congratulate the House . what be we actually talk about ? we be talk about the involuntary loss of faece and urine , which can be cause by pregnancy , neurological condition , multiple sclerosis , spinal cord surgery , musculoskeletal condition , disability , menopause , prostrate - relate condition and many more reason . the crippling fear for patient be that it might happen at work , in public or in social setting . patient have tell I that they feel like a prisoner in their own home , catch by a condition that mean people avoid other , do not go out , can not go to work , do not have relationship and feel a crush sense of shame . People ' s mental health suffer to the point of serious illness . our language reflect society ' s attitude : " wet your knicker " , " pee your pant " , or ruder variant that I will not say . yet we be talk about a range of condition that affect million of our resident . do you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that bladder and bowel incontinence be more common than hay fever ? the NHS estimate that 14 million people live with bladder problem — one in five of the population — and it be man as well as woman . the NHS say that 2 million man experience involuntary loss of urine . a third of woman live with these condition right now — that ' s right : a third . yet this be another aspect of health that be woefully unsupported and push off the agenda . it affect 1 . 5 million child and young people . one in 12 child across the UK battle these debilitate symptom , include bed wet , chronic constipation and soiling . half a million adult have bowel condition that lead to the involuntary loss of faece . we have a population that be get old and survive complex condition , such as cancer , and that will increase the prevalence of bladder and bowel dysfunction . when it come to bowel condition , we be talk about the involuntary loss of faecal matter , which can be because of irritable bowel syndrome , Crohn ' s disease or other condition , such as bowel cancer . I have not even touch on what people suffer when they be doubly incontinent . our NHS collect datum on anything and everything . the number of patient with continence care need to be routinely publish , and it be not . my first ask of the Minister — and I have several — be , why not ? the House will note — notwithstanding the title of the debate — that I avoid the term " incontinence " and " continence " . I have speak to so many people with bladder and bowel condition , and my feeling be they be the wrong word to use and they carry too much stigma . to give justice to the debate , I have conduct roundtable with expert and patient and have share anonymous survey . Dawn share her story with I . she notice some urinary leakage 10 year ago , when she be 50 . now , at the age of 60 , she speak to I about her journey . she do not go to the gp because she feel ashamed . it get bad and she begin to see the gynaecologist . she get the strength to speak to the GP , who give her tablet . three round of tablet do not work . her symptom get bad , and she be unable to leave the House . the gynaecologist refer she to a physiotherapist and specialist nurse . I ask what go wrong here : it be the lack of prevention . prevention , prevention , prevention be key . physiotherapy be recommend as an integral part of woman ' s health , especially with pelvic floor dysfunction . accord to the 2019 NHS long - term plan , " physiotherapy be by far the most cost - effective intervention for prevent and treat mild to moderate incontinence and prolapse " . insufficient physiotherapist number mean that woman who experience pelvic floor dysfunction or prolapse wait month or year , or miss out on treatment entirely . woman often end up need surgery that could have be avoid with early intervention . Dawn eventually receive specialist care , and her symptom have vastly improve . she only get the odd leakage here and there . her advice to other be " see your gp … don ' t leave it and ask for a referral to see a specialist " . I have the privilege of see one such specialist service in my constituency — Dudley adult bladder and bowel service , know as DABBS — where I meet patient and practitioner like Ola Rawlins , team lead and clinical pelvic health physiotherapist , who share her story , which be eye - opening . patient tell I how GPs ask about bowel but seldom bladder . a patient — Leanne — say she feel ignore , fobbed of and misdirect . one feel like a " prisoner " . ola ' s patient feel like a ball bounce around different part of the system . man , especially those with prostate cancer , be reluctant to take part in self - help group , and many man do not even know they have a pelvic floor and think only woman do . yet symptom can be easily treat with the right intervention , treatment and course of rehabilitation . research show that for every £ 1 spend on woman ' s health service , there be a return of £ 13 , thank to a reduction in emergency admission , few miss day at work and well long - term health outcome . I know the Department of Health and Social Care be consult on the man ' s health strategy , and I trust that the Minister will ensure that this aspect of man ' s health be front and centre . the DABB service call itself a " Cinderella service " . the testimony of patient and professional be humble to hear , but it make I so angry . we be let too many people down . so what must change ? we need to talk about the taboo , and we need action . we need a renaissance of public toilet : to maintain the one we have , open the one that be closed and build new one . I want to see bin in both man ' s and woman ' s toilet , so people can throw these product in the bin . I support the Boys Need Bins campaign by Prostate Cancer UK , and I congratulate the all - party parliamentary group for bladder and bowel continence care for its work . I ask that this place be a pioneer in this space by place bin in all man ' s toilet . we also need well food labelling , so that fibre be list on product and people can understand how they can get well bowel health . we need to ensure that the AI and robotic revolution in healthcare do not miss bladder and bowel care . we need a join - up service between GPs , hospital , clinic and patient group . perhaps we could have more sympathetic and subtle signage in healthcare setting . product provide outside healthcare setting could have simple label on shelf , such as " body care " instead of " incontinence product " . that tackle the embarrassment of be see by a friend or neighbour buy they in the shop . I urge the Minister , as the 10 - year plan near publication , to ensure that bladder and bowel care be include . much need to change , but today I have five concrete ask for the Minister . first , we need a public information campaign to raise awareness and smash the stigma , as recommend by Dr Sara Webb of the Royal College of Midwives . the NHS rightly spend million on campaign , such as cancer screening , the use of 111 and sepsis awareness . will the Minister commit to a campaign on bladder and bowel care ? many year ago , when I work in the NHS , the board try to save money by change the incontinence product that people use . the product be not quite the same , which cause a lot of distress for the people who use they , as well as a lot of inconvenience for the health professional work with patient , particularly the district nurse team . in the end , it do not really save any money . do my hon . friend agree that it be important that people get access to the product that work for they ? I agree that product need to be readily available , and that be one of my recommendation . secondly , beyond awareness be prevention . we need real understanding , and I want bladder and bowel health to form part of the school syllabus , enmesh into the curriculum . that be a recommendation from surgeon Dr Robinson from the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists . let we give teacher the tool to teach it . I want this to form part of the training of all healthcare professional , so that medical profession understand bladder and bowel care from their early time in the job . we need a specialist workforce that include physiotherapist , nurse , surgeon and many other . can the Minister commit to place this issue high on the agenda for school , and to build a specialist multidisciplinary workforce who have the relevant skill and knowledge ? thirdly , we need enhance research and development on bladder and bowel condition and their treatment . that do not necessarily mean vastly increase spending ; it could mean look at how resource could be well prioritise . we can not diagnose , treat and rehabilitate , or look into future medical intervention , if there be limited research . fourthly — this recommendation be from Dr Ashish Pradhan , chair of the British Society of Urogynaecology — can the Minister commit to ban mislead advertisement that send the wrong message ? product subject to no regulation be advertise , and patient be tell to live with their symptom . fifthly , I have a recommendation from a patient I meet , Leanne . could we have a one - stop shop in which all service be under one roof , care that be close to home , and cheap incontinence product ? they be exempt from vat if they be purchase for personal use , or use by a register charity , but what if they be purchase by care home ? those be my five demand , back by expert — five thing that will ensure real progress . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . lastly , let I say this to man , woman , young people and child listen to this debate : you be not alone , and there be no shame . this subject be often surround by silence . it be a subject that people do not want to talk about , or do not know about , and that the NHS do not do enough about . that end now , and it end here . Incontinence be no respecter of person , and no respecter of sex , and it be male incontinence that I rise to speak about . the wry old joke be that man do not know they have a prostate until their other half read about it in the Daily Mail . campaign newspaper , such as the Daily Mail , and charity group like Prostate Buddies in my Dumfries and Galloway constituency have do a power of work to make man aware of prostate disease and prostate cancer — just as well , give that prostate cancer be the most common cancer among man . one in eight of we will be diagnose with it , and that figure rise to one in four for black man . it be well recognise that early diagnosis be key , but it be less well know that as many as 60 % of those treat with surgery will face urinary incontinence , outwith surgical intervention . Prostate Cancer UK say that one in 25 man age over 40 will experience some form of urinary leakage every year . the scale of the issue , and the number of people face the problem who report feel shame , embarrassment and isolation , be great than many suppose . the guardedly good news be that far from be alone , people suffer incontinence be a very large portion of society . it have be another silent epidemic , and people have be leave to suffer in obscurity . today be part of the solution to that . I congratulate the hon . member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) on secure the debate . give her medical background , I defer to she for advice on what can be do to relieve the physical symptom of incontinence — and much can be do . accord to the American Urological Association , well prostate treatment be cut the number of man who suffer incontinence after prostate treatment . pelvic floor exercise can help both man and woman , as can bladder training . but what can Government do , aside from make health policy decision on treatment for incontinence in all its form , be it suffer by man or woman , and be it post - op , prostate - relate or childbirth - relate ? small step can help . when the hon . member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) ask whether there have be discussion about provide bin in man ' s toilet for disposal of sanitaryware make necessary by incontinence , a Minister in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs give a rather technocratic answer , promise a Health and Safety Executive review of workplace regulation date back to 1992 on the provision of disposal facility in workplace toilet " in due course " . I hope the Minister can today confirm that the consultation can be fast - track . I hope that we have take a giant stride in this place today by strip away some of the stigma merely by give an airing to the issue of incontinence . there have be much talk recently about Parliament at its good , but surely this be Parliament at its good , consider unfashionable yet critical issue . today we bury the myth that this condition be somehow shameful . with this first ever debate on the subject , we take a modest but significant step towards improve the life of those who struggle with the burden of incontinence . a big thank you to my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for secure this extremely important debate . I be fascinated and not a little shocked to hear that this be the first full debate in the Chamber on this subject , and it be absolutely tremendous that we be talk about it , because we need to . as everyone have recognise , it be a subject that people rarely talk about , despite the fact that million of people be affect by bladder and bowel control issue — I will try to use that phrase instead of the term " incontinence " , after hear the point that my hon . Friend rightly raise ; I be scribble away when she say that . for much too long , this issue have be treat as a private embarrassment — something to whisper about , not act on . I be strike by what she say about the number of people who get in touch with she , cry out for this subject to be discuss , and for we to take action . we need to take action , because as well as be a very important health issue , it be almost a social justice issue , and an issue of dignity . far too many people and family face a daily struggle that have be quietly ignore . as be say , it be estimate that one in three woman in the UK experience urinary control issue , but the issue affect man , too . it be important that man speak in this debate , and I be very pleased that the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) do . as for my city , London , a recent survey for Prostate Cancer UK find that 54 % of all male Londoners have experience urinary control problem . More than one in four man — 28 % — experience symptom as early as between the age of 18 and 25 . that contradict the widely held view that bladder condition affect only old adult . then , of course , we come to bowel incontinence , which be more closely associate with age : 15 % of those age over 85 and live at home be affect , and the figure be even high for man and woman live in residential and nursing home . of course , we also have to think about bladder and bowel condition affect child and young people , and especially those with disability , whose voice be often the last to be hear anyway , and particularly the last to be hear on this subject . disabled and other child with these condition can miss out on education , friendship and an ordinary life because of a lack of basic provision . family feel ashamed when they ask for help , because they think that no one else be face the same thing . that bring we back to the importance of we discuss this matter in the House today . many family face this issue ; we need to make it safe to talk about it , and safe to ask for support . as I say , bladder and bowel condition be not only a health issue , but a social justice issue , and it be time we treat they as such , because that be not what happen now . despite the evident human cost , and the prevalence of these condition across society , support and service remain inadequate , and those affect and their family be leave to scramble for help . they face stigma . they too often endure isolation , yet as my hon . friend the Member for Dudley set out , there be simple , straightforward solution that would make a huge difference to those who live with bladder and bowel control issue . we can start by destigmatise the issue ; that be what we be do today , as have be say . at a national level , we need a public health campaign , lead by the Department of Health and Social Care , that make it clear that these condition be normal , treatable and nothing to be ashamed of . let I tell Members about one of the very few people in either House that I have hear talk about these condition . I go to a meeting on assist die — one of many such meeting , which colleague of all party have be to — at which I hear from a disabled Member of the House of Lords , and other people who be disabled and wheelchair user . they speak in a very matter - of - fact way about be incontinent — that be the word they use . they make it quite clear that it be perfectly possible to lead a normal and fulfil life with that condition . when I be grow up , old people would say to I , " the one thing I dread above all be be incontinent — I think I ' d take my life if that happen . " it be very inspiring for I to hear a Member of the other place talk about their situation , and talk about it release all of we from a particular challenge when it come to reflect on assist dying . my hon . friend the Member for Dudley mention Prostate Cancer UK ' s Boys Need Bins campaign . there be other , include the end Bladder Shame campaign by TENA , the maker of incontinence product . these thing show what be possible if people feel hear — but they need more support . alongside a public health campaign , let we have more investment in infrastructure . that mean more modern , accessible public toilet with clean , safe disposal facility for man as well as woman , which have be a long - stand request from charity like Age UK . we need to make sure that every school — mainstream school as well as specialist school — have train staff who can support child with bladder and bowel condition , not as an afterthought but as part of their core pastoral care . we have a Minister from the Department of Health and Social Care on the Front Bench , but I hope she can pass on the message to her colleague in the Department for Education that they should make sure school toilet be accessible , hygienic and inclusive , with disposal bin , lock and space — with dignity build in . finally , I would like to see we integrate bladder and bowel care into national health strategy . they should be a core part of NHS England ' s work on long - term condition , ageing and preventive care , not an afterthought . I look forward to that be reflect in the 10 - year plan and , I hope , in the forthcoming man ' s health strategy . well bladder and bowel care will save man , woman and their family from stress , it will save child from shame and the feeling of be leave behind , and , wonderfully , as my hon . friend the Member for Dudley say , it will save public money . it be a public good , and if we take this seriously , it will make a huge difference to a lot of people ' s life . let we give this issue the attention it deserve and do right by every person who have be live with these condition in silence for too long . rise — order . a significant number of member want to take part in the follow debate , so we be play " beat the clock " . I will not introduce a rigid time limit at this stage , but if Members could confine their speech to no more than six minute , we should get everybody in , get the Front Benchers in and give adequate time for the next debate . I welcome you to your place , Sir Roger ; it be a pleasure to see you there again . it be a pleasure to speak on this issue as my party ' s health spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for set the scene so incredibly well . the Patient and Client Council ' s 2020 report " Accessibility and Quality of Continence Services in Northern Ireland " — I always give a perspective from Northern Ireland — estimate that some half a million people in Northern Ireland live with bladder control problem and some quarter of a million with bowel control problem , with many experience both . when we remember that Northern Ireland ' s population be 1 . 95 million , it put that figure into perspective . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence estimate that 61 % of man in the general population experience low urinary tract symptom and some 34 % of woman live with urinary incontinence . I commend the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) for focus on prostate cancer . it be one of those thing that we menfolk do not wish to think or talk about . he be right : it be probably the wife who say to we when we have a pain somewhere , " do you go and see the doctor about it ? " we most definitely should go and see someone about it . this debate be about raise awareness . it be not a topic that be openly discuss , as the hon . member for Dudley refer to , because people often feel uncomfortable discuss their symptom and problem give the personal nature of the issue — I have to say that I feel a tad uncomfortable as well . as a result , many suffer in silence or wait a long time before discuss their incontinence issue with a healthcare professional . only 20 % of those affect go on to seek treatment , with many maybe not recognise their issue at first . continence issue can be a significant contributing factor to social isolation . whether we like it or not , many people will feel uneasy about these issue , so they will withdraw into themselves and seek to deal with their problem alone , which can prevent they from have a normal life . it be clear that we need to do more to remove any feeling of shame from continence issue , include by have a public conversation . I be very thankful that my local council , Ards and North Down borough council — I serve on Ards council at one time — provide sanitary bin in accessible toilet across the borough , include some male toilet . these bin be part of a wide initiative to make public toilet more inclusive , particularly for individual experience incontinence or with stoma need . this debate be also about those with stoma need . I be surprise by how many people I meet who carry a stoma bag . they have manage to deal with that , but it be not easy — it scare the wit out of I , I have to say . ard and North Down borough council have upgrade 44 of its accessible toilet with feature such as shelf , hook , mirror and bin to accommodate stoma care . my council have take that action already . additionally , the council be work to address the need for sanitary bin in all public toilet , include male toilet , where they be not currently a legal requirement . ard and North Down borough council have already do that because it recognise that that be the right thing to do . the council do this at its own cost and on its own initiative — not because it legally have to but because it recognise the need . this help to address the stigma , but it must be a UK - wide approach and not simply the decision of individual council . we commend Ards and North Down borough council : it do that because it be the right thing to do , not because it have to do so . one in five people be affect by these issue , and yet it be a silent topic , so it be good that we be speak about it today with the compassion , the understanding and the carefulness that it require . inadequate management of incontinence can lead to escalate cost due to morbidity and unnecessary hospitalisation ; those be the side effect . it be good to see the Minister for Secondary Care in her place , because she always respond helpfully to the question we ask . some 6 . 5 million adult in the UK suffer with some form of bowel problem , so it be imperative that we do thing well . one in 10 child will suffer from continence difficulty , whether it be bed - wet , daytime wetting , constipation , soil or difficulty with toilet training . the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) refer to that issue , and it can not be ignore . improve catheter care in the community would reduce a & E attendance and hospital admission , which fit well with two of the Secretary of State ' s three shift : hospital to community and sickness to prevention . can the Government commit to implement that in a co - ordinate strategy ? colleague have flag the many change that be need , and I know these can not be make immediately , but it be important that we move forward , that we have this discourse and that we dispel the darkness of shame and shine a light for those who feel isolated in the shadow . today be the first step in this journey , and I look forward to participate in further journey . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for bring this issue to the House for debate . unlike she , I be not an experienced health professional , so I will narrow my contribution to the issue of public toilet , their availability and their importance to those with incontinence . there be people who do not go out last week and who may not go out today or next week . they be those whose trip be always challenge by the lack of , or uncertainty about the availability of , public toilet — not just those who be incontinent , but those who experience any sort of urgency : those with irritable bowel syndrome , Crohn ' s disease or ulcerative colitis ; those who need to use the toilet more frequently because of age or pregnancy or because they be menstruate , have have prostate cancer , have stoma or other disability ; and those who be care for those with disability . very few of we will not be affect by these vulnerability at some point during our life , and we want our country to be one in which we be able to ensure dignity and the ability for those visit public space to have access to public toilet . local authority have power to provide public toilet but no statutory duty to do so , and this lack of compulsion have contribute to the decline in the number of public convenience . as a former local councillor , I know how stretch local authority budget be , decimate through a long decade of austerity and the political decision to centralise funding . in my constituency , which encompass the Lake District national park , we be very aware of the importance of good - quality public toilet to support tourism , and yet even there , at prime visitor site such as the start of the Keswick to Threlkeld railway path — a fantastic facility for those with disability to enjoy the Lake district — there be insufficient money to provide public toilet . just two year ago , this House consider appoint a commissioner for public convenience and make it a statutory duty for local authority to have public convenience plan . I be not sure why something so simple would require the creation of a commissioner , but like so many plan under the last government , it never come to pass . I ask the new Government to look again at establish a statutory requirement on local authority . in the meantime , I invite hon . member across the House to lobby their own local authority to ensure that they create , review and scrutinise public convenience plan , and make public space accessible to those for whom quality public toilet be the difference between inclusion and exclusion . a recent survey by the Association for Public Service Excellence find that over a third of local authority have reduce their provision of public toilet over the past decade . we know that provision have be decline even before then , but it be not all bad news . half of the council that respond in the 2024 survey do provide change place toilet . I congratulate the campaign organisation change Places , which have lobby so long and so hard to seek provision for the quarter of a million people in the UK , and their family and carer , who have for so long be condemn to loneliness at home by the lack of accessible public toilet facility . the late count of change place toilet in the UK be 2 , 607 . the campaign will have be instrumental in the 2021 building regulation require all new public building to put in large and well - equip toilet facility . many local authority have ensure provision in creative and economical way , through community toilet scheme and payment or rate reduction for business that open their toilet facility to the public . local authority can make planning permission , lease and premise licence subject to the provision of public toilet , and they can hand facility over to community operator . these be not always suitable or appropriate substitute for standard public toilet provide and maintain by the local authority , but as part of a portfolio of provision they help to increase access and often help to circumnavigate some of the issue of graffiti and inappropriate use that present problem for some community . I urge all hon . member to engage with our local authority and impress upon they how important it be for the public to be adequately provide with high - quality , well - maintain facility . I look to member participate in today ' s debate to join I in call upon this Government to draw up statutory measure . provide public toilet that support the most vulnerable people in our community should be a duty , not an option . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) on secure today ' s important debate . I have recently become the chair of the APPG for bladder and bowel continence care , and there be much to be do . as someone with a background in early year , I be sure that any parent of a young child will confirm that we be probably the people who talk about wee and poo the most in this world . they tell we vital health information — from the early day of have a baby , it be crucial . Bladder function be one of the sign of good health , and maintain that through adulthood lead to the prevention of incontinence . the importance of talk about wee and poo can not be overstate . as any three - year - old will tell you , that be because it be funny . Wee and poo be the funniest topic in nursery classroom up and down the country — and it be funny , right up until the point that it be not . when wee and poo stop be funny , it be devastating . it impact on people ' s mental and physical health , their dignity and their very independence . in some case , it can prove fatal . it be also entirely preventable . sadly , poo and wee be not funny for around 14 million people who have continence and incontinence issue . that figure alone hide some of the issue of deal with the enormous range of health condition in the field of continence . the figure of 14 million be base on datum gather in 2018 , and no recent datum be available . continence status datum be not record as standard on enter the NHS . the scale of the problem be simply unquantifiable . the nice guideline have not be review , and the finding of the 2017 report " Excellence in Continence Care " have not be fully implement . we need a strong mandate and a great focus on training for incontinence need across midwifery , dementia , cancer care and health visit team — literally from cradle to grave — and we need to provide that care in our community to avoid the need for crisis intervention in A & E . today , I will highlight just a couple of the complication from fail to provide a robust continence service . despite spend a large amount of my time surround by , and occasionally cover in , poo and wee , I do not arrive in Parliament intend to take on this role . I have be make aware for many year of the woeful lack of help for those with continence issue , the poverty cause by buy continence product , and the rationing of four pad a day . I have face the frustration of parent who have no continence service in Warwickshire at all until May 2024 . I have be aware of the trauma face by parent , especially those whose child have special educational need and disability , attend a & E with their child ' s constipation , which have reach agonising and dangerous level . it be , however , Elissa and Ivan ' s story that motivate I to take on my role , and campaign for more humane , systemic change to prevent the bad impact of continence issue . so many simple thing can be do to protect the dignity and independence , and improve the quality of life , of these 14 million people . when Ivan arrive at A & E , he be scream and in pain . his stomach be distend and he be severely underweight for his age . he have spend month in pain , attend a & E around four time a week . he be discharge without treatment , but Elissa do not leave . she do not accept the shocking assessment from consultant that disabled child just scream . she push back and , with sheer luck , one of Ivan ' s other consultant happen to see they and give instruction for an x - ray . on the final day , they evacuate nearly 2 kg of stool from a 10 kg three - year - old child . Elissa believe that that day save Ivan ' s life . other have not be so lucky . in 2019 , 19 people with learn difficulty die from constipation when under continence care . out of all the death of people with learn difficulty , more than a quarter be also suffer from constipation and bowel issue that would be worthy of note . unsurprisingly , we do not even hold the datum for the wide population on these issue . continence and constipation issue be increase in our young population at a worrying rate , with a strong correlation between constipation , continence issue and neurodiversity . one in four of our child who start school be not yet ready to use a toilet independently , and on average , 2 . 4 hour of learn time be lose every day in support child go to the toilet . toilete issue , even in nursery , cause embarrassment and anxiety , which often lead to functional constipation , damage the bowel and cause lifelong continence issue . get it right from the start be hugely important . child with continence issue be often exclude from school activity and parent be require to take time off work . consequently , ERIC , a charity that specialise in support child with continence issue , whose representative be , coincidentally , here today to celebrate and draw attention to World Continence Week , note that in the 1980 , 83 % of baby be out of nappy by 18 month . new research identify the benefit of child who start potty training early and be out of nappy by 30 month , but the health visit team number be at a disgraceful all - time low . that be a national shame , as be the outdated nice guideline . the message be not get through , and parent simply do not know where to turn for the right support , especially in place like Warwickshire where continence care be simply unavailable . hospital admission for childhood continence issue and constipation have increase by 60 % in over a decade , with 44 , 000 child admit this year alone . the decimation of health visitor number and school nurse , and the demolition of institution such as sure Start , leave carer and family without the infrastructure and support need to train child to toilet independently , and for constipation to be recognise before it become life - threatening . increase data collection be essential , and the NICE guideline need to be heavily review and mandate in healthcare so that we can make saving in crisis team . if we intend to move care to the community , and move from crisis to prevention , continence care have to be a central focus of that mission . I thank my constituency neighbour , hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) , for secure this important debate , and for attempt to remove the stigma and silence that too often surround this key area of healthcare . as have be mention , in the UK over 14 million people experience bladder leakage and more than 6 . 5 million people — around one in 10 — struggle with bowel control . however , those figure be probably not a true reflection of the reality , as many individual choose not to disclose their symptom , often because of embarrassment or in the mistaken belief that incontinence be simply an inevitable part of ageing . I want to talk about how woman suffer from incontinence have be treat in the past , because we need to focus on the availability of proper treatment option for the future . for far too long , vaginal mesh surgery be widely accept as the so - call gold standard to treat stress urinary incontinence in woman . between its introduction in 2008 and when its use be pause in 2018 , it be believe that over 100 , 000 woman in the UK underwent mesh implant procedure . sadly , many of they be not properly advise about the alternative option available to treat stress urinary incontinence , such as the physiotherapist - supervise pelvic floor exercise that my hon . friend mention , nor about the risk associate with use vaginal mesh , and some of they sustain life - change injury . before I become an MP , I work as a solicitor specialise in represent woman who have be affect by vaginal mesh implant and pursue claim for compensation for they base on clinical negligence . I come across woman who be leave in constant pain , unable to work or participate in daily aspect of life . their personal relationship be affect and their life be change forever by a treatment that be suppose to help they . I commend the work of Baroness Cumberlege in her landmark July 2020 report " first do no harm " , which recommend that the Government should immediately issue a full apology on behalf of the healthcare system to the family affect by mesh . she also propose set up a scheme to meet the cost of provide additional care and support to those who experience avoidable harm , and network of specialist centre to provide comprehensive treatment , care and advice for those affect by mesh implant . a subsequent report by Dr Henrietta Hughes , release in February 2024 through the patient safety commissioner , recommend a Government financial and non - financial redress scheme for all those affect by mesh . look ahead , it be critical that current recommend treatment for incontinence be subject to the high clinical scrutiny and that we take step to ensure that no more patient be harm in the pursuit of quick fix or one - size - fit - all solution . at the heart of every treatment plan must be the dignity , safety and informed choice of the patient . treatment must be tailor to the type and severity of each individual ' s condition , not determine by cost effectiveness alone . patient outcome , not just financial metric , must be central to how we define value in care for incontinence patient . we must break the stigma surround the issue . a recent study find that around 40 % of woman have experience urinary incontinence , yet only 17 % of they have seek professional help . poor continence care , as have already be mention , can lead to complication such as infection , social isolation and , in some case , hospital admission . each of those outcome be completely avoidable with early intervention and treatment , which be something that we must aim for in our healthcare system . only by tackle the taboo , invest in well treatment pathway and listen to the voice of those affect can we ensure that people live with incontinence be able to access the support they need , and to do so with the dignity that they deserve . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) on secure this important debate . it be great to have her experience of have work as an NHS physio in the Chamber and she bring a unique perspective to the issue . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) for mention the pelvic mesh scandal . soon after my election as MP for Harlow , a number of woman who be victim of the pelvic mesh scandal come to see I . now , over a dozen woman have approach I about it , and that be just in the Harlow constituency , so that give we an idea about the huge number of woman who have be affect by this terrible scandal . I do not want to focus on the pelvic mesh scandal alone , not least because my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West do it far more justice than I would . whether people be the victim of a national scandal or they have bladder and bowel issue for any of the other reason that my hon . friend the Member for Dudley mention , nobody should be make to feel embarrassed . talk to the woman who be victim of the pelvic mesh scandal , I be strike by the journey they go on . when they initially have bladder and bowel problem , they feel really embarrassed , and it be only when they get to the point where they be in almost constant pain do they feel that they could come forward . what a terrible situation for people to be so embarrassed that they feel that they can not come forward to the GP . we have to end that stigma . I be not go to do so , but as we be in a safe space , I have decide to mention my own experience of suffer from IBS as a young person . it be almost a joke when we go on holiday — " we must make sure we be near a toilet so that Chris can go . " actually , that should not be a stigma ; it be a medical condition and people should understand it , support it and give other the support to deal with it . to show solidarity with those who suffer from bladder and bowel issue , urinary incontinence impact an estimate 14 million in the UK . as many member have say already , if people suffer from such issue , they should not think that they be the only person to be suffer from they . a quick math calculation tell I that that equate to roughly 20 , 000 people per constituency , so a significant number of our constituent will suffer from those issue . the cost to the NHS to deal with these issue be roughly £ 5 billion a year , and I wonder whether that bill would come down if we give confidence to people who suffer from they to come forward soon . I have allude to some of the symptom , but there be a loss of dignity and independence , and a sense of social isolation . my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) mention people who no long go out because they be embarrassed — what a terrible situation for they to be in , and one that be entirely avoidable , if we could help to reduce the embarrassment and stigma that people feel . I join my hon . friend the Member for Dudley in ask the Minister about the collection of datum on those impact by the issue and support the need for a public health campaign . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for mention stoma . a young friend have a stoma and , have speak to she about it , I be sure she would welcome end the stigma associate with that . I want to briefly mention woman ' s health . I recognise the vital contribution make by the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) about the impact on man , but I welcome the fact that Health Ministers in this Government have champion the importance of health equality . I hear a number of story from woman in Harlow who feel that they be not take seriously , and I hope that we can address that and that the Minister will respond to that in she sum up . finally , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dudley for bring this hugely important debate to the House . I agree with sentiment raise by member from across the House that this be the first step in end the stigma . I hope we can work together to end the stigma and embarrassment ; I know that this be just the start . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for bring this debate — I can not quite believe it be the first time that the House have debate this issue . I also fully endorse her suggest recommendation to improve bladder and bowel care , and I hope that the Minister will also endorse they . as we have hear today , incontinence affect people of all age across all community . it be still shroud in stigma and embarrassment , and it disrupt so many people ' s daily activity , such as go to school , go to work , go out for the day , go out for the night and go on holiday . it really need to be tackle at so many level . to echo the remark of my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) , one way in which we need to address this issue be by ensure that we have enough accessible toilet in public place , workplace and school with the necessary facility , include sanitary bin for incontinence product for all user . in my constituency , we have just restore one of the set of toilet in our main public park , Castle Park , after a justified outcry at their closure . adequate public toilet provision be just one response to this complex crisis but , as my hon . friend the Member for Dudley say , other measure be need to tackle it . I again congratulate she on be the first person to bring this issue to public attention in the House , and I look forward to work with she on it . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for secure this incredibly important debate ; it have be absolutely wonderful listening to how it have be conduct . as have be say , this debate be often overlook , and it be occur in World Continence Week . Bladder and bowel control issue be taboo and embarrassing , so I thank my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) for share his experience . he will not be alone , and I be sure there be many in this Chamber who have suffer the same thing , as have our constituent . we need to talk openly about this issue . we can not hide it in silence as it affect so many people . one in three woman in the UK have a urinary incontinence issue , and half of those be likely to suffer from it due to pregnancy , childbirth or hormonal change link to the menopause — another taboo topic . let we go through the stage and where some issue still remain . how be bladder and bowel control issue detect and diagnose ? I refer to my hon . friend the Member for Dudley for her expertise , but the University of Aberdeen have find that invasive bladder pressure test , which be often painful and incredibly uncomfortable , be not necessarily necessary . researcher have find that non - invasive testing , include the thing that my hon . friend have describe , such as pelvic floor exercise , should be make more available to patient . that be just one of the issue . another issue be surgical implant . I refer to my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) for his incredible expertise on this topic , and I thank he for the work he do to help to protect woman . the complication that have affect hundred if not thousand of woman , who be rightly outraged , have be describe as barbaric . we must do more to see that those woman be compensate , but no amount of compensation will ever make up for the year of pain and physical and emotional damage . this issue need to be treat with respect and care , and the treatment option need to be empower , so that people feel they can be empower to prevent these thing from occur . I pay tribute to the Boys Need Bins campaign , which I have speak with — it have be absolutely incredible — because man too suffer from incontinence . we need bin in public space . how can we help people to live their life to the full ? my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) , who be no long in his place , make the point that austerity and cut to local government mean that many public toilet have be close . thankfully , in my area of Gravesham , the local council have increase the number of public toilet , include by open one by the bus hub , so that people know about they and can plan regular break if they be need . we need to ensure that there be space so that people feel empower and confident to leave their home , because we can not have more people who stand alone . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for raise this very important subject . my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) and other mention the importance of great and well provision of public convenience . do my hon . friend agree that we need to encourage caf é s and other organisation in town centre to make well provision for people suffer from these issue ? perhaps some of the campaign that have be allude to can help to make those space available . they should by no mean replace what public convenience should do , but have such place in town centre can assist vulnerable people . I agree . the community toilet scheme in Gravesham have be a good success . however , the issue of course come down to vandalism . council can not see this as an easy way to cut money . it need to be a statutory duty , so I support the bid of my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway to make it a statutory duty to provide public toilet in those space . no one deserve to be lonely or lock in at home , so I hope that this debate be the first step to open the door . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Dudley for bring this issue to the attention of the world . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure to see you back in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for secure this important debate and for outline the issue so well in her opening speech , particularly the importance of break down the taboo surround incontinence and the social isolation that can result from it . I have carefully scribble out the term " incontinence " all the way through my speech and hopefully replace it with " bladder and bowel control issue " — forgive I if I have miss one . I recognise the importance of prevention and specialist treatment . the hon . member for Dudley highlight the benefit to both individual and taxpayer from invest in woman ' s health up front , and I echo that call . there have be lot of excellent contribution , but I thank the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) for raise the scandal of pelvic mesh implant . I thank he for highlight that issue and the need for redress there . Incontinence , or bladder and bowel control issue , can have a hugely detrimental impact on a person ' s wellbee and sense of dignity , as we have hear . despite affect million of people across the UK , it be the subject of stigma , and the need of those with bladder and bowel control issue be not properly consider in many aspect of life . all too often , people suffer from these issue be leave without the right support , whether that be the uncomfortable bladder pressure test that the hon . member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) refer to , or the lack of access to sanitary bin in public and workplace toilet . it have be widely assume for many year that sanitary bin for man be not require in public toilet facility . as we have hear , many million of man be affect by bladder and bowel control issue . the absence of sanitary bin have a wholly unnecessary and damaging impact on their self - esteem , cause embarrassment and stress and , as we have hear , withdrawal from public place and the workplace . the cost be tiny but the benefit for those affect can be significant . there have be progress in this area , thank to the work of campaign such as Boys need Bins by Prostate Cancer UK , but there be much furth to go . that be why it be crucial that we support all individual with the condition by ensure access to service such as public toilet and sanitary bin , as unfortunately that be not the case . under the last government , 19 % of public toilet facility — nearly 600 — lose their local authority maintenance and funding between 2015 and 2021 alone . Liberal Democrat research from 45 council find that the number of public toilet have fall by 14 % from 2018 - 19 to 2023 . many local authority be on the verge of bankruptcy and do not have the spare capacity for these vital service . proper funding of local authority to provide service such as public toilet and sanitary bin could make a truly meaningful difference for people with bladder and bowel control issue , and I hope the whole House will agree that these individual deserve access to basic facility . there be also a clear need for more research into develop well treatment and mitigation for people suffer from bladder and bowel control issue . crucially , these should avoid unnecessary discomfort or invasive procedure . as such , I support what the hon . member for Gravesham have say . the University of Aberdeen have find that woman with ongoing urinary incontinence can avoid invasive bladder pressure test , and that non - invasive assessment work just as well in guide treatment . an emphasis on respect people ' s dignity and reduce discomfort should be at the heart of how we approach the testing , treatment and mitigation of these issue . we also know that these issue — particularly bowel incontinence — can place a significant strain on family carer carry out personal care , who be often under - support and suffer from ill health themselves . many care request go unmet ; last year , the King ' s Fund estimate that nearly a third of request for local government funding result in no support for care at home . this mean that there be many thousand of family struggle with the reality of care for a love one with bladder and bowel control issue , which can include not only feeling of shame and embarrassment — both for they and for their love one — but difficulty with lift and move a family member to clean they , and in access the equipment necessary to cope . that be why deal with the crisis in social care should be a top priority for the Government . when the Secretary of State phone I — and , presumably , the other national party health spokespeople — over the Christmas break to let I know that he be instigate the Casey review and cross - party talk to find a long - term solution to that crisis , I be hugely encourage . since then , the Casey review have be delay , and the cross - party talk have apparently be cancel . I must stress that each party give its view to Baroness Casey be not the same as sit in the same room and agree a long - term funding plan . the review ' s term of reference will not deliver meaningful reform until the next Parliament , and there be a huge risk that , again , nothing will be do by the Government of the day — in this case , despite they have a huge majority to achieve whatever they want . meanwhile , the number of people need care increase every year , and the step change require to transform the sector become large and less politically palatable . as such , I urge the Minister to speak to the Secretary of State and help he to recover the enthusiasm for change that he show over Christmas , because he will have my full support . however , there be simple step that can make a difference now , such as hospital work with family carer ahead of discharge to ensure that they be equip to carry out heighten personal care need . in many place , that support be not deliver , let alone ongoing support and meaningful respite care . wait time for a continence assessment vary across the country — it can take week and week . improve those wait time would ensure that the right care and equipment be available much soon . there be also a chronic shortage of speech and language therapist , who can make a real difference in help people with limited or no speech to more easily communicate when they need the toilet or want to be change or wash . that be particularly essential in case in which those people suffer from bladder and bowel control issue . Incontinence be not properly reflect in how we organise pay social care . for instance , too often the pay for domiciliary carer and the time they be expect to care for any one person do not reflect the fact that someone ' s need for care might vary hugely from day to day . any embarrassment , frustration and discomfort for the person be care for will only be make bad if their carer be rush , stress and overwork , and if spend long at one house could mean that those carer be effectively have to work for free . I also want to highlight the importance of good care in hospital setting . NHS England ' s 2018 " Excellence in Continence Care " guidance state that " pathway of care should be commission that ensure early assessment , effective management of incontinence , along with other bladder and bowel problem such as constipation and urinary tract infection and their impact on social , physical and mental well - be " . I highlight this because my constituent Trevor Collins die on 21 May 2022 as a result of aspiration pneumonia and small bowel ileus , due to a small bowel obstruction cause by constipation . the coroner conclude that neglect at Royal Shrewsbury hospital and a failure to manage Mr Collins ' constipation contribute to his avoidable death . it be essential that healthcare setting follow the nice guideline that be in place , not only to preserve dignity but to prevent serious harm and — in the bad case — even death . liberal Democrats recognise the seriousness of the issue surround all type of incontinence and bladder and bowel control issue , and the critical importance of ensure that people with those condition can live in dignity . the Minister will have hear the call in my speech . I hope she will commit to repair our broken social care system , reinstate cross - party talk and wrap up the Casey review this year , so that we can make the reform that be necessary for long - term stability in the sector and the dignity of all those receive and provide care . I call the Opposition Front Bencher . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker . I welcome you to your place today . it be an honour to speak in this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition , and I pay tribute to the hon . member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for secure it . her speech include the wealth of experience that she bring to the topic , and I especially congratulate she on put this issue so clearly on the agenda today in the House . it be a powerful and wide - range speech that demonstrate the wide range of issue and condition that can lead to incontinence . as the hon . member for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) tell we early , incontinence be a condition that affect around 14 million people across the UK , yet too often it remain misunderstood , under - discuss and — worse still — dismiss . one in three woman experience urinary incontinence , and half a million adult live with bowel incontinence . Incontinence do not discriminate ; whether bladder or bowel , temporary or chronic , or mild or severe , it touch people of all age , background and walk of life . it affect new mother , people recover from surgery , those with neurological condition , the elderly , and even child . however , too many suffer in silence , hold back by stigma , isolation , or the belief that nothing can be do . like other member , I receive some heartbreaking story from my constituent in Farnham , Bordon , Haslemere , Liphook and the surround village . Incontinence be a medical issue , not a personal failing . it be not something to be ashamed of ; it be something to be address through compassion , awareness and proper care . the impact of incontinence can be profound . it affect people ' s confidence , their work , their relationship and their mental health . that be why Continence Week , which we be currently mark , matter . we can not expect people to reach out for help unless we first create a culture where they feel safe and support in do so . we also need to ensure that service be in place to respond when they do seek help . that mean well access to continence nurse , urologist , and physiotherapist , such as the hon . member for Dudley . it mean invest in community support , and in research and innovation , and recognise that continence care be a core part of our health system , not an afterthought . I therefore welcome the Government ' s state ambition to tackle inequality in woman ' s health and to address condition such as incontinence more seriously , but warm word and long - term ambition be not enough when so many continue to struggle . for example , the " Excellence in Continence Care " guidance , first publish in 2018 , be a groundbreaking piece of work , but we now need clear next step , funding and measurable outcome . we must not allow this to drift for another seven year while million suffer in silence . under the previous Conservative Government , we deliver real and lasting progress in this area . in 2022 , we publish England ' s first ever woman ' s health strategy , a genuine turning point shape by listen to more than 100 , 000 woman ' s voice . that strategy commit to trauma - inform care , expand research and , crucially , improve the quality and accessibility of information on the NHS website so that woman could make informed choice about their own health . under our leadership , woman ' s health hub be launch with a clear mandate to exist in every integrate care system , bring service close to community and break down barrier to care . we also ensure the creation of specialist mesh centre across England , deliver multidisciplinary , regionally - base care for woman face the severe consequence of surgical complication . at a recent roundtable I attend with lecturer from Bath University on mesh , primodo and valproate , it be clear that there be still more work to do to support these woman and to learn from the past . I thank the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) and for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) for raise the mesh scandal so passionately early . on incontinence , the Conservative Government back National Institute for Health and Care Research funding for vital research into patient - report outcome measure , empower patient , improve clinical care and ensure that the live experience be properly reflect in decision making . as my hon . friend the Member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) so powerfully elucidate early , man be often forget in this area . on the Opposition Benches , we support any culture and any step that will help man with incontinence . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention , we man be pretty poor at go for diagnosis and treatment , and that need to change . the scale of the issue remain significant . nearly half of woman experience incontinence after childbirth and one in 10 experience faecal incontinence , yet only 17 % seek help . that be often because they be tell subtly or directly that it be simply part of ageing or the price of motherhood . that attitude be unacceptable then and must not be tolerate now . when a third of woman suffer pelvic floor disorder after give birth and still face barrier to care , when man live with incontinence be afraid to leave their home , and when people be force to depend on charity for access to basic hygiene product , it be clear that we have a public health problem that transcend mere inconvenience . will the Department commit to publish an update " Excellence in Continence Care " strategy this year , with clear timeline and accountability ? will we see dedicated funding to expand woman ' s health hub far , so that continence care be a core service , not a bolt - on ? will the Minister also bring forward a plan for well health service for male incontinence ? will NHS England guarantee national consistency of access to continence service and product , end the unacceptable postcode lottery ? will the Government protect and grow funding for continence research to improve treatment for man and woman ? finally , I pay tribute to the organisation , include Bladder and Bowel UK , Prostate Cancer UK and the Urology Foundation , that be break taboo and support patient so tirelessly , but it be not their responsibility alone ; the Government must lead . we conservative make a start , and we now need the current Government to have the same urgency , ambition and delivery to ensure that these hard - win improvement be build upon so that no one be leave to struggle in silence . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker ; you have do an excellent job of make sure that all back Benchers get to contribute to this afternoon ' s important debate . I will have to cut some of my comment , but hopefully I will get to address everybody ' s point . we be have this debate during World Continence Week , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) on secure it . there could not be a more appropriate time to raise awareness of this issue . million of man , woman , young people and child be live with bowel and bladder problem . Incontinence be an issue that robs people of their dignity , as we hear from my hon . friend the Members for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) and for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , and too many suffer in silence . as my hon . friend the Member for Dudley rightly say , this subject be taboo , and I congratulate she on secure her first debate in the Chamber . it be great to have her expertise in this area . all continence problem can be debilitate and life - change . they affect a wide range of care group , and can be a particular concern for old people . in recent year , public discussion and awareness have open up . the advertising of product have become slightly more commonplace , help people to normalise these issue , with which so many people live from day to day . however , we be still a very long way from be a society that support people with incontinence to live without stigma . as these issue affect people of all age , we need to recognise that different approach be require . we hear an excellent contribution from the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) , who raise that point , as do the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) talk about child , and my hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) talk passionately about people with learn disability . there be no one - size - fit - all approach to manage incontinence , but dignity and compassion must be at the heart of the care provide . that be why we be introduce reform to put the patient at the heart of the care pathway and the decision - make process around it . the 10 - year health plan , and its focus on the three shift need to deliver a modern NHS — move from hospital to community , from analogue to digital , and from sickness to prevention — will benefit people at risk of develop incontinence and those already live with it . for example , prevent type 2 diabete or help people into remission will help to reduce the number of people who develop continence problem as they go through life . we have hear many contribution about woman ' s health . NHS England have establish a perinatal pelvic health service , which focus on the prevention , identification and timely treatment of a range of issue antenatally and for at least 12 month after birth . the initiative aim to support woman who experience trauma during childbirth , include condition such as urinary incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse , as note by my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) . in addition to perinatal pelvic health service , continence service be provide more widely via woman ' s health hub , and the core specification outline that incontinence care be a key consideration for local organisation when establish hub . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) for bring his expertise and experience to this debate , and for support so many woman . I know that in the last Parliament many member of this House support woman through the horror of mesh implant , and we be move that issue forward . by move from sickness to prevention , the Government want to shorten the amount of time people spend in ill health and to prevent illness before they happen . although prevention be extremely important , we must also ensure that those live with incontinence receive the good possible care , wherever they live . a key part of that involve the NHS provide high - quality guidance on how to care for people live with incontinence . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence have publish five guideline on the management of urinary and faecal incontinence , which cover the management of urinary incontinence in people with neurological disease , the prevention and management of pelvic floor dysfunction , and pelvic organ prolapse in woman . NICE have also publish advice on a further 14 product for urinary incontinence , and on 12 product for faecal incontinence . my Department have commission NICE to produce late - stage assessment guidance on one - piece close bag for colostomy , and on intermittent urethral catheter for chronic incomplete bladder empty in adult . these late - stage assessment will gather the view of clinical expert and patient to help nice assess and compare the value of product in widespread use across the NHS . in addition to NICE ' s guidance , the NHS must have regard to the " Excellence in Continence Care " guidance , publish in 2018 . NHS England have also produce guidance on safe bowel care for patient at risk of autonomic dysreflexia , a serious medical condition that can affect people with spinal cord injury . the guidance offer resource to support safe bowel care practice , and highlight the importance of implement the excellent incontinence framework . in addition , the Nursing and Midwifery Council have professional standard relate to bladder and bowel nursing care . its code place a strong emphasis on the principle of prioritise people , set out the expectation that registrant should always respond to individual patient need . NHS England be also develop a good practice catheter care pathway across all setting , which be to be complete by the end of this year . the provision of suitable care , with the product necessary to deliver that care , be essential for minimise the physical harm relate to complication and treatment for continence problem , which can lead to admission to hospital for extended length of stay . the NHS will commission pathway of care that ensure early assessment and effective management of incontinence , along with other bladder and bowel problem . these pathway will take account of the impact of urinary tract infection on social , physical and mental wellbeing to reduce expensive pad usage , high - cost complication , and unnecessary hospital and care home admission . as we have hear , our focus on the shift from hospital to community will drive more joint work in neighbourhood between primary care , pharmacy , community healthcare and social care to help people manage incontinence at home . this will help they to access the right self - care and the right professional support so they be not pass from service provider to service provider . it will also reduce their need for emergency hospital admission , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton . my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) make some excellent point about access to facility , and I know he will keep press my hon . friend in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government about that issue . his point be echo by my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) . as I state at the outset , shift care into community setting be one of our three shift , and we will shortly be publish the 10 - year plan . once again , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dudley for bring forward this debate to raise awareness of this important but often overlook issue . I thank the Minister for her response , and I hope she take forward my five recommendation . I also thank all the member who have contribute to this debate ; I hope they continue this conversation in their constituency . the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) speak about man ' s health and smash the stigma . my hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) talk about her work on the all - party parliamentary group for bladder and bowel continence care , and she share information about paediatric care and the lack of provision . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) raise the issue of the cost to the NHS of neglect bladder and bowel condition . my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) talk passionately about the high quality of care need for patient and about the pelvic mesh scandal ; my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) speak powerfully about deal with bladder and bowel condition at an early stage , and about prevention ; my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) mention health inequality and share his personal experience ; and my hon . friend the Members for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) and for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) discuss the availability of public toilet . lastly , I thank everybody again , and I say this once more to those man , woman , child and young people who be listen to the debate : you be not alone , and there be absolutely no shame . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of incontinence . Water Safety Education I call Darren Paffey to move the motion . I beg to move , that this House have consider water safety education . may I begin by welcome you to your place , Mr Deputy Speaker ? I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant I the opportunity to secure this debate and all hon . member who support the application for it . the debate be particularly poignant because this week we mark the Royal Life Saving Society ' s national Drowning Prevention Week . it be a timely moment to speak not just of tragedy , but of our responsibility and of opportunity . every year , over 300 people in this country drown , many of they just metre from safety . in the last three year alone , almost 150 child have lose their life by drown . that be the equivalent of five full classroom of young people , their future snatch away by accident that in so many case be preventable . as an island nation with coastline , river , lake and canal , we be surround by water . it be my privilege to represent the people of Southampton Itchen , a coastal constituency where we live alongside the River Itchen , Weston shore and Ocean Village marina , and the major port alongside Southampton water . the water make our city what it be , but with that come risk . so today I ask this House : be we do enough to prepare our child for the island nation they be grow up in ? the problem be clear and stark . since 2020 , over 1 , 700 people have drown in the UK . disturbingly , during that same period , the number of drown death have double , with more than half these tragedy occur in open water . the national curriculum do currently require some practical training . primary - age child should be able to swim 25 metre , use a range of stroke and demonstrate self - rescue technique . but if that alone be enough , we would not be here today debate this issue under the shadow of so many lost life . the policy on the national curriculum be , of course , welcome , but a policy be only as good as the difference it make — so how effective be it ? a Sport England report estimate that just 74 % of child now leave school able to swim 25 metre . that be down since before the pandemic . the gap be one not just of ability either , but of social class . only 35 % of child from low - income family can swim 25 metre ; compare that to 76 % of child from more affluent background . the result be that child from the most deprived area be twice as likely to drown . I thank my hon . friend for give way and for raise the important issue of teach child to swim . like I , he represent a coastal community . two year ago in Hastings and Rye , the Silverdale primary school pool close . many child and parent miss that facility , and hundred of parent have join I in support the campaign to get the school pool at Silverdale back open . do he agree that we need an increase in school swimming lesson and facility , not their roll back ? I thank my hon . friend for make that salient point . I have no doubt that occurrence like the one we have hear about in her constituency be part of the reason why few child be now able to swim . I wish she every success in her campaign . I thank my constituency neighbour for give way . I want to make a similar point to the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) . a number of school in my constituency have close their pool over the past 20 year . when I grow up in Lewisham , I have access to a school pool . do he agree that we need to work together on national policy to ensure that , although some school pool will still close , our young people can access their local leisure facility at a discount rate , through local government ? I thank my constituency neighbour for make that point . there be a great need to work in partnership . we simply do not have as many pool as we use to , be they local authority - run or within school themselves , but we should be work towards either increase the number where possible or share these vital resource in our community . add to those inequality , there be ethnic inequality . statistically , black child be three time more likely to drown than white child . water safety education can not be leave to chance or to postcode . it be a vital provision for every part of an island nation such as ours and should not depend on the lottery of family income , school funding or private access to lesson . let I tell the House about Joe Abbess . Joe , from shole in Southampton , be a bright , responsible and fit 17 - year - old young man . he be an ambitious trainee chef at the local college and work part - time at Southampton football club . he be the kind of teenager that any parent would be proud of — someone who follow the rule and lead by example . he be a caring and loyal friend , who be well know in his friendship group as the " dad " figure . on 31 May 2023 , Joe and his friend go for a day at Bournemouth beach . they be swim waist high in the sea as Joe , who be a strong swimmer , have do many , many time before . they be between the safety flag , in full view of lifeguard . but in an instant , a rip current turn their fun into tragedy . the water be very suddenly over their head . Joe get into difficulty and be pull far out into the water before disappear beneath it . eleven people be rescue from the water that day because of that rip current , and I commend the emergency service for their action . however , tragically , Joe and 12 - year - old Sunnah Khan do not survive . the coroner report that it be an accident — a devastating and fatal act of nature . however , the coroner also report that rip current can occur anywhere along the UK coastline at any time . how many people , especially child , know that ? how many member in this Chamber would understand , recognise and rightly respond to a rip current ? on sunny day such as those we be enjoy at the moment , many will rightly want to enjoy our river and beach . we must do everything we can to ensure that they can do so safely . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . he be right to bring up the issue of water safety education . sometimes , even strong swimmer can unfortunately get into difficulty . do he feel there be a role for Education Ministers and local council to identify where the problem be , whether they be in the sea surround the United Kingdom or in our lake ? unfortunately , some people have jump into the lake in my constituency without know there be obstruction in the water , to give one example . do the hon . Gentleman feel that there should be great partnership work between the Department and council to identify those problem , so that those who go swimming know exactly what to watch out for ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the very relevant point he make . I will come on to the issue of how we can ensure that education be locally target . each of the situation we face in our constituency will be that little bit different , so it be important that on top of a compulsory expectation there be locally target campaign . we would not let someone drive a car without first pass their theory test , so why do not we comprehensively and consistently teach our child about water safety before they enter the water to have fun ? this be not about take away that fun ; it be about be aware of the hide threat , and therefore have the power to do something about it . I pay tribute to Joe ' s mother , Vanessa Abbess , who I be pleased be present in the Gallery today . ness have become a tireless campaigner , send hundred of letter to local school , work with the Royal Life Saving Society and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution and push for improved signage in Bournemouth . she bring her powerful story to Parliament early this week , when we establish the all - party parliamentary group on water safety education . ness have do all that in the hope that no other family should suffer as the abbess family have . the coroner ' s report be submit to the Secretary of State in October last year . the coroner say : " an ideal opportunity to warn and inform all member of the public would be through educate child of the risk . the lack of provide education to child around these risk through the national classroom curriculum could lead to future death . " the report also state that " urgent action should be take to prevent future death " and that the Department for Education have " the power to take such action . " I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s response to the coroner ' s report , in which she commit to " look carefully at what more can be do to support school to provide water safety education to all pupil , " and to " give full consideration to include a requirement that all pupil should be teach about water safety , include the water safety code . " I urge the Government today to uphold that commitment and to go far . as have become clear , we need to do more than just teach swimming . as hon . member have highlight , access to pool be uneven , lesson vary in quality and duration , and too many child — especially in deprived or minority community — be be leave behind . the Department for Education state : " all pupil should be teach to swim and how to be safe in and around water " . well , yes , they should , but be say they " should " really enough ? at this point , I do not believe so — we can and we must go far . we need to mandate classroom - base water safety education in every school . I pay tribute to many people who have campaign on this before , include Rebecca Ramsay from Chorley , who secure some concession under the previous Government . however , she have recently say that change be not come quickly enough . for her son , Dylan , for Joe , for Sunnah and for too many other , I ask the Government to tackle this issue with the urgency that it deserve . the Royal Life Saving Society have already create high - quality classroom resource that be cost - effective and prove to improve child ' s understanding and confidence around water . it reach everyone — through its Water Smart Schools ' campaign , its Splash Safety at your Pad campaign , and its lifesaving training , accreditation and award — regardless of background or access to swimming pool . these resource offer a lesson for life . let we not leave it to chance ; let we bring those resource into the heart of our curriculum . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . although I recognise that her responsibility lie within education , include in the recommendation be some wide point that I ask she to convey back to Government . first , there be currently no Minister for water safety or drown prevention in the UK despite have Ministers for fire safety , road safety and other preventable public danger , and despite Scotland and Wales have dedicated water safety ministerial role . why do England not have such a role ? the National Water Safety Forum and the World Health Organisation have both urge the UK Government to appoint such Ministers , and I echo that call today . the coroner note that one in four child still do not receive any swimming education , and that number have almost certainly worsen since the pandemic . secondly , I ask the Government to commit to a national swimming and water safety strategy , base on up - to - date evidence about child ' s access across this country to swimming lesson and water safety education . thirdly , my major request be that when the national curriculum be update , follow the current review , and be then teach in every school as mandate in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , will the Government use that opportunity to enshrine water safety as a core , compulsory part of every child ' s education ? the point of the curriculum be not just to pass exam ; it be to prepare our young people for life . if labour ' s mission be to break down barrier to opportunity , here be just about the great opportunity that we can offer they : the opportunity to learn and to live . do the hon . Member agree that there be more to this than just teach child to swim ? Hope Cove Life Boat in my constituency save about 60 people from drown every year , and many of they have be sweep out to sea because of wind and tide . understand the nature of the sea and how dangerous it can be be crucial . it be not just about know how to swim , but about know how to survive at sea . I fully agree with the hon . Lady . as I commend the emergency service that rush to the scene on that fateful day in Bournemouth , I commend the project that she have mention in her constituency . in closing , no child should drown simply because they be not teach how to recognise the danger . it be essential to teach child how to swim , yes , but it be not enough ; we must teach they how to survive in different context . the coroner ' s warning be chill in its clarity : " further death will occur unless action be take . " so today I ask the Government please to act now and make classroom - base water safety education a compulsory part of the national curriculum , not an optional extra , not a postcode lottery , but a guarantee lifesave entitlement for every child in every school , in every constituency , in every part of the country . the time to act be now , before any more life be lose . rise — order . this be a very important subject . there be some 14 member at least who wish to contribute to the debate . allow eight minute each for the wind - up and a couple of minute for the hon . Gentleman who have just speak , I think we be look at a time limit of about five minute each . I will not set a formal time limit at the moment , but if hon . member try to stick to that , we should get everybody in . I take your steer on that , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for secure this debate , and I declare an interest as a new vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on water safety . member will know that there will always be moment in our career that will forever be etch in our memory . we can only hope that they be moment of joy , but sadly I be here to talk about a moment of tragedy . that moment be on 11 December 2022 , which I will always remember . this moment of great tragedy impact my constituent in Meriden and Solihull East . on that day , four young boy be play near Babbs Mill Lake , which have be ice over . they be : Finlay Butler , eight year old ; Samuel Butler , his brother , six year old ; Thomas Stewart , 11 year old ; and Jack Johnson , 10 year old . they be play near the ice , feed duck . as the coroner later report , Jack be with one group , and Finlay , Sam and Thomas be play together with another group . one of the boy decide to go on to the ice . it be Finlay who fall in first , and then Thomas and Jack try to help . sadly , nobody see Samuel fall in . the boy be shout for help , but the witness could not reach they in time . I pay tribute to the emergency service , who reach the location within 11 minute . they ignore their own safety advice , take off their body armour and take out their baton , and they use their fist to try to break through the ice . one officer who jump in be neck - deep in the water and have to be treat for cold water shock . as the coroner and the police report , any moment long and we could have have another tragedy on our hand . the water be too deep , and sadly none of the boy survive . what strike I be the suddenness of this tragedy . that be why I be talk about it today . I suppose all tragedy be sudden , but this be 11 December , two week before Christmas . I be not sure any of we can fathom what the parent of the two brother or the family of the other go through , and I do not know whether they will ever be able to come to term with it . what happen be particularly important to my community in north Solihull , because in Kingshurst , Fordbridge and Smith ' s Wood , which use to be in my constituency , the community come together . I remember go to the vigil and tribute in the week after . these boy be massively central to their school community and the wide community , and I could see how much pain and hurt they be go through . everyone come together , and the collective grief , pain and sadness have stay with I . I be remind of it every year , because sadly every Christmas I still hear of child play on the lake when it be iced over . as the coroner report , the temperature that day be around 5 ° c . I remember where I be , and it feel a lot colder . the water be a lot cold than 5 ° c . the hon . member for Southampton Itchen talk about education be key , and I agree with all the request he make . I want to put on record that I will work very closely with he on this , because I believe it to be a cross - party issue — it be certainly not a partisan issue . cold water shock be something that I know very little about . the coroner say that within minute the boy would have suffer fatal brain damage , which be what happen . when the tragedy happen , I remember come to the House have do lot of medium interview . I remember after one interview , when the story break that one of the child have just perish , member across the House come to pay tribute to the community in north Solihull . that include the Prime Minister , who within minute of the story breaking have call I to find out whether there be anything that could be do . he also pay tribute to the community at Prime Minister ' s question . for I this be a really personal debate , because I see the pain when people in Solihull talk about this incident . there be not anyone in the midland , or across the country , who when I talk to they about the four child do not remember what happen . when I be talk to member about why I would be speak today and about those four lad who pass away in Solihull , it be clear that everyone remember what happen . ultimately , this issue come down to education . I write to Sir Nick Gibb in the previous Government and speak to he about try to update the curriculum , but sadly we be not able to get that do . I write to the Education Secretary a few month ago and do not get a response , so I hope the Minister can give I some indication of action in this area — or perhaps the hon . member for Southampton Itchen when he wind up can do so . this issue be so important , and I know that the Minister agree . I be really keen to ensure that we get the curriculum change , so on behalf of my family in north Solihull and the family of Finlay , Sam , Jack and Thomas , will the Minister please work to ensure that we avoid these tragedy in future ? I welcome you to your place , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be very grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for secure this debate . water safety education be particularly important for my constituency of Oxford East , for several reason . we have many body of water in Oxford , which can be very cold , as in many other constituency , because of hide depth ; we also have , in many case , poor access for rescue vehicle ; and many of those body of water contain submerge obstacle . we also have in Oxford a young population that be exuberant and fun - loving . of course that be a wonderful thing , but celebration in my city too often turn to tragedy , as we see most recently with promising student Wesley Akum - Ojong . I regrettably can not mention every tragic case from Oxford , but I mention he because I understand that he have aspire to become Britain ' s young Prime Minister , and I have to say that , judge by his many achievement , I do not think it would have be long before he would have be elbow we out of the way . he be an incredible young man . I pay tribute to he , and to his friend and family , and to all those who have lose love one in my city from drown . Oxford be also highly prone to flooding , and it be often difficult for people to assess how deep floodwater be and where obstacle be submerge . well education about the potential danger of the water be imperative . it need to be part of a broad suite of initiative , from effective signage to access to supervised swimming , like Oxford city council ' s free swimming programme for under - 16s , and — where required and feasible — physical restriction . there be in my city — I be sure this apply in other constituency represent here — a vigorous debate over the right of wild swimmer to access waterway that have be deem to be unsafe . I understand wild swimmer ' contention that they will often be swim together , that they do not tend to dive into the water , and that they be experience swimmer ; but they be , of course , still at risk , include from effluent discharge and algal bloom . in any case , I would urge anyone consider wild swimming to consult the Environment Agency ' s information on water quality , and above all , to educate themselves about the danger of the water , even if they think they be experience . because no matter how experienced a swimmer be , if they be in unsupervised waterway with the water temperature below 16 ° they could experience cold water shock , or the other hazard I mention . the chair of the National Water Safety Forum have say that " drown can occur anywhere and to anyone " . so far , in Oxford , we have see particular effort from the Oxfordshire fire and rescue service to educate people about the danger of the water . that have be really positive , along with the water safety code , and simplify message such as , " call , tell , throw " and " float to live " . my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen speak passionately about ensure that our school be always reinforce that message . as he say , water safety and swimming be mandatory within PE in primary school , but that be subject to problem of access and disparity relate to social class and ethnicity . Becky Francis ' s curriculum and assessment review for the Government have show that it be difficult for many school to prioritise PE because of the accumulate challenge that they face ; there be a particular issue at key stage 4 . I hope that , as she work towards the full review , she can look at the specific issue of water safety in more detail . I also hope that the Government will consider it carefully — I know that the Minister would want to be do that — as they be review the relationship , sex and health education draft statutory guidance . I know that organisation in Oxford be really keen about that , so that they can have a join - up approach with local school , with well signage information and so on . finally , it be really important , in undertake this work , that wherever possible young people themselves be include in the conversation , because they know what will be most effective , a lot of the time , with their peer . I believe that one of the most effective measure in my city be a striking memorial paint to Hussain Mohammed , a 15 - year - old who die after jump from Donnington bridge in 2012 . very sadly , he be not the only person to die from that cause . thirteen year later , that bridge still feature the touch mural that remind people of Hussain and hopefully recall the need to stay water - safe . I thank the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for secure this important debate today . as we have hear , every year in the UK , more than 200 life be lose to accidental drowning . in fact , it claim more life each year in the UK than house fire or cycling accident . that must be a wake - up call . we have an opportunity and a responsibility in this House today to bring those number down . the problem be as clear as it be urgent : too many people grow up without be teach how to stay safe around water . swimming must be a core life skill , as we have hear , and yet , accord to the Royal Life Saving Society UK , one in three child leave primary school unable to swim properly . that statistic should concern we all . of course , child from the most disadvantaged background be most likely to miss out . in other word , those at great risk be the least protect . this be not just about learn to swim , although that be essential ; it be about know what to do when thing go wrong — when someone panic , when cold water shock set in and when every second count . every summer , every bank holiday and every heatwave , like this week , the risk increase . river , lake , canal and coastline become magnet for young people and far too often , life be lose . my constituency of Esher and Walton have see three tragic drown death in the past four year . two of they occur during the fierce heat of the summer of 2022 — a heartbreaking testament to the risk that rise with each heatwave . these be tragedy with unimaginable pain for the family and profound effect for school , emergency service and the wide community . as a river - base constituency , we owe it to our resident , visitor and local business to prioritise water safety . the risk be all around we , particularly this week . the Thames thread through our town , the River Mole run through our park , and reservoir sit at the heart of our community . address the root cause be so important . one of my constituent , Nell Hickman , take up the cause by lead a local water safety campaign along a stretch of the Thames between Thames Ditton and Hampton Court , which I have hear refer to by school child as the Barbados of south - west London . determined to prevent further tragedy , Nell partner with the RNLI , Elmbridge borough council and other stakeholder . together , they instal safety signage and emergency throwline . they also expand water safety training , advise swimmer to stay parallel to the riverbank instead of swim across the River Thames . that be a powerful example of community - lead action , back by the right support , save life . there be more that we can do . the RNLI play a vital role in my constituency and I pay tribute to its tireless work . some school in Esher and Walton be already lead the way by teach key life skill through personal , social , health and economic education and citizenship . however , we must do more to ensure that water safety be embed in our child ' s education , especially in area such as mine , with river and open water . I be greatly pleased that this debate be take place . in my constituency and within Somerset and North Somerset — the whole of Somerset — there be 8 , 463 mile of river , rean and stream which , from Somerset , would take we as far as Singapore . that level of water coverage present a danger not only for those who swim and need to be teach to swim , but for young people , who should understand very clearly what to do should the vehicle in which they be travel go into water . there be specific rule around how to save ourselves if the car or vehicle we be in go into water . do my hon . friend have a comment about that ? I thank my hon . friend for bring attention to vehicle go into the water . in my constituency , the Thames provide our border with London , so it stretch along the entire constituency , and of course car could go into the river . in area like ours where river and open water be a daily part of life , it be essential that our child be teach how to be safe in the water . would the Minister consider ensure that water safety be integrate into the secondary school curriculum , so that every young person leave school equip with these essential skill for their safety ? it be now — in a heatwave when gcse and a level have just finish — that our child be most at risk . I know that because this week I sense that my 16 - year - old after finish his gcse be go to do just that , and it take all my parental bribery , frankly , to ensure that he do not . organisation like the Royal Life Saving Society , alongside the RNLI , provide expert guidance , from recognise dangerous current and raise awareness of cold water shock to assist people in distress in the river . by work with those partner , we can build a generation that be not only confident in the water , but capable of save life . these be not just water safety tool ; they be universal lifesaving skill that can make all the difference in emergency of all kind . country like Australia rightly treat water safety as a national priority . child grow up surround by water there , so they be teach how to navigate it , just as our child be teach to wear seatbelt and how to cross the road . the UK , an island nation flow with river , should be no different . let we work towards a future where few family face heartbreak and finally make water safety a priority . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) and the Backbench Business Committee for secure this important debate . I also thank Michael Wardle , who be a Royal Life Saving Society UK lifeguard , and his team at the helly Hansen watersport centre in Salford for their dedication to save life in Salford . I have the pleasure of meet they , and their passion for educate about water safety be inspiring . in Salford Quays , countless life have tragically be lose as young people head to the water , unaware of the danger within . it be a ship canal , so it be incredibly deep and litter with underwater obstacle . the area be now monitor by CCTV camera and joint council and police patrol in hot weather . under - 18 catch jump from bridge or illegally swimming will receive a police warning , and adult will be issue with a fix penalty notice . but that still do not stop people crowd to the quay on day like today , look to cool off or have fun with their friend . the sad thing be there be supervise open swimming area in the quay — area that can offer a safe swimming environment , but they be only open at limited time and be not free , which bar too many young people from they . there be one simple thing that the Government could do to ensure that my constituent be safe , and that would be to provide just a little funding to open up these supervise lifeguarde swim area to the public for free and for long during the summer month . that way no young person be tempt to risk their life in dangerous area when they can have full access to a supervised one . secondly , as we have hear , water safety education be critical . while it be a statutory requirement that child be able to swim 25 metre by the time they reach year 7 , evidence sadly suggest that the number of child receive swimming lesson be decline . in 2024 , the Royal Life Saving Society estimate that over 140 , 000 child leave primary school without these vital lifesaving skill . there be also inequality in those statistic . staggeringly , Sport England find that 50 . 4 % of child from low - income family could swim 25 metre in year 7 , compare with 85 . 8 % of high - income family . barrier to the statutory provision include limited pool access , transportation cost , logistic , staff shortage and cultural and religious barrier . it be critical that the Government secure water safety education on the national curriculum for England as a statutory requirement , but also that they ensure school be provide with dedicated ringfenced budget so they can meet that requirement . thirdly , I would like to draw attention to a quite staggering fact . I meet my local fire service in Salford recently and learn of the amazing work its dedicated firefighter do to save life and keep we safe . I meet the water response team , which I think — naively , like much of the general public — be just part of its service . it be not . they do it because they be good people , not because they be fund to or require to . while there be a public perception that the fire and rescue service be responsible for respond to water rescue incident and engage in water safety education and prevention , there be no statutory duty on it in England to do so . however , statutory duty do exist in Wales . the fire and rescue service respond to 999 call and inland water rescue incident use its exist general power and resource . it scrimp and save from exist budget to try to resource the lifesave equipment it need , rather than that be allocate . as a result , the resource and the coverage be patchy , and firefighter often train in water safety on their own time . I call on the Government to urgently adopt the National Fire Chiefs Council recommendation on this issue : to consult on establish a statutory responsibility in England for inland water rescue response and prevention ; to provide capital alongside continuous funding to support any new statutory duty introduce ; to establish a clear lead Department with accountability for water safety prevention , mirror at local authority level ; and to update the reporting requirement of the incident recording system to more accurately record water - relate death and injury . to conclude , no parent should ever receive that phone call and no person should ever needlessly lose their life when the ask on Government be so simple . I hope the Government will do all they can to urgently implement the measure that I and other have outline . it be good to see you in the Chair , Sir Roger . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) on secure the debate — he genuinely be an hon . friend . we serve together on Southampton city council , we have both be education lead member , and now we be constituency neighbour . I know that he consistently stand up for the great people of the great city of Southampton , and in particular the constituent he have mention today . I pay tribute to Joe ' s mum for the work she have already do and the work she will do in future to make sure we lose few people on our waterway across the country . although the hon . member for Southampton Itchen and I share Southampton Water , which be the busy part of the waterway around and into Southampton , I also have in my constituency the entirety of the River Hamble , which come off Southampton Water . the River Hamble be internationally know as one of the most difficult river to navigate for our sailing and boat community . it be know as an international sailing hub but also as one of the most difficult tidal waterway to navigate across the world . we see that , unfortunately , in 2020 , early in my career here as the Member of Parliament for Eastleigh , which be in the same area . Emily Lewis , who be on a fast boat in the Solent , be tragically kill after be catapult out of it when it hit Netley buoy . she be travel at 44 mph , and two charge be eventually make of manslaughter and failure to ensure safe navigation against the person who charter the boat . the hon . member for Southampton Itchen be absolutely right that we need to have water safety education . I put it to the House and the Minister that we also need to have proper education for not only those who enter the water through our seaside , lake and river , but also people who use the water on a daily basis . as I say , we have the whole of the River Hamble in the constituency of Hamble Valley , and a vast array of people use our river and Southampton Water — sailor , motorboater , kayaker , paddleboarder and rower . many people use the river , as they should be able to , because that be intrinsic to the identity of those who grow up and live in my constituency . give the hot weather this weekend , I intend to go out on the hamble on Saturday to kayak , but I be aware of the intrinsic danger of a river such as the hamble . it be vital , as the hon . member for Southampton Itchen say , that we educate from a very early age . I also want to outline and make colleague aware of the role of our independent lifeboat . hamble lifeboat in my constituency have already be call out over 60 time this year . we must raise awareness of these service , because they play a very important educational role for many people in our constituency . I be delighted to be a found member of the National Independent Lifeboat Association , which look after our independent lifeboat , alongside our former colleague Anthony Mangnall , who be the Member for Totnes . I encourage all member who represent area with independent lifeboat to get in touch with NILA and to raise awareness of water safety . the hon . member for Southampton Itchen highlight the key variation in access to swimming pool and water education . as I indicate in my intervention , we will both be aware , from our time lead the education system in Southampton , of the number of school there that have have closure . this be not a political point at all , because we have both be in control of the Administration , and we have have national government of different colour , but he will be aware of a reduction in funding for our education system from local authority , whereby many school have have to close their pool . partnership that allow kid to be take to local leisure centre for school lesson have be reduce as well . I remember be a young person — I use to be young once — grow up in Lewisham . the council school bus would come and take I to Lewisham swimming bath every week for a two - hour swimming lesson . that have diminish , and it be vital that we work on a cross - party basis to get swimming lesson and water education deliver to people across the UK . as I say , this be not just about young people . a brief story : a couple of summer ago , I be out on my kayak when I see an old gentleman cling to a kayak in very cold water . he have lose his energy and would have die that day , have I and my friend Jerry not go past and rescue he . he be not wear a life preserver , he be very cold , and he be run out of energy , cling to his kayak . we manage to take he out of the water and save he , and get he medical attention . frustratingly , such thing still happen , which be why any measure take forward by the Minister need to be attentive to not only young people but all user of the river and waterway across the UK . I congratulate the hon . member for Southampton Itchen and all member who will speak in today ' s debate . he have my commitment , alongside that of my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) and , I be sure , the shadow Minister , that this be a cross - party issue that we all need to work on . I wish the hon . member well in his endeavour . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for secure the debate , and for all the extremely important work that he be do on this issue . I extend my compliment to his constituent in the Gallery , who we hear at the APPG early in the week . give the circumstance , her campaign be extremely brave , and her word be very inspiring , so I want to put my tribute to she on the record too . I come to this debate because of a situation that occur within my constituency of West Ham and Beckton very recently , which receive quite a lot of press publicity . I do not intend to go into the detail — it be still a very fresh event — but I lose an 11 - year - old constituent in the River Thames early in the spring . that be a huge trauma for her family , and I put on the record — I know the whole House will share in this — my deep condolence to they . I also extend my congratulation and thank to the emergency service , search and rescue , and actually local people who step in to try to help on that occasion , which obviously have a huge impact on the community too . this debate be very pertinent for my constituency because I be surround by water in east London : I have the rode to the east , the River Lea to the west and , significantly , the River Thames border the south of my constituency . I also have huge amount of dockland , include the royal dock , which be a very large open space of water , build at a time when we have a lot of shipping . with that come a lot of open wharf and causeway , many of which be still in use , which be another aspect of water safety . we have reserve industrial space , and education be need on that . People often forget that lot of the Thames be still a work river . we have a lot of industry . at my end , Tate & Lyle and Tarmac use large shipping , in addition to all the other boat that go up and down the river . education be therefore hugely important for where I be , include education on safety and a wide range of thing . we need to take advantage of the huge opportunity to work with school , youth club , community group and young people ' s group to try to get that education across . I be lucky to have active sea scout and sea cadet in my area ; those group touch only a small number of people , but there be people out there who can deliver such education . I be of an age that I can remember public information film make by the Central Office of Information . that disappear in 2012 and we do not have the same sort of programming — I see some smile around the Chamber from member of a similar age who remember such thing . I be teach to cross the road by Kevin Keegan ; I remember it be Jimmy who throw his frisbee into the pylon , so I do not do that ; and it be the Spirit of Dark and Lonely Water who warn we about still pool . the fact that I can remember all that 40 year down the line — if hon . member be interested , many such film be now online and often see as nostalgia — show that that type of campaign work because it stick in the mind . we seem to lack a national campaign on such issue . ironically , those campaign happen in a pre - digital age , but they lend themselves to the age we now live in , with social medium , TikTok and all the rest of it . we could produce information to share with school and youth group , so that they could take advantage of such a campaign . I hope that we get back to be able to produce such campaign that could be widely share , so that child will remember and tell their child far down the line . a second issue that I would like to touch on , which be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) but be outside the scope of the Minister for Education , be about statutory duty . at the APPG meeting this week , we be tell by a fire chief that there be a lack of statutory duty , which seem like a gap in our service . there have be a number of incident on waterway in my constituency , both accident and , sadly , suicide attempt , where the fire brigade attend . the London Fire Brigade be always absolutely magnificent — it turn out and do an exceptional job . however , the fact that there be no statutory duty seem to be a gap to I , so that be an important change that need to be make . the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) talk about the weather that be currently forecast . the marine police unit of the Metropolitan Police Service , which receive over 2 , 000 call a year on water safety , highlight that the risk grow in the summer and in hot weather . certainly , near I , at the Royal Victoria Docks , we have child jump in all the time , so this be a pertinent debate now , and as we move into the summer , with the hot weather , the issue be press . I will finish with a couple of ask for the Front Bench . can we look at how we can put in place a comprehensive education programme , work with school but also on a national level , perhaps take advantage of modern technology ? can we also look at the need for a statutory duty for fire and rescue service , so that it be enshrine in law , as perhaps people expect it be not , but it be not at the moment ? by do that , hopefully we can take a couple of step towards ensure that no family have to go through the kind of incident and heartbreak that my constituent see early this spring . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for secure this important debate . Shrewsbury be famous for be loop by the beautiful River Severn . it be a source of beauty , nature , tourism and livelihood for my town , but also , unfortunately , the scene of 14 death in the last 10 year . overwhelmingly , those death occur at the weekend or in the evening , by man , sometimes after a night out or because of mental ill health , and sometimes because of those two factor combine . in April 2022 there be two river death in quick succession : Toby Jones and Nathan Fleetwood . those death bring the town together , to say that we have have too many such death and that we need to look at the issue as a community to see what could be do . our local stakeholder and council come together and launch a water safety campaign . they set up the new Water Safety Action Group , fund by West Mercia Police . we set up safe route signage along the river ; get fund for increase solar lighting and rescue throw line ; set up free online water safety course for school , college and club ; and we have a poster campaign in pub and club . my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) will be delighted to hear that we create video , to be broadcast in pub and put out on social medium , that tell the story of what could go wrong . we also educate bar staff about not overselle alcohol , when too much be too much , and we train they in mental health response , work with our street pastor . we have free training from the RNLI on waterside response scheme , help our local business . we get fund for CCTV , and we set up the Shrewsbury ranger scheme and taxi marshal to help people to get home safely late in the evening . I be really proud of my town — of how we take this issue on and say , " we don ' t want this to happen in Shrewsbury . " I be proud to the House that the number of death have reduce slightly . I pay tribute to our local stakeholder , who respond so quickly and thoroughly to what we consider to be an emergency , and support our local community . I thank Shropshire council , Shrewsbury town council , our business improvement district , West Mercia police for its funding and support , our street pastor , the fire and rescue service and our local resident ' " make our river Safer " Facebook group . together , as community , we can help to move the dial . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for lead this debate on an incredibly important issue — one that be feel by myself and many constituent . it be only a few week ago , at the end of May , that two child enter the River Thames in Gravesend . one child be thankfully rescue , but one young girl tragically lose her life . it be an incredibly heartbreaking accident , and I pass on my deep condolence to her family , her friend and the community . I can not imagine the pain of their loss — similarly to so many member who have share their story today . I place on record my gratitude to those who work so hard in the effort to save that young girl ' s life and have support our community through this difficult time , include the coastguard , the RNLI , the Port of London Authority , Kent police , the emergency service and the passerby who , on see that the young girl be in trouble , jump in to try to save she ; they do indeed save the little boy at that time . the work that these organisation do be commendable and invaluable to the resident of Gravesham , who be on the River Thames . the River Thames often look calm and tranquil on its surface , but underneath the rip and current be incredibly dangerous . we be lucky to have the RNLI station and the Port of London Authority in Gravesend , which chaperone the hugely busy motorway of boat up and down our city . the RNLI be an excellent charity , and I thank it for its hugely important educational work ; its volunteer be incredible . I can not fail to mention , as other member have mention , those choose to use bridge to take their life ; we must do all that we can to stop those who feel that that be the only option . I thank the RNLI , the Port of London Authority and even the Thames Clipper for save some of those people and hopefully give they another chance at life . learn to swim from a young age be incredibly important , and it be great that it be on the national curriculum , but I hear and stand with my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen when he say that we can do more in this space . for those swimming in the Thames — certainly near Gravesend — that will not be enough , so those public awareness campaign , especially through social medium , will be crucial . we must avoid future tragedy and death , so I urge the Government to work closely with local authority , emergency service and other organisation to identify these black spot along our river and coastline and see where further safety measure be need . our community in Gravesham have be shake by this recent tragedy , and we owe it to all those who have lose their life in similar circumstance to take every possible step to prevent such accident in the future . once again , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen for bring this incredibly important issue to the House today . I be proud to stand in support of great awareness , investment and collaboration to improve water safety across the country . rise — order . can I suggest that we have a four - minute time limit to get everybody in ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for secure today ' s debate , particularly during Drowning Prevention Week . I will speak of not just the risk of wild and open - water swimming , but the enormous benefit that it can offer when do safely and responsibly . specifically , I would like to address concern about the lake at the former Shoal Hill quarry — which be in the neighbouring constituency of Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge — and about Chasewater reservoir . although that reservoir fall within the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) , it be a much - love site that be frequently use by many of my constituent , particularly those in my home village of Norton Canes . they feel a very strong sense of ownership over what be , for many year before a rebrand , know as the Norton pool . my hon . friend have hope to be here today , but due to constituency commitment , he have not be able to join we for this debate . however , he share the concern I will raise about Chasewater in his constituency . as the evening grow long and the day get warm , place such as Shoal Hill quarry and Chasewater become popular destination for family seek to cool off . appeal though it may be , the risk of swim in dangerous body of water can strike anyone . they include cold water shock , current that drag people down due to the depth of the water , rip current that drag people away from the shore , a lack of safe exit from the water , cut cause by hidden object underwater , a lack of preparation or way to call for help , and aftershock . be safe and well prepared before swimming be crucial . accord to the National Water Safety Forum , an average of 19 people a year drown when swim in open water , and I know that every member in the Chamber today would want to make sure that none of our constituent become one of those 19 . tragically , six year ago , a 21 - year - old man drown in Chasewater while save a nine - year - old girl from the water . his bravery should not be forget , nor should the circumstance that lead to such a loss . from memory , I believe that this incident involve an inflatable like the one use in swimming pool , which — in deep water and with high wind — be pull some 30 to 40 metre out into the reservoir . however , later that summer and in summer since , we have again see young child on inflatable in Chasewater . I know I might come across as be a killjoy , but this be genuinely a threat to life , especially for child . as such , I take this opportunity to urge my constituent not to swim in Chasewater — unless it be with an open water swimming group , which I will come to later . at Shoal Hill quarry near Cannock , too , it be simply not safe to enter the water . risk lie hide beneath the surface , include sharp debris , submerge machinery and toxic contaminant . weed bed and rubbish create an unforeseen web of entanglement , while sheer sudden drop - off along the quarry floor can turn a step into a deadly fall . but this be not about discourage people from enjoy the outdoors — quite the opposite . when open water swimming be do properly , it can be incredibly rewarding . People can stay safe while open water swimming by check the weather , be aware of where to exit the water , make sure they have kit prepare , wear a brightly coloured swimming cap , and know their gear . Chasewater ' s open water swimming group offer one - to - one coaching , compulsory tow float , and the National Open Water Coaching Association ' s safety system . that wristband system allow immediate access to emergency detail . with safety and training of this kind available , people can enjoy open water swimming and trust that they will be safe while do so . I also pay tribute to all the other business and group that provide safe activity on Chasewater , include Chasewater Activity Centre , Chase Watersports Centre , Pier 52 Watersports and the Chase Sailing Club . with the beautiful hot weather upon we , it be vital that we continue to talk about way to make wild water swim as safe as possible . by increase awareness and educate people in high - risk area , we can start to bring down the number of these tragedy . no one should lose their life from a moment of fun , and no family should suffer the grief of a death that could have be prevent . this be not about stop people enjoy the outdoors , whether at Chasewater , Shoal Hill quarry or anywhere else across the United Kingdom ; it be about give they the information and tool they need to do so safely and confidently . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for secure this important debate . it be a timely debate , particularly with the hot weather we be see and the number of people who will be go into the water this weekend . I be proud to represent the beautiful constituency of Bangor Aberconwy . it be coastal , scenic , and home to some of the most stunning beach , lake , river and waterfall . these area be rightly cherish by resident and visitor alike , but sadly people in my constituency know all too well the pain and devastation that be cause when something go wrong . I do not think there will be a single person across my whole constituency whose life have not be touch at some point by a tragedy involve drowning . those accident and fatality be obviously devastating , not just for the individual , family and community affect , but for the emergency service and organisation — include the coastguard , RNLI and mountain rescue team — that be task with respond . so much of that painstaking work of search and rescue be carry out by volunteer who give up their time for free , and I want to put on record my thank to they as well as my deep condolence to everyone who have be affect by these incident . this be not just physical work ; it be emotional work , never more so than when the incident involve young people and child . one specific issue that have be bring to my attention be that of destination be promote on social medium platform , such as TikTok and Instagram . the emergency service be respond to big spike in visitor come to our area to see these seclude lake , amazing beach and tuck - away viewpoint , which be be promote as hide gem — but people be unaware of the danger . I understand that the Education Minister respond today be not necessarily involve directly in online safety , but it would be wonderful if the Government could address that issue . perhaps the Minister could discuss with colleague how social media platform could be encourage to act . other member have talk about the potential for social medium campaign , which can be influential , especially when we be talk to young people . I would like the social medium platform to be more aware of their responsibility in highlight water safety education and the danger , and perhaps to work with content creator . we definitely want people to come and visit north Wales and to enjoy our beach , lake and river . I be in no way blame anyone who ever call for help — I have two teenage child , and they will be out enjoy the water this weekend , as will many other ; I just want to make sure we have a cross - societal and cross - governmental approach to water safety education . if the Minister could raise that with colleague within Government , I would be grateful , because we should all be pay attention to this issue online , as well as in the real world . Sam Haycock be a name that most member in the Chamber will not have hear before today , but it be my job to make sure that that 16 - year - old ' s legacy do not end four year ago , when he be swim in a South Yorkshire reservoir with his friend . I want Sam ' s name imprint on everyone ' s brain and etch in everyone ' s heart today — not only in the name of Sam , but for his mum and for his dad , Simon , who come to Parliament yesterday and talk with I about my private Member ' s Bill on water safety . I meet Sam ' s dad for the first time a couple of summer ago ; that day at Thorne fire station , when many firefighter and service people be show how to rescue someone safely from water , he hand I a picture of Sam . Sam ' s dad do that work week in , week out , tirelessly . yesterday I could see the anguish in his eye still , because that call that he get will never go away . it make such a difference to he to be able to go out and educate child and their family about swim safely , the danger and risk , and what learn about those danger can mean for protect life in the future . unfortunately , if we look back to 2023 , there be another 236 or so Sams out there . that be 236 parent , friend or colleague who get that same horrible knock at the door or that awful phone call . some 50 % of drowning happen in the month of June , July and August — so half of all drowning this year will happen in the next three month . of course , it be hot , and this year in particular have be super - hot in the lead - up to summer . that prevail weather be only a big risk in term of the potential number that could join those other Sams . some 5 . 8 million child finish their gcse today or tomorrow , as the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) say . Sam die on the day that he finish his gcse and go swim with his friend to celebrate . across the UK , we have some of the most beautiful watercourse . we have 40 , 000 lake , 43 , 000 mile of river . we have 22 major river , 2 , 000 reservoir , 273 major reservoir and 600 designate beach . those offer opportunity for any child to go and swim — just to try it , perhaps for the first time . of course , there be a balance here ; water can be good . it be good for physical health , and it be great for mental health . it be a great source of tourism , sport and leisure in our community . some 7 . 5 million people take part or have take part in open water swimming . one of those people be Lindsy James , who live in and work across my community . she be a world champion duathlete , who have only recently learn to swim as she have a fear of water ; she have show how swimming can build resilience and confidence . give the amount of water that we have , the most important thing be education , because we can not protect all the different site that I have talk about . that be why I be so proud that my Water Safety Bill have a reception this week . the Bill would make compulsory water safety education part of this Government ' s legal duty , which would save life — that be the reason we be here today . our job be to enrich life , to save life and to protect life . Sam Haycock ' s story do not need to end on that day four year ago ; there need to be a legacy . he may not go on to fulfil all the dream he have on the day he finish his gcse , but his legacy can and will allow other to fulfil their dream . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for secure this important debate . I declare an interest : early this month , I host an event by Future Lidos , a peer network across the UK and Ireland that be work together to bring outdoor swimming pool to more people in our community . I be also chair of a local group call Splash , which be work to restore and reopen the outdoor tidal pool in the town of Saltcoats in my constituency . Lidos and outdoor pool provide a safe space and opportunity for people to learn to swim outdoors , and tidal pool get people use to swim in cold water . I fully support the campaign to open more lido throughout the UK , although we must make they affordable so that people can access they . sadly , Scotland have the high accidental drowning rate of all the UK nation — it be about three time the rate in England . the risk tend to increase with age , peak in the 60 to 69 age group . surprisingly , people who plan to go into the water be not always at the high risk . it have be show that accident can occur among walker and runner , who can slip into the water and drown , which be why it be vital that everyone learn to swim . in Scotland , there be no statutory requirement to provide swimming lesson , and provision be determine on a council - by - council basis . learn to swim be not a required part of the curriculum , unlike in Northern Ireland , where swimming be part of the minimum content , or in England , as we hear early . in Scotland , there be a " learn to swim " framework , but a significant number of child still leave primary school without learn to swim , and this must be urgently address by the SNP Scottish Government . as a young girl , I learn to swim in the local outdoor tidal pool at the age of four , thank to my mum , who be a swimming teacher , and swimming have always be important to I . swimming and water safety skill be vital , and we need to ensure that all child have the opportunity to learn to swim , as well as ensure that these skill be reinforce throughout people ' s live in order to protect old people too . it be really important that people be encourage to learn to swim at all age , not just from a safety perspective but for the many benefit that swimming offer for health and wellbeing — both physical and mental . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for lead today ' s debate . as many member of this House will know , I be someone who spend many hour out and about on Britain ' s river and lake as a keen whitewater kayaker . regardless of whether it be on move water , along the coastline or in our lake , spend time on and in our water be a tremendous joy , but it come with risk . regrettably , we have see a number of tragedy in and around my constituency over the year . in 2014 , Donna Greenall from Horwich in my constituency be sadly find drown in Rivington reservoir . more recently , in April last year , 17 - year - old Joseph Hold die after get into difficulty in the River Croal in Bolton , have lose control of his canoe . we must learn from these incident to prevent similar tragedy from happen again . with that in mind , I will make the case for further investment in education to unlock the immense potential of safely be in , on or near water . after all , we owe it to Donna , Joseph and everyone who have lose their life to drown , or who have lose love one , to continue make improvement to water safety awareness . drown remain one of the lead cause of accidental death , particularly among our young people , yet our approach to water safety remain fragmented . we have national strategy for road safety , for fire prevention and for public health , yet none for water safety . as an island nation that be proud of our maritime history , it be time to change our approach . indeed , it be high time the Government develop a comprehensive national water safety strategy that bring together civil servant , local authority , school , water company , the emergency service and voluntary organisation in order to raise awareness and , critically , to prevent future tragedy . there be already some brilliant campaign that show how simple positive messaging , position in the right place , can have a demonstrable impact in reduce incident . in particular , I commend to colleague the PaddleSafe campaign , run jointly by Paddle UK and the RNLI , as a good example of what can be do . that summer safety initiative contain five key message to raise awareness of how to prepare for any type of paddle and to stay safe on any kind of water . those message be simple and easy to remember : " always wear a buoyancy aid tell someone where you ' re go Carry a mobile phone check the weather know your limit " . I have see at first hand the danger of not heed those message , which be why I know that education must be at the heart of our response . every child should leave school with basic water safety knowledge : how to recognise danger , how to act in an emergency and how to enjoy our water safely . it be why I be a passionate advocate for swim remain a key component of the national curriculum , as my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen mention . austerity hit access to swimming lesson , as evidence by the fact that 35 % of child from low - income family be able to swim 25 metre unaide compare with 82 % from affluent family . do my hon . friend agree with I that mandatory requirement for swimming and water safety should be in the national curriculum for all primary school ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend ' s remark about improve education and how fundamental it be to do so . indeed , I support call from the Outdoors for all campaign to ensure our young child learn essential outdoor life skill such as risk - benefit assessment , self - sufficiency , navigation and swimming in early year learn and throughout their schooling . that campaign be support by organisation such as the Canal & River Trust , the Outdoor Swimming Society , Surfers Against Sewage and Swim England . I be particularly pleased recently to see an awareness - raise stall at Horwich leisure centre to mark Drowning Prevention Week , make sure that both child and parent be aware of the risk and how to manage they . prevention go hand in hand with responsibility . our waterway be place not only of recreation , but of environmental and economic value , and access be too often restrict , confusing or inconsistently enforce . all that that encourage be irresponsible and frequently dangerous access . if people want to go for a dip on a hot day , like today , we have to assume they be go to find a way to do it , so we need a more proactive role for landowner and land manager in assess and manage risk appropriately , as my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) mention . finally , we can not ignore the role of investment . our rescue service , include our hard - work volunteer in coastguard and mountain rescue team — such as the Bolton Mountain Rescue Team base at Ladybridge Hall in my constituency — do tremendous work , as do our training provider , and they need sustained , reliable funding . whether it be well signage , improve safety equipment at popular swimming spot , or strong enforcement against polluter who degrade our water or fail to maintain safety measure , proper funding be essential . to conclude , improve water safety have three core component : first , improve education ; secondly , improve safety ; and , thirdly , improve and secure access . that will ensure our child , whether they want to swim or spend a day in and around water , be able to do so in a safe manner . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for bring forward this critical debate . we think a lot about water safety in the Ribble Valley constituency ; indeed , the River Ribble be in its name . in the River Ribble catchment , which cover my constituency and some lovely neighbouring constituency , we also have the Hodder , Calder , Darwen , Douglas and Wyre . the Ribble Rivers Trust be a Lancashire - base charity work to improve the River Ribble and all its tributary for people and wildlife . along with the Lancashire Fire and Rescue Service , it do a phenomenal job in advocate for water safety as well . Lancashire be one of the county in the UK with the high water safety risk , which be likely due to the geography , as we have coast , river , canal , reservoir and quarry . one thing that have change a lot in this country in recent year be that people move around much more . I grow up in Ribble Valley , so it be build into I not to swim in open water or reservoir , or we at least know where the really dangerous area be . however , with a more transient population across the country , it be far more critical to have universal education to ensure that people who have not grow up around water understand its risk . another thing I be keen to raise be that , alongside the excellent case be make for lesson in school , it be critical that child be able to learn water confidence through their own exploration and play . as other have say , that require local accessible pool for they to explore . I be grateful to those work with I locally to begin a campaign for a proper public swimming pool in the town of Longridge in my constituency , which be one of the thing that be most request on the doorstep there . finally , I take this opportunity to encourage all adult who have never feel fully comfortable with swim to learn , because it be never too late . I never learn to swim as a child , but a few year ago when my daughter at quite a young age start dive under the water — something I could not do — I realise that I could not be encourage she to be confident if I could not do it myself . it be a humbling thing to be a 30 - something take swimming lesson , but I be grateful to legendary Preston swimming teacher Karen Smith for her patience . the first time I swam 40 length be a very special moment and I be grateful that now , as a parent , I can be confident in adventure with my family . that joy and confidence should be available to everyone in our island nation and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen for push the Government on this matter . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) and I praise Nessa for her tireless campaign . as a former teacher who teach swimming in my nqt — newly qualified teacher — year , as a mum of three young man who be all confident swimmer , and as the MP for Portsmouth ' s coastal community where water be a part of daily life , I know just how vital water safety education be . every child should not only learn how to swim , but understand how to stay safe around water . as have be say today , warn and inform . that be why I welcome labour ' s continued commitment to the PE and sport premium , with £ 320 million for 2025 - 26 , which school can use for teacher training and to top - up swimming lesson . labour ' s new Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill will mean that all state - fund school , include academy , will be require to deliver the national curriculum , which will include swimming and water safety . in addition , the interim report from Labour ' s curriculum assessment review recognise the urgent need to rebalance priority , especially in PE for our old pupil . however , if we be to teach child to swim , we need to ensure we have access to facility — affordable facility — in which to have lesson . I be pleased that Hilsea Lido be have a revamp for local use , but we need to help school work with local facility , be they private or council , to ensure that pool and transport be a real option and be really affordable . I also want to echo the praise for , and the promotion of , the Royal Life Saving Society for the work it be do to help to educate we . its resource be brilliant and there be no need to reinvent the wheel . I have see the great work of my local National Independent Lifeboat Association . alongside Portsmouth RNLI lifeboat and lifeguard , Portsmouth Southsea Voluntary Lifeguards and our local police and fire service , they all go the extra mile . raise awareness help inform and warn , but it need to be put into practice to save life . as my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) note , I also remember the childhood public service broadcast some 40 year ago . they do work , and it would be a great and positive use of our online medium platform . in Portsmouth North , where child live near the sea , pond , shoreline and marsh , these reform to water safety education and swimming be not optional , but essential . I fully support the Government ' s step to ensure that every child leave school with essential lifesaving water skill . I fully support the extra call from my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen . I pledge to work with he and other on behalf of our constituent to make a national strategy for water safety a reality for our kid and for all our community . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) on secure the debate . I will be very brief . I just want to highlight an ongoing issue in my part of the world . I be deeply concerned about the case of Serren Bennett , an 18 - year - old who have be miss from my constituency since 8 June , 11 day ago . she be last see approach Redcar beach , where an item of her clothing have be find . I hope Members across the House will join I in send our thought to Serren ' s family and friend at this difficult time . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I hope that the Government will be able to assure I that the relevant authority will be work with Cleveland police to do everything possible so she can be find . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be pleased to wind up this debate on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , and I congratulate the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for secure it . as other have say , this debate be incredibly timely , as this week be National Drowning Prevention Week . there have be a number of excellent contribution today . I be very pleased to hear the speech of my hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , and want to associate myself with the point she and other hon . member make on the importance of be prepared to spot the danger and react to they and to be ready when thing go wrong , which be just as important as be able to swim in the first place . other hon . member have raise important point and detail — even in short intervention — and I be particularly pleased to see so many colleague from across the House who have attend recent debate on rural and coastal community in their place . there be clearly a theme building here . the hon . member for Southampton Itchen speak about call for ministerial responsibility . I think that could fit very well within the portfolio of a Minister for coastal community , and I look forward to explore that possibility with he far . member who have pay close attention to my past speech in this House might have notice that North Norfolk be a proud coastal community . by our nature , we have a lot of water , and our beach and sea be belove by resident and tourist alike , although for those who be not confident in the water , they can also be incredibly dangerous . Norfolk ' s inland waterway be also very special , with the Norfolk broad and fantastic river and chalk stream like the Glaven , Bure and Stiffkey . this be a serious concern not just to I , but to Imogen , who attend a primary school in my constituency , and who write to I with her concern . Imogen say : " all around North Norfolk there be lot of river which be wonderful . apart from that if people don ' t know how to swim they may fall in and drown . this be a tragic problem which affect people all around England . if people be on a walk around a river or lake and accidentally slip in and inhale the water their family would be distraught . I be not ask for a law that people know how to swim , but be request your attention so that you can review the problem if it persist . it may be a good idea to think about how this affect England as a whole . " she close by say : " I know there be lifesave ring dot around but feel there be not enough and that a few more life could be save if there be more that can be use . swimming lesson be charge quite high make it hard for people to be able to teach their child to swim which may be part of the problem . " I be sure hon . member will agree that Imogen , despite be in primary school , have summarise this problem and highlight the issue just as well as any of we could have . water safety be an issue that could affect any one of our constituent , potentially when they least expect it , as Imogen point out . I agree with she that we need to take a serious look at this across the House , and I hope that the Government will be able to provide not just reassurance and answer , but a promise of action to Imogen and everyone else who be concerned about this issue . the Liberal Democrats be commit to mandatory swimming lesson in school and be call on the Government to ensure that identify swimming skill gap be urgently address . the fact that 30 % of 11 to 12 - year - old be unable to swim more than 25 metre be a real worry for those of we in rural and coastal community who worry for the safety of our young people in our river and sea . to address those issue , we have to invest more in our local swimming pool . I be delighted that in North Norfolk , in the past few year , we have build the Reef leisure centre swimming pool in Sheringham — a real state - of - the - art facility , which be a great asset to the community . I be equally delighted that the Lib Dem council have secure funding for a multimillion - pound expansion and refurbishment of Fakenham leisure centre , which will include a new 25 - metre swimming pool , in the constituency of my neighbour , the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) . rise — on that note , have see the hon . gentleman in his place , I will give way to he . fir , I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his first outing on the Front Bench — he be do a very good job . secondly , I will not quibble over who it be who obtain the funding from the Conservative Government — the Conservative Member of Parliament or the Liberal Democrat district council — so let we leave that to one side . thirdly , I join the hon . gentleman in welcome the development of have a swimming pool in Fakenham . do he agree that that will go a long way in help people in Fakenham and the surround area to learn to swim ? let I absolutely clear : everybody involve in secure that bid deserve congratulation — I totally agree with the hon . Gentleman . be that the hon . Gentleman ' s next point ? I intervene too soon ! [ laughter . ] I think the point the hon . Gentleman be make be that many in Fakenham , as well as the nearby village in my constituency , be delight by the news and thrill with the hard work that have go into secure it . liberal Democrats also want to end the closure of swimming pool by designate they as critical health infrastructure , which would enshrine protection in law , mean that central and local government would have a legal duty not to cut these service and to maintain adequate funding to keep they open . of course , people be not just swim in pool , as many people enjoy gain confidence through wild and open water swimming . however , in order for they to be able to do that , we have to clean up our river and sea after year of scandalous sewage dumping . for those look to swim , only 14 % of river and lake in England be in good ecological health . last year , water company dump sewage more than 100 , 000 time into area with bathing water status . that be unacceptable . we must crack down on the year of unchecked profiteering and environmental damage that the water company have cause . we must bring in tough new law to protect our environment and the health of those who enjoy it . in North Norfolk , we will not stand for it a moment long . to conclude , to secure the water safety that we need , we must have strong education , enable by strong facility and a clean environment . if we do that , then Imogen and people of all age can enjoy the river and sea in North Norfolk and around our beautiful country with confidence and safety for year to come . let I pay tribute to the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) for lead this important debate and for do such a good job in set out all the different issue at stake . although he cover a huge amount of ground in his opening statement , we also hear some excellent speech from across the House , with everyone add important point . we have have excellent speech from the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , and the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) , for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) , and for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) . various point will stay with I . my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) raise the hugely important issue of safety on ice and the terrible , terrible case involve his young constituent . the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) catch my attention with her description of the barbado of south London , which I very much enjoy . I also strongly agree with her tribute to water safety group . my hon . friend the Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) talk about the terrible case of Emily Lewis and the issue of safety on boat , which be a crucial part of this debate . the hon . member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) raise the issue of those old Central Office of Information film that have stay with all of we , particularly the chilling " the Spirit of Dark and Lonely Water " , which we all seem to have see . the hon . member for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) then bring we bang up to date by talk about what social medium could do in this space . the hon . member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) make the crucial point about the importance of not drink and swimming , and the critical danger there . the hon . member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) remind we of the benefit of be able to swim outside , yet there be certain place in which it be just not safe to swim . a number of other member make the point that , in a more transient society , not everyone know where those place be any more . the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) make a powerful speech , talk not just about Sam and his father , but about his private Member ' s Bill , the Water Safety Bill . we also have a really interesting contribution from the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) , who have a beautiful constituency , which I associate with seaside holiday as a child — and as an adult . a surprising fact in her speech be that this subject be not on the curriculum in Scotland , which seem like an obvious first step . the hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) talk about the awful case of the miss child in his constituency . we of course hope for the good for that family . I will turn in a moment to talk about some of the thing that the previous Government do . I do so not to say that everything be wonderful , because of course it be not , but because I think that it might be a way of prompt further reflection on what more we could do to go far . as have already be mention , it be the previous Government who update the national curriculum in 2013 to add swimming and water safety education . it be surprising that it be so late . that be where we get this rule that pupil should be teach to swim at least 25 metre . a few people have talk about facility . the previous Government announce the first £ 10 million and then £ 57 million to open up access to pool in school , as it be obviously very sad to see good facility not be use after school hour . we enable 220 school to open up their pool more than they have be do , and we want to do more of that . we work together with some brilliant organisation in the National Water Safety Forum , include the RNLI , Swim England , the Royal Life Saving Society and many more . we have hear from a number of member about important local and individual campaign that can be so powerful , and I pay tribute to all the people involve in those . I be involve in use the sugar tax to create and then expand the PE and sport premium , which have provide more funding for PE lesson in school . in 2017 , we double the funding that primary school receive to improve the quality of their pe and sport provision , include water education — it go up from £ 160 million to £ 320 million . however , there be still much more to be do , because about a third of adult — about 14 million people — still can not swim . I must pay tribute to the hon . member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) for lead by example and learn to swim as an adult — good on she for do that . all of we be affect by these hugely important issue . member might think that since my constituency be as far away from the sea as it could be , the main risk be normally people with metal detector fish in the canal and constantly fish out hand grenade , but water safety be relevant everywhere . just at Christmas a one - year - old girl be rescue from the River Welland . this have be an important debate . we welcome the Government ' s decision to look carefully at what can be do to build on the exist statutory guidance and update it . we have hear excellent contribution from member on both side of the House , and I look forward to the Minister ' s comment . I join member in congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) on secure a debate on this incredibly important topic in this very timely week and on his powerful opening speech . I be truly sadden to hear of the death of his constituent Joe Abbess and Sunnah Khan at Bournemouth beach in June 2023 . I extend my heartfelt condolence to their family and pay tribute to Vanessa Abbess for her campaigning . I thank the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) for pay such thorough tribute to all member for their contribution . if I be honest , he have save I the task , as he do real credit to the widespread and important contribution that have be make . a number of Members present be clearly work very hard in Parliament on water safety issue , and it be a real honour to work with they . I welcome the engagement from my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen on this topic and wish he every success in his new role as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on water safety education . by hold this debate , we alert more people to the issue of water safety , and we spread understanding of the danger of water , particularly in this hot weather . as mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) , we must remember those who have be affect . there have be many name mention and many tragic story , and by remember they today , we save life and prevent tragedy from happen to other . I want to put on record how sorry I be to hear about Serren Bennet , who be still miss from Redcar beach . my thought go out to her family and friend and to the emergency service , who will be work incredibly hard to find she . this be a timely debate , as we mark the Royal Life Saving Society UK ' s Drowning Prevention Week . I be pleased to support this important campaign . each year , it remind we of the sobering truth that drown be one of the lead cause of accidental death in the UK , and child remain a very vulnerable group . as parent , carer and educator , we have a share responsibility to ensure that every child understand the fundamental of water safety . by have conversation with child about water safety and provide practical learning , we can equip child with the knowledge and skill to recognise danger , know how to respond in an emergency and enjoy water safely , which be fundamentally what we want for child . school have a vital role in achieve this aim . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . I have know she since she first come to the House , and she know that she have my respect and regard . swimming be critical . it be true that people who can swim still get into trouble , but if someone can not swim at all , they be at much great risk . will she work with colleague across the House , include I in respect of Deepings leisure centre , to make sure that there be good swimming facility across the whole of our nation ? the right hon . member be right to recognise how fundamental swimming be , but it be really important to recognise that it be not enough , as have come across very strongly in this debate . but be able to swim be the foundation that every child should have . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , it take a cross - Government effort to make sure that we have the facility that child and everybody else can use to learn how to swim . the national curriculum for PE , as have be note , include mandatory requirement on swimming and water safety at primary school . as have be acknowledge , pupil should be teach to swim 25 metre unaided , to perform a range of stroke , and to perform safe self - rescue in different water - base situation . academy and free school be not currently require to follow the national curriculum , but they do have to provide a broad and balanced curriculum . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which be introduce in December 2024 and be make its way through the House , place a requirement on all state - fund school , include academy , to teach the national curriculum and will , once implement , extend the requirement to teach swimming and water safety to all state - fund school . datum from Sport England ' s active life survey report in 2024 that 95 . 2 % of state primary school survey report that they do provide swimming lesson . we want all pupil to have the opportunity to learn to swim . support be available , as have be highlight , through the PE and sport premium , and a range of guidance and support be available from sector organisation . we be work really closely with sector expert , include the Royal Life Saving Society UK , the Royal National Lifeboat Institution and Swim England , to ensure that all school have access to high - quality resource to provide swimming and water safety lesson to their student . I be therefore delighted to announce last week that the PE and sport premium would continue at £ 320 million for the upcoming academic year . school can use their premium funding to provide teacher training and top - up swimming and water safety lesson for pupil if they still need additional support to reach the standard require in the national curriculum after they have complete their core swimming and water safety lesson . then , alongside water safety and PE lesson , school also currently integrate water safety into their PSHE programme , equip student with an understanding of risk and the knowledge require to make safe , informed decision . the water safety code provide a foundation for water safety education , provide simple , easy - to - remember information that help keep people safe . that be why we be work to ensure that teaching pupil the water safety code at primary and secondary school will feature in our new RHSE statutory guidance , which will be publish shortly . I hope that reassure the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) and many other who express concern today . during my time as Chair of the Petitions Committee , when I sit on the Opposition side of the House , I work really closely on water safety , alongside Rebecca Ramsay , who be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen , who tragically lose her son Dylan in 2011 . so I be really pleased now to be in a position where I can help deliver well water safety education in school and really make further , meaningful progress on this issue , so that no more family lose a child in such circumstance . in 2024 the Department launch its independent curriculum and assessment review , chair by Becky Francis CBE , to shape a curriculum that be rich and broad , inclusive and innovative for learner from five to 18 . the interim report , publish in March , rightly recognise the grow challenge that school face in prioritise subject like PE , particularly at key stage 4 , and the lack of sport opportunity for 16 to 19 - year - old . so I really want to thank member of the National Water Safety Forum education group for their thoughtful contribution to the panel ' s call for evidence . the review be consider a wide range of evidence . we be really keen to work with the sector , not only on what will be include in the curriculum , but on how , as a Government , we can support its implementation so that we have high - quality standard across all school . every child deserve the good start in life , no matter their background or ability , and it be our mission to ensure that we do everything we can to achieve that . no child should miss out on the opportunity to learn how to keep themselves safe in and around water . last month I be pleased to announce a grant of up to £ 300 , 000 a year to the consortium lead by Youth Sport Trust to deliver Inclusion 2028 , a programme to upskill teacher to deliver high - quality and inclusive PE , sport and physical activity to pupil with special educational need and disability . inclusion 2028 will provide inclusive swimming and water lesson . two hundred young water safety champion will be train to promote water safety to their peer . seven new online resource will be create . the consortium will work with disability sport organisation , and nine inclusive school swimming specialist be be deliver to help deliver continue professional development to staff at school and leisure centre . the Minister be right and I agree with everything that she have outline on ensure that those lesson be deliver at school and particularly as early on as possible . may I have her reassurance , and will she briefly outline , how she intend to ensure that be enforce far down the line , once the national curriculum come out ? as I say , we be work with sector organisation on the content of the curriculum , and we be work with the sector on the delivery of these programme . I could go into detail on Ofsted and the change we be make on accountability , but I do not believe there be time in this debate . however , I take the challenge and I will take that away . I agree that not only do we need to say that child should have these thing , but we need to make sure that they be arm with the knowledge that we know will keep they safe . a number of member , inspire by my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) , have mention public information campaign . that bring to my mind the story of Evan Crisp from Newcastle . six year ago , Evan and his friend be at Beadnell bay in Northumberland , celebrate finish their exam , as we know lot of young people will be do at the moment . he be catch in a rip and be sweep out to sea . as Evan lose sight of the beach , he recall an RNLI advert that he have see very briefly — only for a minute — before a film that he have go to see . everyone who fall unexpectedly into cold water want to follow the same instinct : to swim hard , to fight the cold water . yet when people fight , the chance be that they will lose . cold water will make you gasp uncontrollably . Breathe in water and you will drown . if you just float until the cold - water shock have pass , you can control your breathing and have a far well chance of stay alive . Evan follow that advice and manage to hold on to consciousness for 45 minute until he be rescue . he feel incredibly grateful to be alive because he know that many people do not have that opportunity . he do not learn that information at school , but from a public information campaign . I will therefore take away the ask that have be make — they be not necessarily for my Department , but for the Government more broadly . many useful suggestion have be make in our discussion , and we can take those away and work on they . it be clear from this debate that water safety must be a part of every child ' s education . alongside the national curriculum , education setting should have access to a wide range of engage programme , so that young people can know how to enjoy water safely . it can be do and it should be do . I be delighted that representative from RLSS UK , Swim England , RNLI and the Canal and River Trust have all agree to meet I to discuss their work to support water safety education in school . I be grateful for their ongoing work in that area . I be also grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen , the APPG on water safety education and all member who contribute to this important debate . my final word go to the family who have be affect by the terrible loss of a love one , and in particular Joe Abbess ' s family , who be here today . your brave campaigning will save life , so thank you . Beckie Ramsay be my constituent , and it be her son Dylan who drown in that abandon quarry . he will never be forget . the loss that she suffer , and that other have suffer , as have be mention today — none of we can imagine what they go through . I just want to say that Beckie do a great job of go into school , educate and save life for other . I thank all member , from across the Chamber , who have take part in this debate . I will mention a few key strand that have be raise , just because they align with some of the thing that I have ask for . my hon . friend the Member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) mention that the fire response , which be often the first response to these terrible tragedy , be not statutory . do she agree that a Minister with particular responsibility for drown prevention might bring that coherence ? indicate assent . I hope the Minister have follow that . I do not expect everything to be on education , but there be a necessary cross - departmental organisation response that need to happen . it go beyond education and some of the recommendation reflect that . my hon . friend the Members for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) and for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) mention the information campaign that be necessary , particularly use contemporary tool of social medium , which take I to another campaign I be involve in . the potential of social medium to do good be great . unfortunately , too often that be not what happen , so we need to hold social medium company to account , to ensure that they keep our young people safe . my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) mention a wonderful community - lead campaign , and there be a real example to take from that . on the contribution of my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , I meet Sam ' s dad when he be in the House yesterday and I know he appreciate the work that my hon . friend do , so I commend he for Sam ' s law . he can count on my support and , I be sure , that of many other across the House . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) , who , despite the focus on school that some of the debate have necessarily take , make an incredibly salient point about why water safety education need to go wider , and adult learn to swim would also benefit from that . we hear during this debate — and during Drowning Prevention Week — about the wonderful variety of waterway that we enjoy . we have hear about the Thames , from its historical east to the tropical west . the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) mention the neighbouring river to mine — of course , the great river be the River Itchen . I share the Solent with my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) . we hear about the quay and canal of Salford and Greater Manchester , the Severn , the Ribble , the national park , and the lido from Ayrshire to Hilsea . we say that these waterway must be enjoy , but they must be enjoy safely , and we must look at how we can move on from the current situation . I thank everyone who have add breadth to the appreciation of this issue , as well as add weight to the sense of urgency that we must take . hon . member from across the Chamber have demonstrate why the ability to swim and the knowledge of what happen in different waterway up and down the country be absolutely crucial . although we have do that through heartbreake personal account , I hope that their name and story , have be hear in this place , will move we to action . I appreciate the Minister ' s word on what be happen . I be encourage to hear about the meeting take place . I look forward to read and engage with the RSHE guidance . I remain of the view that this should be foundational , not piece together by different approach . I look forward to engage far and ensure that by Drowning Prevention Week 2026 , we will have move on and have act and save more life . by then we will have be through what be already prove to be a hot summer , and indeed through the winter — the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) rightly point out the danger of ice . I thank the Backbench Business Committee , all those who have support and speak in the debate , my team who have make today happen , and the various organisation — I will not list they all — help we to move the dial on this issue . finally , and most importantly , I thank Ness , who have be an incredible inspiration for I in the debate ; I hope she see today that her work be of national significance . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider water safety education . public Sector Pensions : McCloud Remedy Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I rise today to discuss an issue that I be sure affect not just my constituent in Edinburgh West but many of our constituent across the United Kingdom . since 2018 , thousand of civil servant , teacher , doctor , nurse , police officer and firefighter have be wait for the compensation they be entitle to through the McCloud remedy , after the judgment in the Court of Appeal which rule that change to public sector pension unlawfully discriminate against young worker . that impact a huge number of dedicated public servant , include at least 400 , 000 civil servant and more than half a million teacher . in Scotland , more than 13 , 000 police officer be impact and be due remediation , as be around 90 , 000 nhs worker , accord to figure produce by the Scottish Government . it be understandable that , with so many people need remediation , there could be delay , particularly for more complex case or old case that need to be examine manually , but these be have a significant impact on people ' s life . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) as I say , these delay be have a significant impact on people ' s life . I thank the hon . member for secure this important debate . I have have a number of case come into my office as well . my constituent Gavin Templeton , who serve 25 year of dedicated service in the Fife constabulary , be force to return to work because his incorrect pension be so low . do she agree that it be time we do much more to support hard - work public servant like Gavin to receive the full pension they work so hard for ? I thank the hon . member for raise a very good point , which I will come to later . I agree completely ; this have be particularly difficult for many people in the light of the crisis we have face in recent year , with the soar cost of living and sky - high energy bill . this be what have happen to my constituent in Edinburgh West who have come to I with their issue with the administration of the remedy — not the remedy , but the administration of it — and the possible future impact on other pension scheme . one of my constituent who be affect be a retired police officer who serve 25 year . his pension scheme be forcibly change in 2017 to the CARE — career average revalue earning — scheme , which be find to be discriminatory . he retire in February 2023 with his 25 % lump sum , on the assumption that the remedial scheme would be in place by October that year . he estimate that he be now owe more than £ 30 , 000 in term of both his commute lump sum from the new scheme and the low monthly pension . he be also one of thousand of immediate detriment officer still wait for their remediation letter from the pension authority , despite claim that the number of retire officer receive these have accelerate , include in Scotland . another constituent start work for Lothian and Borders police , as it be , in 1996 and retire in 2022 , know he would only receive his pension for his service between 1996 and 2015 , while the remedy be calculate . he be tell at the time that he would receive his remediable service statement by April 2025 , three year after his retirement . he also estimate a loss in pension income of more than £ 30 , 000 , give that seven year of his service to our community be not count when he first retire . a third constituent of mine have raise a possible issue that he face when retire with an NHS pension . the Government ' s approach to NHS pension remedy mean that pension growth will be calculate under an old scheme from 2008 , even if he believe this rollback leave those in the middle of their career vulnerable to artificial breach of the annual pension allowance and significant income tax charge because of the set - up of the 2008 scheme use for calculation . I congratulate the hon . member on secure the debate . I speak to she beforehand to ascertain her focus , which be clearly on the McCloud remedy . the McCloud remedy will have implication on tax for some member , with some need to pay more tax — she have outline three — and other be entitle to a refund . my constituent in Strangford be experience the same issue as those in Edinburgh West and be in a similar position of uncertainty . do she agree that discussion with financial adviser be essential , and for those who do not have access to financial adviser , the employer — the national health service , in the case of my constituent — must provide workshop to ensure that worker can understand what their choice will mean in reality ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very good point . this issue have affect all our constituent , in a different way . his be exactly the sort of point that I hope the Minister may be able to address . all the case that we have mention show the impact that the remedy process have have on people who have dedicate their life to serve our community . it be unfair and must be tackle . in write answer to myself and other hon . member , Ministers have say that it be up to individual pension scheme and their manager to implement the remedy rather than the relevant Government Department , but that seem to allow the scheme to delay , or leave they without the resource and support that they need to process claim at pace . will the Minister outline how the Government work with these authority to ensure rapid delivery of remedial pay ? what step will the Government take to ensure that pension authority can also deliver RSS notice to speed up the process of calculate and award remedial pay ? that be particularly important for police pension , as there appear to be a severe backlog in issue those notice to retire officer to allow they to make their choice under the law . that be leave my constituent in Edinburgh West and other face year of further uncertainty on their finance , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) reference , and lose out on money that they be entitle to for their work . as policing be devolve in both Scotland and , as the hon . Gentleman know , in Northern Ireland , how be the Government work with the devolved administration on these pension scheme to share good practice across Departments , provide increase resource and finally give these public servant , who have serve our community , teach our child and keep we safe for so long , the safety , security and financial stability that they deserve for their retirement ? surely that be what they be entitle to . I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) on secure this debate . I be grateful for her speech , and agree that the people we be talk about keep we safe and well , and show true dedication to public service . I absolutely understand the point that she be make . I will talk a little bit about the background to McCloud , before talk about the progress that have be make to date and what far step the scheme manager still need to take , as the hon . Lady outline . the McCloud remedy be , by its nature , a complex undertaking , as I be sure she will appreciate . it apply to 20 public service pension scheme in the UK , and the scheme manager for those scheme be responsible for ensure that the remedy be administer properly and in accordance with their statutory provision . this issue , as the hon . Lady say , arise out of the introduction of new pension scheme for public sector worker in 2014 - 15 . when introduce those pension scheme , the Government at the time give what be call a transitional protection to old worker , but as she set out , in 2018 the Court of Appeal find that those protection give rise to unlawful discrimination on the ground of age , race and sex . in 2019 , the Government announce that they would address that discrimination through the McCloud remedy . there be two main element to the remedy . the ongoing difference in treatment between old and young worker be remove by close the old pre - 2015 pension scheme and move all active member into the new pension scheme in relation to employment after 31 March 2022 . however , address the discrimination that occur between 2014 and 2022 be considerably more complex , as hon . member will appreciate , because whether individual member be well off under the old legacy scheme or new reform scheme will depend on their individual employment history and circumstance , and in some case will not be certain until they retire . the remedy therefore give a choice over legacy or reform scheme benefit , which be give at the point of retirement for active and deferred member , and be in the process of be roll out for member who have already retire . deliver the remedy to more than 3 million affect scheme member be also an intensive administrative challenge . there be many different element to it , but the most crucial be that all those affect must be provide with individualised information about their pension entitlement during the 2015 to 2022 remedy period , through what be know as a remediable service statement or RSS . in addition , a small group of member , whose tax position during the remedy period may have change , need to be provide with a remediable pension saving statement — an rpss . give the complexity of the McCloud remedy , scheme be also provide significant level of guidance and online resource to help member understand the information they receive and the decision they need to make . that information be often very complex , as hon . member know because many have be in the position of receive it . there be also a dedicated HMRC digital service to allow member receive an RPSS to understand their tax position . there be process in place to allow member to pay additional tax or , as will be the case for the majority of member , to claim either a tax refund or compensation from the scheme where a refund be not possible . provide these statement to member , together with the other aspect of implement the remedy , be the responsibility , as the hon . Lady will know , of pension scheme manager . for the large public service scheme , include the NHS scheme in England and Wales , the teacher ' scheme in England and Wales , and the civil service scheme across the UK , the scheme manager be the relevant Secretary of State . the local government , police and fire scheme be administer locally , which mean each responsible authority , force or brigade have its own scheme manager , who be responsible for the operation of the scheme in that area . the devolved administration — this be pertinent to the concern raise by the hon . Lady , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) — have responsibility for administer their scheme . the Scottish Government , through the Scottish Public Pensions Agency , have responsibility for the police , fire , NHS and teacher ' scheme in Scotland . the Welsh Government be responsible for the firefighter ' scheme in Wales . pension scheme in Northern Ireland be establish under a separate legal framework and be the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Government . this mean that the picture on implement the remedy across the different scheme be complex and may be subject to particular factor that affect one scheme but not necessarily another . the remedy itself vary across the scheme , reflect the fact that the scheme themselves be specific to each workforce and have different benefit design . this can be see in the differ level of progress that scheme have so far make . I be aware that across the police scheme in England and Wales , around 90 % of the total number of rss have so far be issue , and I understand that the picture be similar in the police scheme in Scotland , with 97 % of deferred choice and over three quarter of immediate choice rss already issue . although that be not yet match by other scheme , significant progress be be make elsewhere . for example , the civil service scheme in England and Wales have issue around 45 % of immediate choice rss and the teacher ' scheme around 47 % . it be always anticipate that provide rss to member would be challenging , and that be specifically recognise in the legislation govern the remedy . in particular , the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 set out that for the provision of rss , there be a deadline of 31 March 2025 , or — here come the qualification — " such later day as the scheme manager consider reasonable in all the circumstance in the case of a particular member or a particular class of member " . give that I be ask about delay , I think it be worth reflect that hon . member have raise concern about their constituent who be experience delay in receive the remedy . I be stand in for the Pensions Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , but I use to be the Pensions Minister myself , so I have some knowledge of the issue , and I encourage scheme manager to take every step possible to resolve those case as quickly as possible and to prioritise case where individual may be in particular need . the hon . member for Edinburgh West reflect on a number of such case in her excellent contribution . I assure anybody in this position that where there be an uplift in interest on pension payment , interest will be pay on arrear , so they will not lose out financially as a result of the delay , but I do understand that the delay be frustrating . as the hon . Lady will be aware , the overarch principle of the McCloud remedy be to put people back in the situation they would have be in if the discrimination have not occur . in order to do that , it be necessary to apply interest where payment should have be make at an early date , whether by the scheme or the member . in this debate , we have hear more about the delay of the scheme towards the member . interest be apply at 8 % when the scheme owe money to the member . where the member owe money to the scheme , interest be apply at the NS & I direct saver rate , which be currently 3 . 5 % . I hope that reassure the hon . Lady to a certain extent . we think it be right that these decision be make by scheme manager , as they be the only one with full possession of all the relevant information . as I have say , with that information and the variety of different factor , the situation be complex . have say that , the Government be commit to ensure that all affected member be provide with the remedy they deserve as quickly as possible , include ensure that member already in receipt of pension benefit or approach their retirement be prioritise . where scheme manager have exercise their statutory discretion to extend the deadline for provide some member with an RSS , it be therefore important that appropriate new deadline be set out and that robust plan be in place to ensure the new deadline be meet . scheme manager must ensure that the plan be properly communicate to pension scheme member to provide they with certainty . the Pensions Regulator must also be keep inform of plan and progress , and I know that scheme have be have these discussion with the regulator . similarly , there have be delay in other aspect of the remedy , such as the provision of the rpss to those who need they . as I set out early , that affect a small number of people . however , it be difficult for those people if they be keep wait . it be important that scheme keep member inform and provide they with appropriate resource and support . although I be pleased to say that the process of send out rpss in England and Wales be 90 % complete and that some scheme have send they to all affected member , I know that there be issue in other part of the country . as I say , this be a very complex area . if I have not answer all of the hon . Lady ' s question , I be happy to write to she . give the importance of deliver the McCloud remedy effectively , the Pensions Minister have recently write to responsible Departments , request detail of their plan to issue remain rss and rpss to all affected member . all those affect by the McCloud remedy can be assure that a robust and complete statutory remedy have be put in place and that scheme be work to ensure that member receive the information and support they need . I do , though , note the point that the hon . Lady have make about the impact of the delay on her constituent . they will have the opportunity to decide whether to receive legacy or reform scheme benefit in relation to their service . I again thank the hon . Lady for bring this matter to the House . question put and agree to . House adjourn .