thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) for such a passionate maiden speech . she will be an excellent representative for her constituency . it be a privilege to stand here to give my own as the first woman to represent Knowsley in Parliament . my predecessor , Sir George Howarth , serve Knowsley with dedication for over three decade . in his maiden speech , he promise to " shout and make a fuss " — [ Official Report , 26 November 1986 ; Vol . 106 , c . 289 . ] for his constituent . he certainly keep that promise , serve not only as a loyal constituency MP but as a Northern Ireland Minister under a Labour Government . I have another illustrious predecessor : the MP for Huyton from 1950 to 1983 , Harold Wilson , who serve as a Labour Prime Minister . Harold transform our economy and industry , found the Open University , and start we on the long road to equality that we be still travel . he leave a more equal society than he inherit , one in which far few get by on too little . I be so honoured to follow in his footstep . Knowsley make I who I be . I be bear and raise in Cantril Farm , a so - call slum clearance estate . my nan live in the flat there , and I go to Brookside school , where my auntie Jean be a clean . my dad work at Ford , on the production line , and with his secure , well - pay , unionised job , my mum and dad could give I a well life than they have have . then , as a teenager , I get job in Liverpool , in Brian ' s diner on Stanley Street , and at the Beatles shop , where I meet Paul McCartney a few time . I start club night where I dj ' d , and one of they — liquidation — be still go . however , I be here today as a proud trade unionist . it be the trade union that build the Labour party . I be proud to be a member of Unite and the GMB , and I be proud to be a former political director of Unite and adviser to the general secretary of the TUC . the union be my second family , and it be because of they that I have come from the council estate to the parliamentary estate . I know why I be here : to speak for my class , the work class . I will not forget who I be or where I come from . it be my duty to stand up for the people of Knowsley and to champion our strength — our dignity , our resilience and our sense of community . I will never talk down my part of the world or its people . our street be soundtracke by the La ' s and China Crisis . our park and estate have nurture footballe legend such as Peter Reid and Steven Gerrard . we have produce the fine writer and actor of my class : Alan Bleasdale , Phil Redmond , Sue Johnston , and Stephen Graham . they all showcase Knowsley ' s creative talent . last Friday I meet Lord Derby at Knowsley Hall , the place that give my constituency its name . the so - call local toff and the former council estate kid speak about how we can work together for the betterment of Knowsley . Knowsley Hall , where Shakespeare perform for Queen Elizabeth I , still represent our rich heritage , now revive by the Shakespeare North playhouse . nowadays , alongside the people of Knowsley , I count as constituent two tiger , six lion , 11 rhinos , and a horde of cheeky monkey who will take the wiper off your car at the safari park . in modern manufacturing , the Jaguar Land Rover car plant in Halewood not only provide job across my constituency , but be currently at the forefront of electrification . we have 100 - year - old family firm with solid apprenticeship that lead to skilled job , such as JJ Smith and Hemsec , pioneer in net zero construction . I will fight for investment in firm like these and job to take pride in , which can provide a good life . I be proud of Knowsley , but I will always be honest about what stand in our way . Knowsley be the second most deprived constituency in the country . when government have walk away from we and leave we to manage decline , we have pick ourselves up and help one another through sheer force of will , determination , resilience and solidarity . we now have a Government who will not walk away , a Labour Government who be on our side . in Knowsley , we have great woman who lead community institution that take care of our people every day , such as Rachael Jones at one Knowsley , Marie Stewart at Southdene community centre , Jackie Croft at Centre 63 , Pam Richards at the Safari Kids Club , Caroline Grant at the First Step , and Margaret Roche at SHARe . in 1986 , when my predecessor take his place , only 6 % of school leaver in Knowsley get a job . that kind of unemployment scar family for generation . we have never recover from the devastation of deindustrialisation under Thatcher and 14 year of austerity . we still face low wage , high poverty and few opportunity , and we need secure , unionised job on decent wage so that people can get by and their kid can get on . it be not much to ask , but it be everything . that be why Labour ' s plan — the new deal for work people — be so close to my heart . it will be the great transformation in right at work in a generation . in Knowsley we dream big , but the opportunity be not always there . teacher and school staff in Knowsley work incredibly hard , but the fact be that there be no a - level provision in my constituency . no child should grow up under a Labour Government thinking that they be not good enough to do an a - level , and I will do everything I can to change that , alongside deliver more and well apprenticeship . my politic be the politic of people and of the shop floor , the bus stop , the school gate and the supermarket . from Huyton and Kirby to Prescot , from Stockbridge village to Knowsley village , and from the Johns estate to the Tower Hill estate , I say to my constituent : " you be my priority . I will not take you for grant . it be the honour of my life to serve you , and I will do my very good for you . " I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) and for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) who give excellent speech , show real love for their community . I look forward to serve alongside they in the year ahead — country first , party second . I know other may think it be the case for they , but must admit to the House that I have the immense privilege of represent the most beautiful constituency in Wales , and therefore the entirety of the United Kingdom . from the spire of St Davids cathedral , to the classic car show in Cresswell Quay , Dobby ' s grave in the sand dune of Freshwater West , and the pastel - colour house in Tenby , Pembrokeshire be iconic . even the little - know playwright William Shakespeare pose the question as to how Wales be make so happy as to inherit such a haven . if that be not enough , Lord Nelson declaim that we have the fine port in Christendom . that be praise indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have be discuss constitutional reform extensively in this debate and Pembrokeshire have always be interweave with the story of our individual , but united , four nation : the Welsh monk Asser summon by Alfred the Great to leave the great settlement of St Davids to advise he at court ; the birth of Henry Tudor in Pembroke Castle who would later return from exile to land his army near Dale and march to Bosworth Field ; and the siege of Pembroke castle by Oliver Cromwell in almost the final act of the english civil war , begin a period of 12 year of the protectorate reign supreme . since my election on 4 July , some of the more charitable correspondent have take the opportunity to observe that I be a slightly unusual person to be a Labour MP . I come from a farming family and there be not many vote Labour poster around where I grow up , but time have change and , as the son of a fierce , strong and wonderful Welsh woman , who be in the Public Gallery today , I be proud to be part of the red wave that subsume Pembrokeshire , Wales and our United Kingdom . my wife and I choose Pembrokeshire as our home . I choose to join the Labour party , and now , perhaps to my father ' s despair , I choose to vote and do away with hereditary peer . I say sorry to my dad , who be sit in the Public Gallery today , but I be here to serve the many , not the few . talk of family , I wish to acknowledge my wife , Poppy . it be not fun be a political spouse — not that I would know — and she have big fish to fry in the law court . she have be a tower of strength — a real and meaningful support — and I be so grateful that she be on this journey with I . we do not get to this place alone , and I want to thank all those true believer who stand with I and campaign in the rain , the sleet and the snow , on the beach , across farm and across our many rural community to deliver a Labour MP and a Labour Government . I be grateful to they all . as with the history , the experience and the tribulation of the great figure of Pembrokeshire ' s history , our county have see its fortune rise and fall . the fishing industry be once the large in our United Kingdom . the establishment of the Royal Naval Dockyard during the napoleonic war in Pembroke Dock cement our county ' s military legacy , which live on to this day in Brawdy barrack and Castlemartin range . the latter part of the 20th century see the rise of the oil industry and the transformation of Pembrokeshire ' s economic fortune , with four oil refinery on stream by the early 1970 . oil have give way to gas , and the Port of Milford now have two liquefy natural gas terminal , one gas - fire power station and one oil refinery . More than 20 % of the UK ' s energy come through the port . with the rise of renewable energy and the potential for float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , we be in a unique position to give true meaning to the term a " just transition " . we have the talent , the skillset , the resource , and I will use my voice in this House at every give opportunity to ensure that Pembrokeshire will not only benefit from but spearhead the industry of the future . on the subject of fortune rise and fall , I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , Simon Hart and Stephen Crabb . both be dedicated servant of the good people of Pembrokeshire and have long and successful career in this House . they fly high , with both serve as Secretary of State for Wales and hold other Cabinet position . their most notable act be Stephen ' s bid to be Prime Minister and Simon ' s unenviable task of hold together a fragmented Tory party as Chief Whip . I wish they both well , and I hope that Simon , the quintessential countryman , can find time for his alternative pursuit , give that his favoured sport have become something of a b ê te noire for my party . as I bring my maiden speech to a close , I wish to paraphrase the word of a man great than I and one who have already be mention in this debate : the inspirational and history - make Harold Wilson . he say that the party on the Government Benches be drive every day by " a moral crusade " and that , without that mission , that purpose and that cause , we be nothing . in my county , where we have the high child poverty rate in Wales , those word be as true now as they be then . I will use my time in this House to fight for fairness , to deliver real change and to stand up for all the people who live , learn and work in the wonderful community that send I to Parliament . the work be urgent , the time for action be now , and I be here to serve .