crime in Hyndburn and Haslingden be currently out of control . robbery have skyrocket in my constituency by 75 % in the past year , which be far bad than the already shocking 17 % increase that we have see across Lancashire . shoplifting have soar by 70 % , which , again , be significantly bad than the 23 % rise across the county . those number be not just statistic ; they represent victim — business owner whose livelihood be threaten , family who feel unsafe and community tear apart by lawlessness . indeed , just last week local business in Accrington see around 10 break - in . almost half of my constituent — 44 % — will experience violent crime . that be unacceptable , and I be speak here today because I refuse to accept it any long . just over the weekend , an awful video have sadly be circulate on social medium of yet another terrible incident of violent crime in Hyndburn . this government ' s Crime and Policing Bill be the big crackdown on crime in decade . we be take back our town centre from thug and thief and restore respect for law and order , give our community and police the tool they need to fight back . for too long the crime that have make Accrington ' s town centre almost lawless , the so - call low - level offence , have be ignore . when shoplift , antisocial behaviour and street crime go unpunished , our high street suffer , our economy decline , and our community start to lose hope . Accrington be once a thrive hub . it have be neglect for too long , but these new power for the police be key to turn that around . the Bill deliver real action . the police will no long need a warrant to search premise when steal good be track electronically , and there will be no more safe haven for criminal . respect order will clamp down on public drinking and drug taking , ensure that our street be no long place of disorder . officer will have the power to seize nuisance vehicle — such as the off - road bike I see on Friday tear up our park in Rishton — on the spot . crucially , the day of treat theft under £ 200 with effective immunity be over . stealing be steal , and criminal will be hold to account . it be also welcome that the Government listen to the campaign organise by the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and other shop worker for the introduction of a new offence of assault a shop worker in this vital Bill . the Labour Government be not just tough on crime ; they be invest in solution . I welcome the provision of 13 , 000 new police officer to ensure that every community have its name police officer . this be part of the Government ' s £ 200 million investment , which will deliver a 6 . 6 % funding uplift in Lancashire . enough be enough : the people of Hyndburn and Haslingden deserve safe street , a thrive town centre , and the right to live without fear . the Bill deliver that , and I be proud to support it . I welcome many of the measure in the Bill , particularly those concern knife crime and the protection of shop worker who all too often bear the brunt of antisocial behaviour . however , one of the big deterrent for criminal be the certainty of be catch , and reduction in police number nationally be as wrong as they be locally . in Avon and Somerset , the former conservative police and crime commissioner cut pcso by a further 80 last year — a massive 28 % reduction — and close our Taunton police station . [ Official Report , 17 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) I welcome clause 4 ' s provision on public space protection order , which I will come on to . I welcome the commitment to deliver 13 , 000 extra officer of various kind , but worry for I be the fact that my constituent have come to see I about their relative who be serve police officer . civilian have be replace by officer in uniform do the same civilian job , just so that it can be claim that police number have increase . I hope the Minister will make sure that that do not continue to occur with the new recruitment , which be very welcome . unless officer be see in our community and on the street , they will not deter or catch the criminal we need they to catch . last autumn , I be contact by business in Castle Green in Taunton , which be at their wit ' s end because of the antisocial behaviour in the historic centre of our county town . I contact the chief constable straightaway . I be really grateful to Avon and Somerset officer for the effort they have put in , as I be to the chamber of commerce in Taunton , which have raise the general issue of town centre crime and convene the safe street forum that I attend last week , but it be clear that we need to deter antisocial behaviour and crime where it be take place . that be prove by the fact that Lib Dem - run Taunton town council have just appoint a street marshal , who be on duty in our town centre . I spend the afternoon with Nick last Friday . he be do an excellent job and cover a huge range of work , from people climb all over the rooftop to retrieve thousand of pound ' worth of stock by simply ask the person responsible to hand it over . he must have be quite persuasive in ask the individual to do that . I congratulate Nick , our street marshal , but when I return to Castle Green with he , it be clear that the antisocial behaviour problem there have become intractable . I therefore suggest that we need to work with Somerset council to get a public space protection order , and I hope the Government will support its enforcement . too many of our great community event be mar by the antisocial few , and we need to tackle that . we need the public space of Castle Green , with its superb independent market , our famous Castle Hotel , the schedule ancient monument , which be the castle itself , and the Museum of Somerset where soon people will be able to see the Chew valley hoard of silver coin from the Norman conquest . I can not use those coin to pay for the enforcement of the public space protection order , but I hope it will have Government support so that we can ensure that key public space be not subject to conquest by those who would disobey the law , wreak havoc among local people , damage livelihood and tarnish the generally superb reputation of our county town .