prayer the Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . a Division be call . division off . question negative . Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Bill consideration of Lords amendment Clause 1 - liability of employer for harassment of employee by third party I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendment 2 . workplace sexual harassment blight our society . not a week go by in which we do not hear about sexual misconduct in an organisation somewhere in the UK . some 43 % of woman have experience at least three incident of sexual harassment at work . Most victim do not report it , for fear of not be believe or of damage their working relationship and career prospect . although sexual harassment be not confine to woman , the vast majority of victim be woman . Harassment have a devastating impact on victim . nearly half of woman harass at work say that it have harm their mental health . one in four say that they avoid certain work situation , such as meeting , course , location and shift , to avoid the perpetrator . More than one in four say that they want to leave their job but could not . nearly one in five leave their job as a result of this treatment . every person should be safe from sexual harassment , but every day new story expose the extent of the problem in our workplace . just this year , there have be a torrent of misconduct allegation against prominent company and organisation . there remain question to be answer at the CBI , Odey Asset Management , the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , the fire service , the National Crime Agency and even our NHS . the hon . Lady be make a very important speech about a powerful topic . as a former NHS employee for over 30 year , I be aware of some poor practice and lack of control over certain individual who be sexual predator . they be only a small minority , but they have a massive impact on other NHS worker . do she agree with I that we must protect our precious NHS staff and stamp out sexual harassment in all workplace ? I could not agree more . the hon . Lady point out that a few individual damage the reputation of a whole organisation and , especially when it come to our NHS , that be devastating . the Bill should be good for organisation because it protect they as well . will the hon . Lady clarify — I be not sure from her remark so far — whether she be in favour of Lords amendment 1 , or be she speak against it ? I will come to that later , but I will be support the Lords amendment . there be many good employer who have implement measure to safeguard their employee . however , far too many have not do enough to prevent and punish sexual harassment . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech about an issue that , as she say , have blight our workplace . do she agree that part of the problem be that employer do not act when harassment begin at a low level ? put worker down , talk over they and belittle they be just the start and it grow from there . too often in the past , people have just be move to a different department . will her Bill put an end to that sort of atmosphere in the workplace ? yes , it should be the beginning of a culture change to prevent sexual harassment happen before it get to a point where it have such damaging effect . the Equality and Human Rights Commission find that in nearly half of case report the employer take no action , minimise the incident or place the responsibility on the employee to avoid the harasser . what one also find again and again be that the employer do not really know what to do . when the Bill become law , there will be guidance for employer so that they know exactly what be expect of they . that should help organisation to face those problem . I thank the hon . Lady for give way , because she be make a very important speech . protect people , especially woman , from harassment be hugely important . the Government have a fantastic track record of bring in legislation to protect vulnerable people . I have strong concern about the Bill in its unamended state , particularly on make employer responsible for third - party harassment . however , yesterday I contact Denise Rossiter , the chief executive of Essex chamber of commerce , to ask the opinion of Essex business . the message I receive back be clear : local Essex employer warmly welcome the amendment make to the Bill in the other place . I be delighted the Government have back they . I welcome the amendment , in particular Lords amendment 1 , and I support the Bill in its amend state . I thank the hon . Lady for that intervention and I be pleased we have come to a point across both Houses where we can pass the Bill , as amend , into law . I will come to the amendment later in my speech and she will hear what I have to say . the current law on sexual harassment mean that employer often adopt individualised response to institutional problem . that create space for employer to minimise what be go on and lead to confusion about how to respond appropriately . only 45 % of manager feel support by their organisation when report be make to they . ultimately , our current law do not protect people who have encounter traumatic experience . we can and must do well . my Bill will strengthen the legislative protection against workplace sexual harassment . it will help to create safe working environment that be fit for the 21st century . it introduce a standalone duty for employer to take responsible step to prevent sexual harassment within their organisation . that will make a real difference , as it will require employer to take proactive step to address sexual harassment . it will help to instil a culture change , and it will ensure that people who abuse woman and other can no long rely on their workplace turn a blind eye . instead , they will be hold accountable for their action , make workplace safe , more productive and more enjoyable for everyone . I have be pleased to see cross - party consensus for my Bill from the outset , with all party willing to work together to ensure its passage . there have be unstinte cross - party support from a sizeable majority of mp and peer , which clearly demonstrate that workplace sexual harassment be not a party political issue anymore . I be glad that today should mark the final point of the passage of these vital protection into law . it take the good part of 2023 to get we here , and I thank everybody involve for their patience and support . I express my particular gratitude to the Minister for Women and Equalities and the Government Whips , whose support during the up and down of the difficult passage of the Bill I have greatly appreciate . I say a big thank you to Baroness Burt of Solihull , who have work tirelessly in the other place to ensure that my Bill get to this stage . my thank also go to the team at the Government Equalities Office , whose constant advice and encouragement have be outstanding . finally , I thank my own team for stick with I . I will now speak to Lords amendment 1 and 2 , which have undoubtedly narrow the scope of my Bill . lord amendment 1 , table by Lord Hannan of Kingsclere , remove clause 1 from the Bill , get rid of the propose liability of employer for third - party harassment in the workplace . it mean that incident of third - party harassment will continue not to be cover by the law , other than in extreme case result in clear personal injury or where a criminal offence have be commit . the legal situation will remain as it have be since third - party harassment protection be repeal in 2013 . I personally think that that be a shame . lord amendment 2 , table by Baroness Noakes , narrow the concept of " all reasonable step " to simply " reasonable step " . the practical step that an employer might take would be substantially the same . for example , employer might consider implement an effective equality policy , provide anti - harassment training and deal effectively with employee complaint , among other thing . the difference in the wording mean that the tribunal would apply a low threshold when assess a breach of the employer duty compare with the original drafting of the Bill . the Equality Act 2010 already contain a statutory defence that require an employment tribunal assessment of whether an employer take all reasonable step to determine legal liability . the amendment will not change the Equality Act ' s exist statutory defence , but will create a different test for the new duty on employer to prevent sexual harassment . the employer duty will still send a strong signal to employer that they need to take action to prioritise prevention of sexual harassment and ultimately improve workplace practice and culture . I can not stand here and say that I be completely happy with the amendment , but if I do not accept they the Bill would not progress into law , and that would be a lot bad . peer in the other place have reach an understanding with Baroness Burt of Solihull and I : to ensure the passage of the sexual harassment preventive duty , we have accept the amendment under discussion today . the long it take for legislation prevent sexual harassment to become law , the more worker — especially woman — will be leave at risk of workplace sexual harassment . that would simply not be acceptable . in the face of continuous scandal , we as lawmaker can not stand by and do nothing . once the Bill have pass into law , it will be the beginning of a much - need culture change . I have be most grateful for the guidance of the Fawcett Society and the wide alliance for woman , who continue to support the Bill because of the substantial difference it will make to woman ' s life . without their support and guidance , I would not have be able to take this revise Bill forward . those group remain disappointed that the clause that would have provide protection from third - party harassment have not be take forward . I fully accept their disappointment . further protection be essential to give business and organisation clarity on what they need to do to make their workplace safe for everybody . we hope that the debate on this Bill have encourage all business and organisation to recognise that they can make a significant difference in protect staff from harassment by customer and client . there remain unfinished business , but the discussion be move we forward and it be important that we get cross - party support in both Houses , which be why I keep say that I be accept the Lords amendment . the Government ' s own survey on sexual harassment find that every day 1 . 5 million people face sexual harassment from a third party at work — that do not even consider the scale of other form of third - party harassment , for example those of a racist or homophobic nature . I will continue to make the case for protection against third - party harassment to be put in place , and I hope that the Government will listen and continue to work with the Fawcett Society and the wide alliance for woman to bring the require legislation forward in the next Parliament . I be content that as of today we have reach a consensus on a pragmatic way forward . it be vital that we send a clear signal that sexual harassment in the workplace be not acceptable and step should be take to prevent it . I be grateful for the cross - party support and particularly the support of the Government . I ask the House to accept the Lords amendment so that this Bill can pass into law . no one should have to wait any long for this vital step towards safe and more respectful workplace . I do not propose to divide the House today and I be happy that we have get to a place where the Bill have be effectively gutte by their lordship . I be happy with the cross - party consensus on where we have get to . it be right that we have remove the third - party liability , but there be something regrettable about the way this Bill have develop . there be a good moment when , in response to pressure from their lordship , the Government propose to introduce a new defence against Equality Act harassment , whereby it should be possible to defend a suit on the ground that there be no intention to injure the injure party , and merely overheard conversation and civil discussion , be they among colleague or customer , should not be liable to legal action . that be a good step ; it develop and improve our equality law . in response to pressure from the other place , the Government have now withdraw the third - party liability measure , which be a good thing . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) that we be now in a position to abstain from oppose this Bill . however , we need to debate our equality framework in this country . fundamentally , we need to stop bring forward what I call performative legislation intend simply to outlaw behaviour we disapprove of , immoral conversation , bad manner , and action likely to cause hurt and distress . we can not legislate against all of those action and if we try — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will be happy to give way to the hon . Lady in a moment . I recognise that we all intend to do the right thing by bring forward this legislation . I recognise that the Government be try to do the right thing , as be the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) . however , we get into all sort of trouble when Opposition member get hold of this sort of law in Committee and when the court be require to judge on what will necessarily be obscure language about the management of human relation and free speech . the precedent be set by this law be dangerous . do the hon . Gentleman agree that a lot of the damage that be do in a workplace , which leave an individual , perhaps a young one in their first employment , feel undermined , damage , bully and harass , often come from exactly the sort of casual conversation they overhear in a canteen or in the office ? the intent of the Bill be not to be restrictive of people , but to protect young people in the workplace , on whom these thing can have a huge impact . the hon . Lady define exactly the issue . she talk about the intent of the Bill be to protect people from feel distressed , which I think be absolutely right — we should all intend that — but it be difficult for law to manage and protect people ' s feeling . the consequence of write that into black and white mean that we then require court to adjudicate on all sort of very difficult emotional issue . the hon . Lady talk about the intent behind the Bill . we all intend the right thing here . we be all in unity that we disapprove of harassment and incivility , but we disapprove of all sort of thing that we can not and should not try to criminalise . the consequence of criminalise bad manner — even very bad manner — be fundamentally to curtail free speech and the freedom upon which all of our civility as a society depend . I be glad that we be have this discussion in a very respectful way , because that be how it should work . I recognise that that discussion may not have be have enough and we need a little more time have it . do the hon . Gentleman think that legislation guide well behaviour and that , for that reason , it be important that we pass certain law ? that be the intention of the Bill . as I say , I have accept the Lords amendment , but do he agree that legislation guide well behaviour and that be what we should aim for ? this be an important discussion . the hon . Lady be say that the law be a teacher — indeed , it be — and influence the culture . it be also true that the law need to reflect the culture , so we modernise our legislative framework in response to public opinion and how thing be . we now legalise thing that be illegal in the past in response to the way culture evolve . however , the law be a teacher in a bad way too . it can introduce negative effect into our culture and chill free speech . it can inhibit the sort of conversation that be necessary for the development and progress of our society , which be a topic that will come up later in other legislation . there be significant attempt during the pandemic to effectively criminalise or inhibit free speech around the pandemic response , on exactly the same ground that we might use in this debate , namely that it be important for public protection and the protection of the vulnerable that misinformation , disinformation and , in this context , harassment should be criminalise . that be wrong , and I really worry about the possible chilling effect of this legislation . a narrow gap be leave in this law to criminalise free speech . many member will raise the outrageous and unacceptable behaviour that many employee have to put up with in the workplace — I recognise that too . we absolutely need to insist that that do not happen , but that be a job for the culture and for employer . in a sense , it be a job for all of we to instil the right sort of moral conduct in our community , but frankly it be impossible to write legislation in black and white that achieve the outcome the hon . Lady wish without also inhibit free speech . I will end with an observation about another piece of legislation that I understand be be contemplate for the King ' s Speech : a conversion therapy ban . I be afraid that that be another instance where , under the noble and honourable impulse to stop outrageous and unacceptable practice go on , we be propose a piece of performative legislation in response to a vocal and activist lobby group that will put into law an imprecise and fuzzy set of moral aspiration . once Opposition member get hold of it in Committee , on Third Reading and in the House of Lords , the scope will be expand and then court will be require to criminalise conversation between adult and their therapist , parent and child , which be exactly what happen in other country where this well - intentione legislation have be pass into law . the law be a teacher , but it be not an opportunity for moral grandstanding and virtue signalling . we have an obligation to put into black and white word that the court clearly understand and that do not end up curtail free speech . it be a relief that we have this Bill back here today , give that it be report early in the year that it be likely to be shelve , possibly because of the backlash we have just hear . the Bill have come back from the other place , albeit heavily amend , and it still represent a step in the right direction , albeit a very small one . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) have do a sterling job in get this Bill through the parliamentary maze . she have be extremely gracious and generous in her comment today , give what be leave in the Bill . I think it be a fine description to say that it have be narrow in scope . alternatively , it could be describe , as the hon . member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) have just do , as have have the gut rip out of it . I know which description suit what have happen well . there be quite a contrast between what we have now and what we have when the Bill start its journey through the House . the Bill be never about criminalise free speech ; it be about tackle a real and live issue in the workplace . when the Bill start its passage , member rightly speak in unison about the appalling scale and nature of sexual harassment in Britain ' s workplace . indeed , we should all be deeply concerned about the number of woman face harassment at work . the late datum from the Government show that nearly one in three employee experience some form of sexual harassment in the previous year . that mean that 4 . 7 million woman each year experience harassment in the workplace , and we know that the impact on those victim can be profound . we know that it can lead to a variety of harm , include psychological , physical and economic harm , and all too often the perpetrator get away with it . accord to recent datum , 41 % of perpetrator of sexual harassment see no sanction at all . meanwhile , 17 % of those who be sexually harass end up work elsewhere due to their experience . in 2023 , that be not good enough . those figure speak for themselves about why parliamentary intervention be need . I be glad that we be support this Bill . my hon . friend talk about woman be subject to sexual harassment , and we know that the problem be endemic , but it also seem that , increasingly , young man be report that they be fall foul of that — even in this place . it be really important that we recognise that man , particularly young man , can be victim as well . yes , that be absolutely right . the Equality Act be frame in such a way that it protect everyone from harassment on the basis of their sex . I think that we now have a Bill that , after the amendment , to our regret will not protect worker from third - party harassment . the duty to take all reasonable step have now be reduce or water down to take reasonable step . we be disappointed that the Bill return in a form that look very different from what be originally pass by this House . it seem that the original good intention of the Bill have — to use the term of the hon . member for Devizes — be " gutted " , and I be sorry to say that seem to have be with the support of the Government . let we not forget that , when the Bill pass through the Commons originally , it do have support from the Government and it also have cross - party support , which be a rarity these day . therefore , it be extremely disappointing that the democratically elect House seem to have give in to the unelected Lords , seemingly with the endorsement of the Government . I have to say that the Government ' s decision to support the Lords amendment that have take the gut out of the Bill be frustrating , give that the Bill be enact pledge that the Government have make . do the hon . Gentleman not recognise that this be the Bill of the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) and it be up to she to decide which amendment she do or do not accept ? the Government have fully support the hon . Lady . this be not a government decision ; it be part of the parliamentary process . I thank the Minister for her comment . the Government have a majority , so if they want to keep the Bill in its original form they could have ensure that it pass . let I quote what she say at Committee stage . she say that " the Government commit to a package of new measure aim at reduce incidence of workplace harassment . that include the two legislative measure be bring forward in the Bill : explicit protection for employee from workplace harassment by third party , such as customer and client ; and a duty on employer to take all reasonable step to prevent their employee from experience sexual harassment . " – – [ Official Report , Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Public Bill Committee , 23 November 2022 ; c . 10 . ] it be true that I have accept the Lords amendment . indeed , it be ultimately I who propose that we should go all the way in order to preserve one thing that I find incredibly important , which be the preventive duty on employer . do the hon . Member not agree that this be an important step and for that reason it be right that I accept the Lords amendment ? I accept what the hon . Member say . we will certainly not oppose the Bill , but we do have to challenge the Minister on why she have change her mind , give that , last year , she say that the measure in the Bill " continue to form a key part of the Government ' s national strategy for tackle violence against woman and girl . " – – [ Official Report , Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Public Bill Committee , 23 November 2022 ; c . 10 . ] why have the Government decide to change their mind on it ? it seem to I that they have fold to pressure from their Back Benchers . let we not forget that the Bill come about as a result of an extensive government consultation , which receive more than 4 , 000 response . it be not necessarily for I to come to the Government ' s defence here , but I think the hon . Gentleman be tie himself up in knot with his argument . the amendment be pass in the House of Lords . he will have notice , I be sure , that the Government do not have a majority in that House , so they can not be hold responsible for an amendment pass in it . if the Government have do as he ask by overturn the Lords amendment , the Bill would have fall altogether , so I be not entirely sure what he be argue for . I be sure that the hon . Member be aware that we vote regularly on Lords amendment in this place , and that the Government use their majority to overturn they . the point that I be try to make be this : where do this leave Government policy on the issue ? the Fawcett Society find that 56 % of woman work in the hospitality sector , and 47 % of those work in the service industry , have face sexual harassment in the workplace . what will the Government do about that ? if the hon . Gentleman wish to press the matter to a vote as a point of principle , he could vote down the Lords amendment . I be sure that my hon . friend the Member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) would be delighted if he do , because in do so he would guarantee that the whole Bill fall . be that really what he want ? no , that be not what I want , which be why I have say that we will not oppose the amendment , but we be still entitle to express our disappointment about the capitulation . the Equality and Human Rights Commission ' s 2018 report find " a quarter of those report harassment say the perpetrator be third party " and that third - party sexual harassment be deal with poorly and consider " a ' normal ' part of the job " by some employer . I do not think that be a situation that we should defend . let we be clear : we would not have object to the Bill if that have be in place — we certainly would have support it — but we will support it as it stand because , as the hon . member for Bath say , it be an important step in the right direction , albeit a much small step than originally intend . the question remain : what be the Government ' s plan to deal with third - party harassment ? if they will not bring forward a legislative solution , what do they intend to do ? if there be a repeat of the scene at the president Club tomorrow , what would be the consequence for the perpetrator ? we need answer to those question . despite the removal of the word " all " from the Bill , the duty to prevent sexual harassment be , as the hon . member for Bath say , a new duty that represent a positive step forward . establish that preventive duty will shift the emphasis away from a reliance on individual report harassment to employer and will encourage employer to take preventive step . we be optimistic — we can be — and hope that the Bill will drive structural change by fundamentally shift the responsibility from the individual to the institution , but what that will mean in reality and how much capacity the ehrc will have to investigate complaint remain to be see . its responsibility to create a statutory code of practice should mean that the focus will be more on work with employer . do the Minister have any information on when she expect that statutory code of practice to be publish , should the Bill be pass , and will it draw mainly from the non - statutory code of practice that have already be produce ? we believe that everyone should be able to go to work safe from sexual harassment , know that their employer have take step to create a safe work environment . that be why a Labour Government would go much far than the House have today . I congratulate the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) on progress this Bill , which tackle the important issue of sexual harassment in the workplace . I thank she for the pragmatism she have show to ensure that the Bill can progress with agreement from across the House . it be slightly disappointing to see the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , take such a partisan approach , because the Bill have have cross - party support throughout all its stage . it be often very difficult for private member ' bill to pass through this place , but the Government have fully support the Bill , because it be such an important issue to tackle . we have especially make time for an additional sitting Friday , to ensure that the Bill pass . we remain committed to tackle sexual harassment in the workplace by introduce the employer duty , to strengthen protection in the Equality Act 2010 . while I note the concern from my hon . friend the Members for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) and for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) , I be very pleased that consensus have be reach here and in the other place , and I hope member will agree that this important Bill should now be on the statute book . I would like to particularly thank my hon . friend the Member for Devizes , who have some genuine concern about the Bill that he have express today and at previous stage . this be a difficult subject . while there may be difference in view and opinion , I be really pleased that the hon . member for Bath have be able to progress the Bill through both Houses , because we need to make our workplace well and safe . that be particularly true for woman . we have hear recently about some of the experience of female surgeon in the healthcare system . with my other hat on as a Health Minister , I be particularly pleased that this legislation will hopefully prevent some of those experience in future . I turn to the Lords amendment . lord amendment 1 leave out clause 1 , to remove the propose liability of employer for third - party harassment in the workplace . I be glad to hear that the amendment to remove this third - party harassment liability ease concern that it could have have a chilling effect on free speech in the workplace . I be pleased that that have be address . there be some — I know the hon . member for Bath be one of they — who be disappointed that the amendment have remove the third - party harassment liability , for very valid reason , but this be about get a compromise , so that we get the majority of the measure in the Bill through this place . the Government believe it be important that worker be protect against this form of harassment , and good employer be already take step to ensure that their employee be protect from harassment by third party , regardless of the legal position . however , to progress the Bill , we have have to be pragmatic , acknowledge the complexity at play and find a suitable balance . while we want to strengthen protection , we also do not wish to infringe on individual ’ right to freedom of speech . everyone have the right to their view and to debate they just as we be do today , respect other ' view in the process . the aim of the Bill be to tackle workplace harassment and not limit people ' s freedom . it be important to remember that , despite the removal of the third - party harassment provision , the Bill will still introduce a new duty on employer to take reasonable step to prevent sexual harassment . the Government ' s priority be to ensure that the legislation work effectively . we have consistently consult with a wide range of stakeholder and have listen to all their view . as my hon . friend the Member for Southend West have consult with her chamber of commerce , the Government have do so more widely . when concern regard the potential chilling effect on free speech be first raise as the Bill progress through the Commons , the Government take on board those issue . it be fear that employer may take unreasonable or drastic measure to avoid liability for harassment of their staff , particularly by third party , to the extent that they would feel oblige to shut down conversation in the workplace . while employer will be expect to take action against workplace harassment , we recognise that those action should fall short of prohibit conversation . free speech be crucial to our way of life , and it be important that we find a way forward . with over 40 amendment table to the Bill in the other place follow its Second reading on 24 March , even after the Government table their amendment , it be clear that there remain concern that the Bill would still have a chilling effect on free speech . the Government take those amendment very seriously , as they be fatal to the Bill . in our engagement with stakeholder and peer , we hear the strong concern , particularly about the third - party harassment issue , so we be eager to find a balance and a way forward for the Bill to reach the statute book with cross - party support . therefore , the Government have be pragmatic and alive to the issue raise , and consensus be reach with peer by remove all but two of their amendment . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston , do not comment on the other amendment — over 38 of they — that we manage to get remove . on 14 July in Committee , the Lords amend the Bill to remove from it the propose liability of employer for third - party harassment in the workplace , which we be ask member to support today . again , I have say all along that we will not be introduce protection against third - party harassment . it have to be remember that we will still be introduce a new duty on employer to take reasonable step to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace , so I hope hon . member can see that we be strengthen protection , but we have to be alive to the concern of the other place . we have accept Lords amendment 2 — to leave out the word " all " in clause 2 , page 2 , line 27 — which change the requirement on employer in respect of their duty to prevent sexual harassment from take " all reasonable step " to take " reasonable step " . I understand that the removal of " all " mean that that duty do not go as far as the hon . member for Bath would originally have like , but it do reassure member in the other place that the introduction of a duty on employer to take reasonable step to prevent sexual harassment will strengthen protection for worker . before I close , I will touch on the concern express by my hon . friend the Member for Devizes . it be important to say that the Government recognise that sexual harassment in the workplace exist , and while protect free speech be important , we constantly hear of these experience , day in and day out — particularly the experience of woman , but the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) touch on the harassment of man as well . we can not stand by and let that continue . Guidance and measure be already in place to encourage employer to protect their employee , and the tribunal system be in place as well , but that be clearly not enough , which be why the Bill be so important . however , we have listen to the concern around the impact on freedom of speech . I be very happy to support the hon . member for Bath , and thank she again for all her work in this place on the Bill and for her pragmatism . I know that the amendment be difficult one to accept , but this Bill will make a difference to the safety of worker in the workplace , and I congratulate she on her work . private member ' bill be fragile thing : they rely on cross - party support , but also support in both Houses . for that reason , it be very important to be pragmatic ; otherwise , the whole Bill would have fall . I be grateful for the Government ' s patience and their support for the part of the Bill that we all can agree be so important , which be to create a preventive duty on employer . if the Bill pass today , it will be a good day , and I hope everybody will be able to support the amendment so that it can pass . Lords amendment 1 agree to . Lords amendment 2 agree to . public Sector Exit Payments ( Limitation ) Bill Second Reading Debate resume . question ( 3 March ) again propose , that the Bill be now read a second time . I call Sir Christopher Chope . Mr Deputy Speaker , I have already finish speak , and I think the Minister ' s predecessor be in the middle of respond . that be entirely my error . I do not have the pleasure of be here for the first part of the debate . I call the Minister . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for raise this important topic . if I may say so in pass , we do not debate today his thought about child ' s clothing , but I be very happy to meet he about that on behalf of my Treasury colleague . my hon . friend and indeed I and all my colleague believe passionately in people keep more of what they earn . to do that , we need to ensure that Government money be spend as if it be our own . we need to ensure it be always spend prudently and deliver the maximum return possible for ordinary taxpayer . it be also true , and I hope he would join I in recognise , that many of our public sector worker be a source of real pride to this country — from our healthcare worker in the NHS to our armed force on the front line and those local government official who do such important work for our local community . their service be pay for by the taxpayer , and indeed they be taxpayer themselves , and all of we seek to take a responsible and balanced approach to the condition offer to public sector worker . we as a Government have seek to do that in every pay round . for the 2023 - 24 round , we accept the headline pay recommendation of the independent pay review body in full for the armed force , teacher , prison officer , the police , the judiciary , medical workforce and senior civil servant . for most workforce , accept these recommendation have result in the high pay uplift for three decade , provide a fair reward for worker and a fair deal for taxpayer and employer alike . exit payment , such as for redundancy , be an aspect of this . they help employer to make necessary organisational change , just as regularly happen in the private sector , and they support individual and uphold employment law as they leave employment . however , my hon . friend be absolutely right that the taxpayer ultimately foot the bill for these individual payment . they can be many time large than average earning elsewhere in the public sector , and it be absolutely right — I hope to have support for this across the House — that we look at how fair and how proportionate these payment be , particularly at a time when it fall to the Government to make difficult but responsible decision about the public finance . the Government share his concern about the overall level of spending on exit payment , particularly the number of very large exit payment make to individual in recent year . that be why we be committed to limit large exit payment and make provision for the recovery of those payment when that be appropriate . can the Minister also give an assurance that large exit payment will never be agree for public sector worker face disciplinary proceeding who choose to leave instead of face those disciplinary proceeding ? can he assure I that no big exit payment will be give in those circumstance ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a doughty champion of the value of taxpayer ' money , and he make a very important point . the commitment I can give go rather more broadly than that , which be that the Government will seek to make sure that any exit payment always offer value for money and that every pound of taxpayer ' money should be well spend . in respond ultimately to the consultation that the Government conduct almost a year ago , I will ensure that the point he raise be fully address . my hon . Friend say that the Government be commit to do something , but we be now in 2023 , and it be in 2015 that the Government first resolve that something must be do about obscenely high public sector exit payment in excess of 95k . in the intervene period , the Government have be all over the place , and I wonder whether the Minister could tell I the result of the most recent action , which be a consultation paper in August 2022 . the closing date for that be 17 October 2022 , more than a year ago . what have happen to that ? my hon . friend make a fair point about the pace with which the Government have be able to proceed . I will write to he , follow his important intervention , with the late on the prognosis for that . I hope he will also recognise that it be not correct to say that the Government have do nothing . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) be , as we speak , lead an important piece of work about productivity across all public sector spending . all my colleague in government be endeavour every day to ensure that every pound of Government money be well spend . my hon . friend will recall — this be why it be so important to get this right — that past attempt have not always deliver the desire result . in 2020 , the Government lay legislation — notwithstanding his own prolific endeavour on this , I know that my hon . friend be not in general a big advocate of the Government constantly legislate — but in 2020 the Government legislate to introduce a cap on payment . that be subsequently withdraw follow unintended consequence , and the risk of override and conflict with people ' s contractual entitlement . let I be clear : my hon . friend be absolutely right in his intention . the Minister say that he will write to I — I always love receive letter , particularly from he — but the Government have know that this Bill have be on the Order Paper . it be introduce in June last year , and in August last year the Government issue a consultation paper and say , " everybody must respond to this paper by 17 October 2022 " , thereby indicate some sense of urgency . what have happen to the response to that consultation ? surely the Minister can give an answer now , rather than say that he will write to I later . as so often be the case , it be sometimes well to be right than to be quick . give that the Government absolutely understand and share my hon . friend ' s concern , it be much well that when they bring forward that response to the consultation , we celebrate . I acknowledge today the first anniversary of the closing date for that , and it would indeed be unfortunate for there to be a second anniversary . notwithstanding that , it be not the case that the Government be not make progress on this matter , and if my hon . friend really support the cause that he have so nobly champion over so many year , chronicle the period since 2015 that he talk about , we must do it right . we be deal with a complex interplay between exist public sector arrangement , consultation with impact body , include the union , and the potential role of legislation . I say I will write to my hon . friend . he will have to contain his excitement as to the specific of my letter , but it will follow in due course . only " in due course " — it be not be promise for next week , even . perhaps it will be next year sometime ? will my hon . friend accept my interpretation of what have happen , which be that we have have eight year since the Government commit to do this , and the score now be eight to the blob and nil to the ordinary people of this country , who be the taxpayer . I will not accept that construction , but what I will accept be my hon . friend ' s entreaty that every day it be the duty of this Government — indeed , it be the proud philosophy of this party — to spend taxpayer ' money wisely . there be many , many way in which we can do that . I have refer to the productivity review by right hon . friend the Chief Secretary . local government have a significant responsibility . local government be not in scope of that consultation , but separate guidance have be give to local government , and it be the duty of we all to ensure , for example , that the many arm ' s length body that be so important to the delivery of government in this country be entirely responsible with their pay arrangement . the Government have also separately legislate and take action to curtail the use of non - disclosure agreement and confidentiality agreement that prevent the transparency of daylight and oxygen intrude into this space , and that be an important measure , too . to conclude — unless my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch want to intervene far — this be a very important topic . the Government and my hon . friend be at one in term of the destination . I understand that he would like more velocity in reach that destination . as I say , not only will I write to he , but I be happy to meet he or other colleague on this important Bill that seek to achieve the right balance of fairness between those who serve our community in the public sector and protect the interest of the taxpayer . what more can one say ? this be just desperate , be it not ? I would say it be no joking matter . we have make light of it , and in one sense , perhaps one of the reason why the blob might respond ultimately be that we be mock it so much . up to now , it have be successful in prevent any action be take on this key policy issue , which be of concern not just to national taxpayer , but to local government council tax payer . there be so much abuse . we reckon the cost to the Exchequer may be as much as £ 1 billion a year . we hear from the Prime Minister about his commitment to reduce the burden of tax and the debt of this country , but why be we not reduce this area of public expenditure ? it be avoidable . we can do it , but nothing be be do and that suggest to I that there be something fundamentally wrong with how this Conservative Government be operate . they be not in control ; the blob be in control . I urge my hon . friend the Minister to reverse that situation so that the government once again take back control . what more can one say today ? I will let the House know if and when I receive a response in writing , as promise by my hon . friend , but I be so lose for word on this that I can only ask that the debate be adjourn . I do not want to put the Bill to a vote . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) debate to be resume on Friday 27 October . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this be a very serious issue , which I first raise in the House back in the summer of 2021 , on 21 June , when I present what be then call the Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill . that Bill be give a short second reading debate on Friday 10 September 2021 , and at the time I describe it as be " about all those who have suffer injury or even death as a result of enlist in the war against covid by be vaccinate . " I go on to say : " there be a lot more damage be do to our citizen as a result of covid - 19 vaccination than in any other vaccination programme in history . that do not mean … that it be not worth while , and I be … not an anti - vaxxer … but what be important be that , if people do the right thing , they should not be deny access to " — reasonable — " compensation " . — [ Official Report , 10 September 2021 ; Vol . 700 , c . 630 - 631 . ] I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his campaign on behalf of so many of all our constituent who write to we express concern about the vaccine programme and , in particular , about the injury scheme . do he agree that it be very wrong for the medium , and indeed colleague here , to castigate campaigner for the vaccine - injure for be conspiracy theorist , anti - vaxxer and troublemaker ? as my hon . Friend say , these be people who take the vaccine in response to a call from Government , and they deserve the support of not only the health service but the Government themselves if they turn out to have be injure by it . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his generous comment . he himself have be a valuable member of the all - party parliamentary group on covid - 19 vaccine damage , and he be right to say that many people — not just our constituent in this country , but people elsewhere — feel that they have be ignore by the power that be . there be a glimmer of hope , in that during the public inquiry into covid - 19 , Lady Hallett , when discuss the term of reference for what be call the fourth module of the inquiry — which will take place next July — seem very much minded to deal with the issue that my hon . friend have mention and about which I continue to be concern . in order to emphasise that this be not just a subject for the United Kingdom , let I mention a book that be publish recently . I declare an interest , as one of the contributor . " canary in a Covid World : how Propaganda and Censorship change our ( my ) World " be describe as " a collection of essay from 34 contemporary thought leader . " in my own essay , I say a great deal about these issue , include about the failure of our own vaccine damage payment scheme to recognise that people have suffer harm and , in some case , bereavement as a result of the vaccine . we could not , I say , continue to ignore these pressure . it be encouraging to learn about all that be happen in other part of the world from contributor in Canada , the United States , the rest of Europe , Australia and New Zealand . I have here a House of Commons Library edition of the book , and I be go to return it to the Library , so if any other member want to have a look at it , they can . I commend my hon . friend for all the sterling work he have do on behalf of the people who have be injure by the vaccine . may I return he to his point about the covid inquiry and what Baroness Hallett say ? I would not want he to give the impression that that mean the Government should be able to leave it to the inquiry to deal with this issue , give that it may not produce a full report for many year . People need compensation now . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should adopt his proposal — which provide for a much short timescale — and get on with it , rather than use the inquiry as a get out of jail card ? absolutely . my hon . friend have anticipate what I be go to say later , namely that the Government need to take their head out of the sand and face up to the reality that this issue will be debate at the inquiry next year . People with the right of audience have already make their preliminary statement . would it not be so much well for the Government to undertake the action set out in the Bill now , rather than wait for the inevitable next summer ? in a sense , the Government have be find out now : everybody realise that , contrary to the impression give for a long time , for some people — an unfortunate minority — the covid vaccine be very bad news . in some case , they result in death and bereavement . the failure to face up to that be at the heart of my concern and lead to my produce the Bill . I be grateful to my hon . friend for sponsor it . unlike many Bills that I have introduce in this place , this Bill have some explanatory note , so people who look at it can see that what we be ask for be reasonable . it do not need legislation ; all it need be will on the part of the Government to act now and do the thing set out in the explanatory note . as my hon . Friend say , this be an issue that will not go away , and it be now very much on the agenda . in the meantime , thousand of people have put in their claim , and those claim be be deal with pitifully slowly . only about half of they have be assess . some of the late statistic that I have get — it be quite difficult to drill they out of the Government through parliamentary question — say that , as of 19 September , 221 claim would have be successful on the basis of causation but fall short because they do not meet the 60 % disability threshold , and 142 claim have be award because they do exceed the 60 % threshold . that be 363 case where it be accept that the disability suffer be as a direct consequence of the vaccine . be it not interesting that of those 221 claim that fall below the 60 % disability threshold , some 116 would have exceed a 20 % threshold ? do that not show that the Government be be unreasonable in stick to a 60 % disability threshold , rather than reduce the threshold in the way that I suggest in the Bill ? in the response to parliamentary question 199355 , which I receive on 19 September , I be tell : " from 1 October 2021 to 1 September 2023 … 6 , 809 claim relate to covid - 19 vaccination " have be make under the scheme , " and 251 claim relate to vaccine for other illness " , include 15 for measle , mump and rubella . I think most reasonable people would say that the alarm bell should be ring very strongly , because almost all the claim that the vaccine damage payment scheme have receive in the last two year have be in relation to covid - 19 vaccine . there have be hardly any in relation to MMR — 15 , as against 6 , 809 — and fail to deal adequately with those 6 , 809 claim be actually undermine the case of vaccine confidence . as a consequence , we be see a low take - up of vaccine . People do not trust the vaccine and do not trust the Government , and their lack of trust be centre around the way in which the Government have respond — or fail to respond — to the vaccine damage that have result from covid - 19 vaccine . this be a very serious issue . this be a serious issue . I just hope that the Minister will be rather more forthcoming in her response than she and her predecessor have be in the past . we have not really get beyond the point of the Government accept that people have die or suffer serious injury as a result of the vaccine . I be sure that my hon . friend will come on to this point , and I do not want to steal his thunder . however , the authority be now accept that people have be damage . they would not be make these payment unless they accept that damage have actually take place . nevertheless , in some case the compensation be give do not cover the cost of deal with the disability that people have as a consequence . give how the Government coerce people into take the covid - 19 vaccine , without particularly warn they about the adverse reaction that might happen in some case , do my hon . friend think the cost of deal with the disability cause should be cover by the Government in full , rather than up to the arbitrary limit that be in place ? absolutely . in essence , that be what the Bill call for . at the moment , someone can put in a claim and it be resolve month or year later . even if they be find to have suffer serious injury , the maximum payment be £ 120 , 000 , which be mean to cover all the consequential loss , the cost of care and perhaps the lifetime support that they may need as a result of those injury . the Government say , " Don ' t worry , you can bring a civil claim in parallel , " but the civil claim that some people be bring in parallel be be frustrate by Government lawyer . in some case , month have go by and then the Department of Health and Social Care have say , " you should be make your claim against AstraZeneca rather than against the Department . " however , essentially that be a claim against the same organisation , because the Government be the indemnifi of any liability on the part of the producer of these — at the time — experimental vaccine . I will quote briefly from a reply that the Prime Minister give to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) on 22 March this year . my right hon . and learn Friend have a constituent who be a litigant ; he suffer four week in a coma and have permanent injury as a result . he have carer , with all the associate cost and loss of earning , and the £ 120 , 000 do not begin to get near the compensation to which he would be entitle under normal circumstance . my right hon . and learn Friend ask the Prime Minister about the £ 120 , 000 maximum payment and about the arbitrary 60 % threshold , but do the Prime Minister respond to either point ? sadly , he do not . all he say be : " we be take step to reform vaccine damage payment scheme , by modernise the operation and provide more timely outcome " . — [ Official Report , 22 March 2023 ; Vol . 730 , c . 330 . ] that be not an answer . it be hardly accurate either , because the outcome be not timely . many people have be wait for more than 18 month for their application to be deal with . there be many hundred of application for which the medical note have still not be receive . the Government , under pressure from I , say that they would introduce subject access request to ensure that people could get the medical note . subject access request have be put forward , but not in respect of every case . a lot of those request have be outstanding for more than three month , against a statutory limit of one month . I do not think that the Prime Minister be correct in say that effective step be be take to modernise the operation and provide more timely outcome . I turn briefly to what be in the Bill , particularly to link it in with the UK covid - 19 inquiry . on 13 September this year , Lady Hallett hold the preliminary hearing for module 4 of the inquiry , which , as I have say , will take place in July next year . the issue of the adequacy of the vaccine damage payment scheme will be fully on the agenda for that meeting in July . at the hearing , we hear from legal representative of some of the group of people who have suffer vaccine damage . Ms Morris be their counsel . she say : " the primary cause of these injury and death be : vaccine - induce thrombotic thrombocytopenia , or VITT ; vaccine induce vasculitis ; stoke ; cerebral venous sinus thrombosis ; and Guillain - Barr é syndrome . survivor be have to cope with the aftereffect of their injury , include brain damage and physical disablement , whilst the bereaved be struggle to live without their partner , child or parent . all VIBUK member have a confirmation that their injury be cause by the Covid - 19 vaccine . " that issue will be debate at the inquiry next year . Ms Morris KC go on to say : " in addition to their injury and bereavement , those we represent have also experience a second trauma : a lack of medical knowledge and understanding about the risk and presentation of vaccine injury have leave injure people undiagnosed and without treatment . furthermore , the prevail institutional mindset within medical body and the government have be fixate solely on acknowledge the benefit of the vaccine . this have lead to those report vaccine injury to feel disbelieved , unheard and marginalise . " she go on : " censorship be a very real issue , my Lady for the vaccine injure and bereaved . their support group have be shut down by social medium platform and their experience censor by the mainstream medium . they have to speak in code online for fear of have their only source of support take away from they . they face stigma and abuse for share their symptom in the context of the Covid vaccine and even be brand as anti - vax for share very real and medically prove vaccine injury . " she then say : " in August of last year the UK CV Family lose its first member to suicide and a survey of their member report 73 % have consider suicide . " these issue be go to be debate at the covid inquiry . why be the Government not do something more actively now ? my hon . friend , as ever , be make a powerful case . have he have any indication of whether in the covid inquiry — or even his Bill ; it be not entirely clear from my reading of it , although perhaps he will correct I — any change should be make retrospectively , so that case that have already be consider , either on the disability threshold or maximum compensation , would be revisit in the event of any change be make ? my hon . friend make a very good point . my view be that the change should be retrospective in relation to those whose claim have already be deal with . the relatively small number of people in respect of whom causation have be establish but the disability threshold of 60 % have not be meet could be deal with in a routine way . there be also the big issue of whether the £ 120 , 000 payment , which have not be increase since 2007 , should be update in line with inflation . when I have raise this with the Minister in the past , she have say she be look at it or take into account the point that have be make . it be a blatant abuse . if in 2007 the Government think that £ 120 , 000 be a reasonable payout , why do they now think that a significantly low sum in real term be appropriate ? the Government be the cause of this rampant inflation , and they be one of the main beneficiary of it , because they be refuse to index tax allowance in line with inflation . the Government ' s coffer be fill up as a result of these inflationary pressure , and yet they continue to be Scrooge - like in relation to people who do the right thing and get themselves vaccinate in the interest of public health but suffer consequence because of an adverse reaction . this be just not good enough . will the Government listen ? that be what I hope will happen as a result of this debate and of the pressure that the Government must be feel from what will happen at the covid inquiry . there be other point make in the submission to the covid inquiry , but what be most important be that Lady Hallett and the counsel to the inquiry have make it quite clear that they will be spend a lot of time look into these particular issue . no long will the Government be able to avoid answer question , as they be able to in this House when we raise question and they can give we non - answer . they will be face the cross - examination of the counsel to the inquiry and be hold to account for their action or lack of action . that be why , although the Bill obviously will not get a second reading , the Government need to take into account and act on the recommendation in it , because this issue be not go to go away . I be conscious that other member want to speak in the debate , so I will just make a couple of other point . if the Government be not prepared to increase the rate at which people can be pay , how be we go to get anywhere ? at the moment , people who be sadly victim of the contaminated blood scandal do not have to show 60 % disability in order to qualify for compensation . should there be some equivalence between the compensation that be payable under the contaminated blood inquiry and that which should be pay to those who have become victim of covid - 19 vaccine ? if we look at personal injury payout under the Judicial College guideline , a 60 % disability be the equivalent of an above - knee amputation of one leg . under the guideline , that would give rise to damage — just for that trauma — of anything between £ 105 , 000 and £ 137 , 000 . the consequential loss flow from that — the loss of earning , the health cost and all the rest of it — would be in addition to that . do that not just show how paltry these sum be ? it make the case for a no - fault system . why be we mess around with try to establish liability ? if somebody confirm as be perfectly healthy have a vaccine and then suffer a lot of adverse consequence , why can we not accept that , in the absence of any other explanation , it must be assume that those consequence be as a direct result of the vaccine ? interestingly , Oxford University ' s Centre for Socio - Legal Studies have describe the Vaccine Damage Payments Act 1979 as a " no - fault compensation scheme " . would that it be . if it be , we would not be where we be now . that be one of the most important issue that should be address the Government . indeed , it be be address in other jurisdiction . let we remember that for year the Government say that these vaccine be absolutely safe and effective — there be no qualification at all . Germany ' s Health Minister say something similar , but more recently retract , say that he have get it all wrong and that although they be safe and effective in most respect , they be not safe and effective for everybody . as a result , Germany be pay out significant sum to people who be adversely affect . our Government need to address this issue seriously and try to get back on to the right foot in advance of the hearing at the covid inquiry next July . so I ask that the House support this Bill on Second Reading . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for not only a tremendous speech set out his inarguable case , but the ferocious and tenacious way in which he have pursue this matter . he be like a dog with a bone , and I be sure that victim of damage from the covid vaccine be very grateful to have he as a champion for their situation . as he point out , I be a sponsor of the Bill and so I support it wholeheartedly . I would also like to encourage he to think about extend about its scope a bit far so that it not only deal with the damage cause by the vaccine , but seek to try to prevent such damage from happen in the first place . obviously , once people have be severely disabled or , as in some case , have die as a result of the vaccine , that be no comfort ; we want to prevent this from happen in the first place and some thing could usefully be do to try to help in that regard too . of course , the authority love to play down the fact that some people have suffer adverse reaction to these covid - 19 vaccine . I be sure many of we have have contact from constituent who have experience serious symptom follow vaccination . I be talk not about a sore arm , which many people suffer as a result of the vaccination , but about a range of life - change condition such as stroke , heart attack and blood clot , to name a few . my hon . Friend mention Anna Morris KC and her submission to the covid inquiry ; as she say , these be not normal side effect that anybody would reasonably expect from a pharmaceutical product . I very much hope that , when the Minister respond to the debate , she put it clearly on the record that she and the Government accept that some people have suffer adverse reaction to the covid - 19 vaccine and , in some case , very serious adverse reaction . in some case , people have die as a result of take the vaccine . this be an opportunity for she today to make that clear on the record for everybody to hear . I can anticipate her speech in some regard . she will no doubt say that the vaccine programme be a great success and that it give the vast majority of people a great deal of benefit . but that be not the point in this particular case , as my hon . Friend say at the start of his speech . nobody be argue about that . we be talk about the small proportion of people — it be a large number of people — who have suffer adverse reaction as a result of the covid - 19 vaccine . that be what I hope she will address directly in her speech . the point my hon . friend make be important . on 1 June 2022 , in answer to a question as to whether the Government accept that some people have die as a direct result of have receive the covid - 19 vaccine , the Minister ' s response be that the MHRA publish a weekly report " cover adverse reaction to approve covid - 19 vaccine " , which be available on a following link . quite . my hon . friend be right , and today give the Minister the opportunity to make it unequivocally clear that the Government do accept that that have happen . that would be a big step in the right direction and would at least give some comfort to those people who have feel ignore for far too long . the authority be of course play down the adverse reaction that people have have from covid vaccine because , first , they do not want to pay up , as my hon . friend have set out clearly , and , secondly , it be they who push these product so strongly to the public in the first place — or dare I say it , coerce the public into take they at the time . it be of course coercion when this House , back in July 2021 , vote to mandate the vaccine for care worker , result in ten of thousand of hard - work carer leave their job . we also come within an ace of mandate the vaccine for all health worker . just think of the damage that that would have be do , with potentially 100 , 000 worker leave the NHS on the back of that . in December 2021 , this House vote for plan b , which introduce vaccine passport for large gathering , among other thing . as we know then and as we know now , the vaccine do not stop infection or transmission . there be no evidence base for the policy . there be no impact assessment do on the policy . thank goodness that that ugliness that we see in this House be short - live . I be — and still be — proud to have be one of the 126 who vote against that mandation . People be coerce in other way . People be tell that they be not allow to go on a flight anywhere unless they have take two vaccine . they be not allow to visit anywhere . in effect , everything be do to force people to take the vaccine . whether that be , in utilitarian term , a good or a bad thing be neither here nor there with regard to my hon . friend ' s Bill . what be here or there be that , give all of that , when people do have adverse reaction to the covid vaccination — in some case , very serious one ; in some case , sadly , people have die — the Government have an absolute duty to pay the appropriate compensation to people when they move heaven and earth to force they to take it in the first place . in some case , they force people to take it against their will — otherwise , they would have lose their job . the Government have a duty to do something here . where we be at the moment be just not good enough . it be worth note how shocking the treatment of unvaccinated people become . our policy lead to untold damage to their livelihood and mental health . friend and family turn their back on they , because of the prevail narrative in politic and the medium that they must be bad people for make up their own mind about a personal medical intervention . I think my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) , one of the great people in this House , sum it up well : " suggest that these people who , for whatever reason . . . have choose not to get vaccinate be somehow deserve of our bile be a disgrace . it do not reflect badly on they ; it reflect badly on we . " — [ Official Report , 31 January 2022 ; Vol . 708 , c . 76 - 77 . ] in black and white on the Pfizer website , one can read important safety information concern the Pfizer / BioNTech covid - 19 vaccine : " Myocarditis and pericarditis have occur in some people who have receive " that product , " most commonly … adolescent male 12 through 17 year of age . " it go on to say that the chance of that occur be " very low " — I be sure the Minister will reiterate that today — but , of course , the chance of somebody of that age suffer serious illness relate to covid be very low as well . the Minister might not be so keen to point that out , and Pfizer do not seem to point it out on its website , but we should make that clear , too . I raise that because — I hope the Minister will address this in her remark — I have be rather alarmed to hear of a clinical trial for a Moderna mrna covid vaccine involve healthy child age 12 and up . that be not something from the past , from during the pandemic ; it be happen now . it have be approve by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency and involve the Bradford patient recruitment centre , which be on the edge of my constituency , so some of my constituent could be involve . I write to the Health Research Authority in August to ask what ethical rationale there be for the inclusion of healthy child in the trial , because it be know , and have be for a long time , that healthy child be at a vanishingly low risk of covid - 19 — they be at the height of the pandemic and they certainly be now . so far , I have not receive a coherent answer to that simple question . but it have come to my attention that the centre have be recruit child for the trial use advertisement that have not be ethically approve , as be require by UK law . child can be recruit to a clinical trial only if they as individual have some reasonable expectation of significant benefit when balance with the risk associate with their participation . potential benefit for adult that may flow from a trial be not a good enough rationale and do not trump that principle . so , give that there can not be any expectation of significant benefit for a cohort of people who be not at significant risk , what be go on here ? why be those decision be make ? it come back to where I start : the authority seem completely unable , and in some case unwilling , to protect people — in this case , child — from potential harm . the cost - benefit analysis , if it have be do — I be not sure that it have — certainly do not appear to stack up . I will finish by commend the recommendation of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch in the Bill . the Government have a duty of care to the people who have be injure by or lose love one to the vaccine , which they take because the Government pressure they into do so . the Government also have a duty to prevent harm from happen in the first place . fail to act on this will only lead to more harm and further damage to the public ' s trust in authority . I hope that the Minister will , in sum up , refer to what be happen in Bradford and explain why that particular trial have be allow to go ahead . during the pandemic , the authority do not go big on warn people of the potential damage or adverse effect of the vaccine ; they be just interested in coerce as many people as possible into take it . they must accept responsibility for those who have do the right thing but face damage as a result . I hope that the Government will put that right today . I , too , thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for introduce the Bill , for the work and research that have go into it , and for his reach out and speak to people about it . at the tail end of his speech , he talk about the phrase " safe and effective " , and I will start my speech there . " safe and effective " become the covid vaccine catchphrase — we will call it that — and it be repeat so many time over that couple of year . it crop up everywhere : in Government communication , in interview with expert and across a media that be only too happy run with that covid slogan — safe and effective . so ingrained do it become in the national psyche that to ever ask question about the covid vaccine become very difficult to do indeed . ask question be a vital part of scientific and political debate . however , when discuss covid , we no long appear to be deal with science — oh , no , Mr Deputy Speaker — rather , we be deal with " the science " . to question " the science " be to risk be call and label a " covidiot " , or that most poisonous of term " anti - vaxxer " . People who just want to query this new vaccine be close down and vilify . I look up the definition of " anti - vaxxer " and be surprised to learn that it be someone who oppose the use of some or all vaccine , regulation mandate vaccination , or usually both . there be 246 of we in this House who , on 13 July 2021 , vote against mandate the vaccine for care worker . that be 246 anti - vaxxer in this House , accord to the late definition . that be absolute nonsense . People be not anti - vaxxer . other people have be concern that family be lose faith in other vaccine because of the way that they be treat over the covid - 19 vaccine . there have be drop in the take - up of the MMR and polio vaccine , which be wrong ; people need to take those vaccine . but all member in this House want to do be to question the new vaccine , and to have a debate on it , particularly when the House want to mandate it for people and for care worker . my point be this : if we allow language to be corrupt in this way , and definition of word to be bent out of shape , we lack the tool for nuanced debate . it be only by have a wide and open debate that we get to the central gravity of truth . we have not have anything like a wide and open debate on the topic of the safety and efficacy of the covid - 19 vaccine . I come back to the word " safe " , which mean free from harm or risk of any kind . it be a word with an absolute definition . it be not to be qualified or diminish , yet we know that , like all medical intervention , the covid - 19 vaccine be not 100 % free from risk or danger . that be why the blue guide , a document publish by the MHRA that give detailed guidance on they legislation control how medicine be advertise in the UK , say : " advertising which state or imply that a product be ' safe ' be unacceptable . all medicine have the potential for side - effect and no medicine be completely risk free as individual patient respond differently to treatment . " that principle be replicate in the UK pharmaceutical industry ' s own self - regulatory code of practice , which also state that the word " safe " must not be use without qualification . on that basis , and worryingly , both Pfizer and AstraZeneca be guilty by their own industry ' s self - regulatory code of break their own good practice . they be find to have mislead the public both by misrepresent and overstate the efficacy of the covid vaccine and erroneously describe they as " safe " in press release and on social medium without qualification . how many other organisation and individual be also guilty of mislead the public in that way ? we be tell that AstraZeneca vaccine be perfectly " safe " — that word again — and that there be no evidence of blood clot . but the advice be change on 7 April 2021 so that those under the age of 30 would be offer an alternative brand , due to the now prove link with blood clot . the advice then change again so that the under - 40s would be offer an alternative brand . a safety signal be pick up and act on — thank goodness — but in Denmark the problem be pick up much soon . it pause the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine on 11 March 2021 , after it have vaccinate 734 , 000 people . at the same time , 24 million people have be vaccinate in the UK , without the MHRA detect a signal of a problem . why be we so far behind the curve ? be it because debate have be close down and people be not allow even to question what be go on ? what about mrna vaccine ? in Florida last year , the state surgeon general recommend against male age between 18 and 39 receive mrna covid - 19 vaccine of any brand . my question be : what evidence be Florida react to , and be the MHRA urgently look into whether we should be follow suit here ? in July 2020 , the Government publish the " first do no harm " report , which highlight significant problem . it state : " the MHRA need substantial revision , particularly in relation to adverse event report and medical device regulation . it need to ensure that it engage more with patient and their outcome . " it also state : " the spontaneous reporting platform for medicine and device , the Yellow Card system , need reform " , and that the " system be not good enough at spot trend in practice and outcome that give rise to safety concern . " what have be do since that report be publish just over two year ago ? have these concern be hear and act on ? Dame June Raine , the head of the MHRA , recently say that the covid pandemic " have catalyse the transformation of the regulator from a watchdog to an enabler " , which do not exactly sound like good news for anyone concern about safety . ultimately it come down to this : the Government repeatedly tell the public that covid vaccine be safe , and for many — probably the vast majority — they be , but plenty of people have suffer as a result of their decision to follow the Government advice and take this new medical intervention . some have tragically lose their life and , as be note last month at the covid inquiry by Anna Morris KC , victim and their family have be marginalise and " face stigma and abuse for share their symptom … and even be brand as anti - vax for share very real and medically prove vaccine injury . " this be really quite unacceptable . it be way past time that the Government do the right thing and follow the recommendation of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch . it have be shocking to hear how slowly the vaccine damage payment scheme have be operate . applicant be have to wait month . we hear from the solicitor Peter Todd at a recent hearing of my all - party parliamentary group on pandemic response and recovery . he describe how 139 applicant have be wait for more than 18 month for a decision on their case . this be excessively long , especially when people be injure and potentially unable to work . we be also tell that 162 claim be find to have have disablement cause by the vaccine , but it be judge that those people be just not disabled enough to merit a financial reward . in many of those case , the decision be reach without a doctor meeting or even speak to the applicant to help with the assessment . in the rare case that money have be award , the payment have not change since 2007 , as my hon . friend have say , so its value have be erode by inflation , which simply be not good enough . in conclusion , I will make a plea for transparency and integrity . it be time to be honest with the public about the safety of these vaccine , and we must start by give they access to information and datum without further delay . we must also , as an urgent priority , look after those who have be damage , or those who have tragically lose love one . we may then begin to restore the faith that have undoubtedly be lose in the authority responsible for protect and promote public health . there be many unanswered question and the repetition by Ministers of those three word — " safe and effective " — be simply not a good enough answer , for all the reason I have just give , so I be delighted to support the Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch . I congratulate the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) on secure Second reading of the Bill . I thank the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) and the hon . member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) for participate in the debate . I have listen attentively to the issue they raise . I will begin by set out labour ' s position on the matter . we believe that the covid - 19 vaccine be safe and effective . it have save countless life , not only in Britain but across the globe . over the course of the pandemic , over 230 , 000 people across the UK die with covid - 19 . therefore , it be important we do not understate that get a vaccination have be , and continue to be , the single most effective way to reduce death and severe illness from covid - 19 . rise — member from across the House will be aware that all vaccine go through extensive and ongoing testing procedure . the covid - 19 vaccine go through multiple stage of clinical trial before be approve . [ interruption . ] the vaccine have meet strict independent standard for safety , quality and effectiveness . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not . order . it be entirely up to the hon . Lady whether she give way or not , but member should not walk into the Chamber three quarter of the way through a debate and then seek to intervene . it be important for I to set out Labour ' s position on the matter . without the vaccine and the work of scientist , volunteer and NHS staff , we would not have be able to end the lockdown and return to our daily life . I be sure we all agree on that . therefore , the shadow health and social care team remain extraordinarily grateful to all those who have work so hard to build and roll out the vaccine across the UK . however , while the covid - 19 vaccination programme have be hugely successful , there have be some extremely rare case of people sadly suffer side effect and deteriorate health with possible link to covid - 19 vaccine . while serious and adverse event be rare compare to the number of dose administer , when they do occur , they can have unexpected and life - change implication . it be therefore right that our healthcare system and this government do all they can to improve the diagnosis and treatment of those who have suffer from this . the yellow card scheme already collect and monitor information on suspect safety concern , and a dedicated team of scientist review information to monitor the vaccine roll out . I encourage everyone to keep use that scheme , to ensure that information can be collect . where vaccine damage tragically occur , it be right that individual and family can access the vaccine damage payment scheme . it be important that that scheme be fit for purpose and that the Government act to make that happen . there have be report of operational delay within the vaccine damage payment scheme . those report suggest that hundred of people have be wait over 12 month for an outcome , with some wait more than 18 month . in fact , follow a question about the VDPS early this year , the Prime Minister vow to improve the scheme , so I will be interested to hear from the Minister about the Government ' s response to tackle those delay . will the Minister confirm that the Government believe that the scheme be fit for purpose and whether they plan to update it ? will the Government assure we that the NHS Business Services Authority have the capacity to process application to the VDPS in a timely manner ? I urge Ministers to meet and engage with affected individual and their family to look at way to improve diagnosis and treatment and at how claim under the VDPS can be address more quickly . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I will , but the hon . Member have speak at length already . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way . do the Labour party believe that the vaccine damage payment scheme be fit for purpose , or do it not believe that ? as I have say , I have ask the Minister to meet member of the family who be directly affect to see whether there be way to improve the scheme , and how that could be address more quickly . that be the good step forward , and we need to listen to individual regard tailor support and where it need to be improve . finally , it would be remiss of I not to join colleague in call out the scourge of vaccine misinformation . get a vaccine be so important , especially for those who be most vulnerable . we must ensure that all vaccine misinformation be debunk , and that the most important message , that the vaccine be safe and effective , be share . I hope the Minister will echo my remark on the danger of misinformation . get a vaccination be too important for the health of this nation — indeed , this world — to be play fast and loose with the fact . although the opposition do not support the Bill , we hope that the Government will tackle the issue that I and other hon . member have raise , and address whether further action be require . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) on secure the second reading of this Bill . this be an important issue , and I thank he for the tone in which he have conduct the debate and for his sentiment at the start , when he say that this be not about be anti - vaccination . as my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) indicate , vaccination be a crucial part of our armour in deal with disease across the world . the Bill be specifically about the covid vaccination and I advocate , as do the shadow Minister , that after clean water , vaccination be the most effective public health intervention in the world in term of save life and promote good health . the flu vaccination , which be be roll out as we speak , will enable many people to be healthy over this winter and avoid hospital admission . the HPV vaccination for prevent cervical cancer , which be roll out to young girl and boy in our school , have the potential to eradicate cervical cancer in future , and we must remember that vaccination have a powerful role to play in the health of our nation . globally , we have one of the good immunisation programme around the world , and it be important to pay tribute to all those staff who take part in vaccination programme and make they such a success . let I turn to the covid vaccination . the UK be at the forefront of tackle covid - 19 through the vaccination programme , and it be the first healthcare system in the world to deliver the covid vaccination outside clinical trial . we should be proud of that . as the shadow Minister say , it be one reason why we be one of the first country to lift restriction , because of our success in covid vaccination . on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) , I be happy to go on record and say that although covid vaccine have save ten of thousand of life , unfortunately there have be extremely rare circumstance where individual have , very sadly , experience harm and difficult circumstance , follow a covid vaccination . thankfully , such case remain rare , but that do not reduce the impact on those individual who experience that and their family . I be sure the whole House will join I in express concern for those individual who suffer such harm , and their family . vaccination remain the good way for individual to protect themselves and other from the impact of covid - 19 . we have do the right thing by encourage people to have the vaccine , to protect both themselves and other more vulnerable member of society . I be grateful for what the Minister have say , but I think that the people who , as she acknowledge , have suffer harm and damage from the vaccine — they be coerce into take it in one form or another — would probably prefer more than just sympathy and concern from people in the House . what they really want be proper compensation . will she therefore take on board what my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) say and ensure that people be adequately and properly compensate for the damage do to they ? will she at the very least ensure that the maximum amount that can be pay out rise in line with inflation ? I will come to those point shortly . all medicine have risk and side effect — even simple paracetamol , which be take safely by the vast majority of people , can have serious side effect for some — and it be no different for the covid vaccine . that be true of all vaccination , and that be why we set up the scheme specifically for vaccination in the first place . the Government can not support the Bill ' s proposal to make provision about financial assistance specifically for those who have have a covid vaccination . the scheme as a whole be to support anyone who have have side effect to a certain level of impairment from any vaccination , and it would be wrong to single out covid - 19 for a separate scheme . the Government already provide long - stand mechanism to offer financial assistance to individual suffer disablement follow vaccination in the form of the VDPS . just to clarify , the VDPS be not a compensation scheme . it be establish in 1979 to provide a one - off tax - free payment to individual who have be find on the balance of probability to have be harm by a vaccine list in the Vaccine Damage Payments Act 1979 . in December 2020 , covid - 19 be add to the scheme to ensure that those who have severe disability find to be link to the covid - 19 vaccine would receive support through this try and test system . the Government ' s current focus be on scale up the scheme ' s operation by the NHS Business Services Authority , which take over its running in November 2021 from the Department for Work and Pensions , because we feel it be well place to access patient note and to improve timeliness . we have see a significant improvement in try to process claim , which I will come to . the Bill also ask the Government to report on the merit of a no - fault compensation scheme for covid - 19 vaccine damage . establish a dedicated stand - alone scheme would risk favour those who , in extremely rare circumstance , have sadly experience harm follow a covid - 19 vaccine above those harm by other vaccine , which , again , do happen in rare circumstance . that would create inequality between vaccine , which could be damaging to other vaccination programme . another element of the Bill be to question whether there should be an upper limit on the financial assistance available . it be important to reiterate that the VDPS offer a one - off lump sum payment . it be not intend to cover lifetime cost for those impact . the amount have be revise periodically by statutory sum order . the initial payment when the scheme be set up in 1978 be £ 10 , 000 . it have be review several time , with the current amount set at £ 120 , 000 as of July 2007 . the award should be consider in addition to the Government ' s support package for those with a disability or long - term health condition , which include statutory sick pay , universal credit , employment and support allowance , attendance allowance and personal independence payment . the Minister say that the figure have be review periodically and that we be now at £ 120 , 000 . she just say that it be last review in 2007 , which be 16 . 5 year ago . do she not think it be time for another periodic review ? my hon . friend make a point . a review of the limit be not just down to the Department of Health and Social Care . I go to a meeting of the all - party parliamentary group chair by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch , where that question be ask . of course , we will look into that , but I can not give a commitment at the Dispatch Box today . we will keep it under review as part of ongoing business and cross - Government discussion . finally , I turn our opposition to adjust the criterion for disability . I recognise that some hon . member who have speak would prefer the level of disability for the scheme to be assess on a slide scale . however , assess it on that basis would run counter to the intention behind it , namely to provide a one - off lump - sum payment . the current scheme eligibility of 60 % disablement be in line with the definition of severe disablement set out by the Department for Work and Pensions in " Industrial Injuries Disability Benefit " , which be a widely accept test of disability and put it in line with many other assessment across the board . very few claim be reject for not reach the 60 % disability threshold , and in the event that an application be turn down on that basis , there be also the option for claimant to appeal against the decision and provide additional evidence . we will continue to review the late datum on covid - 19 to ensure that when decision be review , the review decision be base on up - to - date evidence . when I speak to the APPG , concern be express about the time take to appeal against decision . I have give a commitment that if an appellant have be wait for a significant time , I shall be happy to follow it up if the APPG contact I about any individual case . the Bill ask for an adjustment of the provision on award payment to include all case in which there be no other reasonable cause for death or disablement . such an amendment to the scheme would not be beneficial at this time , because the payment be award on the basis of causation on the balance of probability . as the criterion for the scheme be already establish and be be apply by medical assessor to conclude the remain covid - relate claim , any such amendment would risk far delay outcome for all claimant , include those most in need . a number of question have be ask this morning , and I have try to answer as many as possible . my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) ask about the MHRA . I hope I can reassure she by say that follow the Julia Cumberlege report " first do no harm " , there have be significant change at the MHRA . I be pleased that it review the AstraZeneca vaccine and make two change base on evidence , but I can give reassurance about other medicine as well . the MHRA have have a significant influence on the recent statutory instrument concern the use of sodium valproate , which be use mainly for epilepsy but can cause harm during pregnancy . there have be a number of such pregnancy . the MHRA meet campaign group such as In - fact — the Independent Fetal Anticonvulsant Trust — and as a result of its influence , the SI provide that sodium valproate can be dispense only in the manufacturer ' s original packaging , so that woman be aware of the risk . that be an example of the way in which the MHRA be change . as Dr June Raine say , it be not just a regulator now ; it be part and parcel of the patient safety framework around medicine . I hope that that provide some reassurance . be my hon . friend as concerned as I be that the head of the MHRA have say that the covid pandemic catalyse the transformation of that regulator from watchdog — which it should be — to enabler ? it have shift its purpose significantly . I can not speak for Dr June Raine , but I can say that I take " enabler " to mean " enabler of patient safety " . the fact that , in a number of case , the MHRA have step in mean that it be advocate for patient safety and be not simply a body that process application for clinical trial or run a yellow card system . it be willing to meet a range of group , and indeed I suggest that the APPG invite it to one of its meeting . let I briefly touch on the issue of claim . as I say early , we have move the scheme from the DWP to NHSBSA . the point of that be to speed up the claim , because the limit factor in term of turnaround time be obtain clinical note , and NHSBSA be much more able to gain access to they than the DWP . we have introduce the subject access request so that there be just one consent form to get note from a variety of source , from primary care through to secondary care . to update member on the late figure , as of 6 October , 7 , 574 covid claim have be make to the vaccine damage payment scheme . of those , 3 , 593 have be process , with 149 have receive a payment . on average , it be take six month to investigate and process claim . some will be outside that because of difficulty get their clinical record , but the average be six month . be my hon . friend look forward to the Government give evidence to module 4 of the UK covid - 19 inquiry ? in particular , be she please that the inquiry will be look into whether the VDPS be fit for purpose ? the Government be always happy to give evidence to the inquiry . my hon . friend make a good point . I have have correspondence from constituent and from people around the country ask for the covid inquiry to cover vaccine , too . we have talk today about transparency and about be able to have an open and honest dialogue on vaccine . my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton be right that to give confidence to vaccine programme , people need to be able to raise concern , to raise it when they have have an adverse event and to feel confident that those thing will be investigate and not brush under the carpet . I feel that the Minister be come to a close . before she do , I want to raise the point I make in my speech about the clinical trial involve child and a Bradford patient recruitment centre . I do not expect she to give a definitive answer now , give that I have just raise it , but will she give I a pledge that she will look into this matter , take on board the comment I have make and write back with her thought about what be happen with that trial ? absolutely . I will finish my point to my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch and then come back to my hon . friend the Member for Shipley . it be for the inquiry to decide what it investigate , but it would be helpful for vaccine to be discuss at the inquiry , so that people can put their concern forward and so that we have a thorough look at the vaccine programme . that will enable we to learn lesson for the future , should we ever need to roll out a vaccine programme on that scale ever again . to touch on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Shipley , I work in clinical trial before I come into this place , and there be strict rule about poster advertise clinical trial , particularly for child . I do not know the detail of the particular trial he be talk about , but if he have concern about how it be be recruit to , that be a matter for the MHRA . I suggest that he contact the MHRA , or I would be happy to discuss it with he after the debate . that point go back to what I say about the MHRA move from watchdog to enabler . I would like the role of that watchdog to be look at . I hear that loud and clear from my right hon . friend . I would just say that when advertising and recruit for a clinical trial , any poster — I have not do this for a couple of year now — would usually have to be submit to the MHRA for approval , and it be important to know whether that have happen in this case . we can certainly look at that after the debate . to close , my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch have make some good , valid point about the safety of vaccine and about encourage people to come forward . we want people to come forward if they feel they have have side effect from the vaccine . it help build up the profile and enable well decision - making for the future . he also make point about the vaccine damage payment scheme . we recognise that the process be take too long , and that be why we move it from the DWP to the NHS . we recognise that there be multiple request for access to patient note , which be why we bring in the subject access request form . we want to ensure that those who have , on rare occasion , experience side effect can access the scheme . unfortunately , we can not support the Bill at this time , because our focus must remain on improve the operation of the scheme and continue to process claim as quickly as possible , but I very much welcome the debate today . with the leave of the House , I call Sir Christopher Chope . we have have a preview of the Government ' s response to the UK covid - 19 inquiry module 4 , which will take place next July . all I can say be that I hope the Government improve their performance before then , because I do not think the argument put forward today will be very well receive . basically , the Government be say , " it ' s all hunky - dory . there have be a few delay , but we be sort that out . we be not go to change anything , whether in relation to the £ 120 , 000 limit , the eligibility criterion , the 60 % disablement threshold or all the rest of it . and don ' t worry , the vaccine damage payment scheme deal with other vaccine as well . " that be how the Minister start her response . she say there be other claim be make under the vaccine damage payment scheme , but I do not think she have really comprehend — or certainly do not give an indication that she comprehend — the gravity of the difference . she talk about the importance of flu vaccine . there have be , between 1 October 2021 and 1 September 2023 , 35 claim under the vaccine damage payment scheme in respect of flu , nine claim in respect of HPV , and 6 , 809 claim in respect of covid - 19 . surely the Minister can see there be a disparity between those figure . I do not address the point my hon . Friend make on that . the difference be that around 93 % of the population receive at least one dose of the covid - 19 vaccine — ten of million of people . HPV and flu vaccine be target at a much small group ; they be not open to the whole population . that be why , naturally , we will see few claim come forward . if that be the explanation , I be sure that also cover the fact that only 15 case have be refer to the vaccine damage payment scheme in relation to MMR vaccine , compare with 6 , 809 in relation to covid - 19 . if the Minister think they be all equivalent then so be it , but all I can say be that the evidence suggest otherwise and there be serious question now about whether the VDPS be fit for purpose . that be why it be great news the inquiry will be look into that issue . be my hon . friend disappoint with the opposition response ? they be usually all over real - term cut like a rash . any time there be any hint of a real - term cut , the Labour party be blast about it at every opportunity . on this , we have have no increase in the payment for 17 year — that must be a world record real - term cut — yet the Labour party do not seem to have anything to say about whether it should be increase . I share my hon . friend ' s concern , but that be not the only aspect of concern I have about the response by the hon . member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Abena Oppong - Asare ) . it seem to I that she be still , essentially , refuse to accept that people have die as a result of take covid - 19 vaccine and that many more have suffer severe injury or other adverse health effect . the opposition be concentrate all the time on the benefit of vaccine without seem to recognise the importance of look at those people for whom vaccine be not beneficial . be my hon . Friend also concern that , after I have spend quite a long period of time question the " safe and effective " covid - 19 vaccine mantra , the first thing the Opposition spokesperson say , without any qualification , be " safe and effective " ? the Opposition spokesman be telepathic in the way in which she pick up on my right hon . friend ' s phrase . I be not quite sure whether the Opposition spokesman really appreciate the connectivity between the two . the issue about " safe and effective " be this . I can remember that when I get my first vaccine , the little piece of paper we get say , without any qualification , that it be safe and effective . exactly the same thing have be identify in Germany . it have only be subsequently that we have be get the qualification so that people be now able to make a more informed judgment about whether — order . perhaps the hon . Gentleman have forget that he be now speak for a second time with the leave of the House . this be not a speech , but just a short wind - up . I have indulge other member here in order to facilitate the debate , but we must stick to the rule . absolutely , Madam Deputy Speaker . I certainly would not want to talk myself out of further business today . may I conclude by say that I be most grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) and my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) for be co - sponsor of the Bill and for their contribution today ? I also politely thank the Minister for what she have say and for her willingness to continue engage with the all - party parliamentary group . she come along to a meeting and answer lot of question , and she have volunteer to take forward individual case of people who feel that their question have not be properly answer in good time . Madam Deputy Speaker , this debate could go on for ever . order . let I make this absolutely clear . I be in the Chair : this debate can not go on for ever . I know that the hon . Gentleman be soon go to conclude . exactly . I mean that the debate could go on in the sense that it will still be go in July next year , when module 4 be discuss . in the meantime , I think it would be good if I seek the adjournment of this debate so that there be scope to take it far on another occasion . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) debate to be resume on Friday 27 October . BBC Licence Fee Non - Payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Second Reading Debate resume . question ( 21 October 2022 ) again propose , that the Bill be now read a second time . give that the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who be promote the Bill , have already speak , I explain for the sake of clarity that I be not go to call he to speak again . but I will call the Minister . I come to this debate slightly late , as I be actually respond to a debate that take place almost a year ago to the day . in that debate , my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) make his point powerfully but succinctly : he have just 16 minute to speak . the Minister at the time , my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , have one minute to respond . I will therefore set the context of the debate and answer a number of the point I suspect my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch would have make if he have have long when he move the Second reading of his Bill . just over 100 year ago , on 18 October 1922 , the BBC come into being as the British Broadcasting Company . it be an arrangement between the Post Office and a group of radio set manufacturer to provide radio content and promote the sale of wireless set . it be fund through a 10 shilling licence fee . in 1927 , the BBC receive its first royal charter , become the British Broadcasting Corporation , with a mission to inform , educate and entertain . since then , the BBC have continue to evolve and to play a hugely important role in british life , as it have touch the life of almost everyone in the UK and make a unique contribution to our cultural heritage . in December 1932 , the BBC launch its Empire Service . day later , the service broadcast the first Christmas day message by a british monarch when King George V address the empire live from Sandringham . in 1940 , Winston Churchill deliver his first radio broadcast as Prime Minister . in 1946 , the first combine radio and tv licence fee be introduce , at a cost of £ 2 , which then become the tv licence in 1971 . in 1985 , live aid be broadcast to an estimate 400 million viewer , and in 2007 , iPlayer pioneer a whole new way to watch BBC content on demand via the internet . a year later , that be follow by BBC Sounds , which be a stream medium and audio download service host a range of content include live radio broadcast , audio on demand and podcast . as be note in the brief debate we have a year ago by the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) , last year the BBC ' s coverage of the funeral of her late Majesty the Queen be watch by 22 . 4 million people across BBC channel at peak view time . the BBC , now just over 100 year old , continue to be a great national institution . it be an invaluable source of education , information and entertainment , particularly for the most vulnerable and isolated people in our society , include old people . it be respect globally and reach hundred of million of people across the world every week . no other country in the world have anything quite like it . if the BBC be as wonderful and magnificent as my right hon . friend be tell we , and it provide such wonderful value for money , as the BBC keep tell we , why do it need the criminal law to force people to pay for it ? if my hon . friend will forgive I , that be a point I intend to address in some substance a little later on . he make an argument that many have make , and I understand it . the quality of the content of the BBC be considerable , although I — like everybody in this House , I suspect — occasionally have reason to question it . it be , in my view , still the fine broadcaster in the world , but that be a separate issue from the question of how we pay for it , which be the issue at stake in the Bill . do the Minister recall that in 2014 , while serve on the Committee consider the Deregulation Bill , I manage to insert a new clause that would have lead to the decriminalisation of non - payment of the tv licence ? do he also recall that during charter renewal , the then Chancellor , George Osborne , negotiate away decriminalisation in return for the BBC take on the payment of the concessional over - 75 tv licence ? I recall it very well because I be the Secretary of State at the time , so I be quite involved in that particular negotiation . to return to the point of the licence fee , the licence fee pay for , overwhelmingly , the BBC ' s non - commercial activity . it raise something like £ 3 . 74 billion in public funding every year , with which the BBC have to deliver its mission and public purpose . a television licence be require to watch , record or receive television as it be broadcast live on any channel or online service . in a subsequent licence fee settlement , which be in my second incarnation , it be set to be freeze for two year and then to be uprate in line with inflation . the original charter agreement reach a settlement with the BBC where it be agree that a licence should be require to watch not just live transmission of linear television service but live or on - demand content on BBC iPlayer , mean that the so - call iPlayer loophole be close . as the Minister be then Secretary of State , he will recall that the BBC want people to need a licence to watch all other medium online , include the Sky player , the ITV player and the Channel 4 player . do he remember that we have to defeat that ? it have always be the case that the licence fee be require to watch live tv . it do not extend to the other thing , however much some people might suggest it should . that have lead to an issue that I will go on to talk about : the challenge to the exist model as people change the way they consume television . it be worth note that the licence fee be not just use to fund the BBC . it be also use for other strategic public service objective , include the funding of the Welsh language broadcaster S4C . I spend yesterday in Cardiff , where I be able to visit S4C ; I visit the set of " Pobol y Cwm " , for any Welsh speaker in the Chamber today . I can vouch that S4C do an important job in sustain the Welsh language and be thoroughly deserve of public funding through the licence fee , which be why the Government agree in the last licence fee settlement to a significant increase in that funding . the licence fee represent a significant intervention in the broadcasting market , provide a predictable and steady source of revenue for the BBC . the Government be currently committed to maintain the licence fee funding model for the duration of this 11 - year charter period , which run until 2027 . but as I have already suggest — I will come on to this point at great length — the BBC funding model be face major challenge , and it be necessary to look at way to ensure that it remain sustainable in the long term . the licence fee do not represent the only intervention by the Government in the broadcasting sector . there be a number of other way in which we support a dynamic and successful broadcasting sector and , in particular , public service broadcasting . we have six public service broadcaster : the BBC , ITV , STV , Channel 4 , S4C and Channel Five . only two of those — the BBC and S4C — receive direct public funding from the licence fee . all six broadcaster benefit from regulatory advantage such as prominence and guarantee access to spectrum . with these benefit come obligation with respect to the content that they show and how it be make . the UK ' s public broadcasting system be originally bear of necessity when there be limited analogue capacity of spectrum , but more recently — over the past 50 year — the role have become clear . the six broadcaster complement the free market , produce the type of content that would otherwise be under - serve , such as local news that address community across the country , current affair programme and original , distinctively british programming that shape our culture and reflect our value . it be not limit to traditional broadcast television ; BBC Bitesize , for example , provide an important resource for young people and school across the UK . the UK ' s public service broadcaster complement their commercial competitor by raise standard across the industry , invest in skill , boost growth and take creative risk . broadcaster , include the public service broadcaster , be face a number of challenge due to change technology . just as the advent of cable and satellite revolutionise public service broadcasting , internet - deliver service be revolutionise broadcasting now , create new distribution model with their own gatekeeper . it be tell , for example , that 74 % of household with a tv set now choose to connect it to the internet . that have provide viewer with an enormous amount of choice in what they watch and how they watch it . in particular , the trend away from linear viewing and towards on - demand viewing be continue . accord to Ofcom , in the first quarter of 2023 , approximately two third of UK household be subscribe to a subscription - video - on - demand service . the weekly reach of broadcast tv fall from 83 % in 2021 to 79 % in 2022 , which be the big ever annual drop . this ongoing shift away from traditional , linear , schedule tv view to on - demand via the internet offer viewer an enormous extra range of choice , but it be also put pressure on the traditional funding model and on public service broadcaster . one way in which the Government intend to address that be through the introduction of the medium Bill , which I hope we will hear more about in the King ' s Speech . the purpose of that Bill will be to ensure that the public service broadcaster remain visible at the top of the programme guide , whatever form of tv distribution viewer choose to use , because we believe it be important that the public service broadcaster be sustain . I come to the specific issue my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch raise in his Bill : tv licence for the over - 75 . both decriminalisation of the licence fee and the exemption for the over 75 have be debate at length many time in this Chamber . I understand that they remain controversial and that many people remain critical of the fact that the BBC now enforce the payment of the licence fee for over - 75 who do not qualify as a result of receive a means - test benefit . the Minister will probably recall that I have table a number of write question on enforcement action take by the BBC , and it seem that no enforcement action have be take against the over - 75 . the Minister say in his response that any enforcement action should be undertake with the utmost sensitivity . I can show he letter that my constituent get from the BBC that do not show the utmost sensitivity . another conversation need to be have about how this have all be handle . the hon . Gentleman be right on both point . he be right that enforcement action have largely not be take by the BBC against over - 75 who have not acquire a television licence — certainly no prosecution have yet follow . he be also right to cite our stricture to the BBC that it should approach this matter with sensitivity . like he , " sensitivity " be not the first word I would choose to describe the general tone of communication about tv licence fee collection . this be no defence . we deal with the actual law here ; we do not deal with what might or might not happen . under the law , an 80 - year - old pensioner live on a tiny state pension could be send to prison because she refuse to pay for the untold million pay to Gary Lineker with her licence fee . there be no point in the Minister ' s say , " this be not enforce . " if this law be an ass , it should be repeal . Parliament should not have on its statute book a law whereby someone can be send to prison for not pay a licence fee for an entertainment channel — this be ridiculous . I would slightly disagree with my right hon . friend — [ interruption . ] the law do not say that someone can be send to prison for not pay their licence fee . if they be convict of fail to have a tv licence , they can be fine . where they then refuse to pay the fine , custodial sentence can , as have happen in some case , be impose . criminalisation be a matter we have debate before , but it be still one of great controversy . we have look at it on a number of occasion and I be happy to keep it under review . let I go back to the issue of the licence fee for the over - 75 . as the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) suggest , in the 2015 funding settlement the Government agree that responsibility for the over - 75 concession should transfer to the BBC . the Government and the BBC agree to make that change alongside a number of other element of the licence fee settlement , such as the closure of the iPlayer loophole , to which I have already refer , and an agreement to increase the licence fee in line with inflation from there on . it be also agree that the transfer would be phase in over two year so that the BBC have time to adjust to meet the additional cost of maintain that . it be debate extensively at the time of the passage through Parliament of the Digital Economy Act 2017 . the result be that responsibility for the over - 75s concession now rest with the BBC . the Government make it plain that we hope and expect that the BBC would maintain the concession , but the BBC choose to restrict it to those in receipt of pension credit . the Government remain disappointed about that decision . I recognise , however , that even that concession represent quite a considerable cost to the BBC , and how the BBC budget , and the extent to which it feel able to maintain the concession , be a matter for the BBC . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for respond in such detail on these issue . he refer to the agreement that the licence fee would be able to go up in line with inflation . do that mean that , from April next year , the £ 159 licence fee will increase with inflation or remain the same ? if it go up with inflation , how much will that mean in cash term ? in the licence fee settlement , which be write into the charter , I freeze the licence fee for two year and then say that it should return to increase in line with inflation , but by precisely how much it will increase and when be matter on which the Government will be able to provide my hon . friend with further information relatively soon — that be not yet determined . the requirement be write into the charter , as I say . the Government recognise the importance of television to people of all age , particularly old people who value television as a source of entertainment and companionship and as a way to stay connected . we remain committed to ensure economic security for people at every stage of their life . we believe that the BBC have a duty to ensure that it use its substantial licence fee income to support old people . as the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) suggest , the BBC have inform the Government that no enforcement action have be take against over - 75 at this stage . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) ask about inflation and the income that the BBC need , which be , of course , lead to the end of the benefit for over - 75 , but the one factor that I hope the Minister will not ignore in all this be the number of new house be build . it seem to I that the Government and main opposition party be determined to build more and more house — the Labour party have propose build 1 . 5 million — and when all these house be build , it will mean more income for the BBC . I hope that house building target will be take into consideration when it come to how much money the BBC need . I can assure my hon . friend that those will be take into account . he be right that that be a factor that increase the income of the BBC . however , it have to be balance against other factor , about which I will say a little more , that result from a change in the way in which people access television , which be lead to a reduction in the number of people pay the licence fee . the proposal of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch in his Bill would be to decriminalise tv licence evasion for the over - 75 . it would be very difficult to make it a criminal offence not to pay the licence fee up to a certain age , after which it would no long be a criminal offence . our view be that the law need to apply equally to offender , regardless of their age . it be right that our justice system be fair and just to all people , regardless of their characteristic . the more general issue of decriminalisation be one that we have consider on a number of occasion . in fact , when I be Secretary of State in 2015 , I come into the job support decriminalisation , because I share the view express by a number of my hon . friend . we commission a review of the matter , conduct by Mr Perry , which come out firmly against decriminalisation . subsequently , in February 2020 , when I be a Minister in the Department for a second time , a further consultation receive a large number of response — over 150 , 000 — the majority of which be against decriminalisation . the reason for that be several . the BBC argue strongly that it would lead to an increase in evasion , which it estimate would cost it in the order of £ 300 million . it be also point out that if it become a civil offence , and people be take to court for failure to pay as a civil matter , that could lead to significantly high fine and cost , if they be find guilty . it highlight significant impact in term of the cost and implementation . the current system work relatively efficiently in the magistrate court , but move it over to be a civil matter would result in a considerable increase in cost . for those reason , the Government decide that we would keep decriminalisation under review , but we would not proceed to decriminalise at that time . it be more important that we address the whole issue around the future of the licence fee , which be become hard and hard to sustain . it seem to I that we be effectively in a situation where the BBC have decide to decriminalise for over - 75 but have just not declare that that be the position . that certainly seem to be the case from its action , at the very least . we be in a slightly bogus situation where the law say one thing and the BBC continue to send out letter indicate that it will enforce that , when it have no intention of do so . give the distress of people when they receive those letter , it be important for we to get clarity from the BBC about its position . if people fail to pay their licence fee , it be a matter for criminal prosecution , but as the BBC be responsible for the collection of the licence fee , it be a matter of choice as to whether or not it wish to prosecute . in response to our request that it address the matter with sensitivity , the BBC have assure we that it have not , to date , seek to prosecute anyone over 75 . I want to say a little more about the challenge to the licence fee go forward . when it be review in 2015 , it be recognise that there be a number of drawback . in some way , it be a flat - rate charge for which there be no means - test assistance , and therefore it be highly regressive . at that time , it be conclude that there be no well system of fund the BBC and that it be the most appropriate . for that reason , it be agree that the licence fee would continue for the remain period of the current charter . as the medium landscape have change in the way that I have describe , that have have a consequence . despite the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) about housebuilde , the number of tv licence hold have decline by 1 . 9 million since 2017 - 18 . that be because , probably for the first time , a large number of people be genuinely say that they do not watch live television and that they be perfectly adequately entertain by watch streaming service , on demand and catch - up tv . under the current rule for the licence fee , they be not require to have a licence . on top of that decline of 1 . 9 million , estimate tv licence evasion have now rise to its high level since 1995 , stand at about 10 . 3 % . if the trend take place continue , that represent a significant challenge to the sustainability of the licence fee , and that come on top of the concern about the fairness of the model and , indeed , about whether it be right to continue to enforce it through a criminal sanction . already we have see the House of Lords Communications and Digital Committee suggest that the drawback to the current licence fee model be become more salient . it call for a comprehensive review of the licence fee system . in response , the Government have establish the BBC future funding review , with the purpose of examine the option for alternative mean of fund the BBC after the end of the current settlement . the Minister , as always , be make a very coherent argument . would he agree with I that , not least for reason of impartiality , it would be completely unacceptable for the BBC ' s income to be pay by a Government out of general taxation ? it have always be say that if the BBC be fund directly from the Treasury out of general taxation , that would make it susceptible to political pressure , and it would reduce the distance of the arm ' s length relationship between the BBC and the Government . there may be some truth in that . I have never entirely buy the argument that the licence fee protect it from political interference . it just mean that the opportunity be slightly less regular in that it must wait until the next licence fee settlement . however , the relationship between the Government and the BBC , particularly over the funding settlement , be one of negotiation , and it be right that the Government should ultimately decide the level of licence fee . there have be suggestion by some — I do not believe my hon . friend the Member for Shipley would be among they — that the licence fee should be set by some independent committee or by Ofcom , and that the Government should not have a say . that be not something that I believe would be right . I think the Government have a duty to take account of the pressure on household budget more widely , and the Government be also accountable for that decision . therefore , I see no chance of that aspect change , but there be option that will become available over time for alternative mean of funding . will the Minister give way ? I will give way , perhaps for the last time . I thank the Minister for his generosity . do he share my concern that the BBC be actually use the licence fee to fund some controversial project , which might dissuade people from support the BBC by pay the licence fee ? I be think , for instance , of BBC Verify , whereby the BBC have effectively set itself up as a Ministry of Truth , recently with rather disastrous result . I will take advantage of the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention to make two point . first , he will be aware — and it be a cast - iron principle — that the Government do not interfere in the editorial decision of the BBC . it be not for Government to tell the BBC what they can and can not broadcast , but that do not mean that the Government do not have view . secondly , I will take this opportunity to say from the Dispatch Box that the Government be very disappointed at the attitude take by the BBC to the coverage of event in Israel and Gaza . the BBC ' s refusal to describe this as a terrorist act be something the Government profoundly disagree with . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , while reiterate that we do not tell the BBC what to do , have make it clear that the Government ' s view be that the BBC should describe it as what it be : terrorism . the suggestion that , in do so , the BBC would somehow be in breach of the Ofcom broadcasting code be clearly not the case . Ofcom have make it clear that it be an editorial matter for the BBC . there be plenty of previous example where the BBC have call terrorism " terrorism " , and our view remain that it should do so in this case . rise — rise — I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) , who have not yet have a chance to speak . give that the Government be effectively choose to enforce the licence fee in law by not decriminalise over - 75 , do the Minister agree that the BBC have an equivalent duty to raise its own standard of impartiality and to justify the licence fee ? I agree with my hon . friend . the issue of impartiality be central to the BBC ' s reputation , and it be in the top line of the public purpose of the BBC contain in the charter . it be a matter that the Government have keep under review . when the charter be set back in 2017 , it be agree that there should be a mid - term review of its delivery by the BBC and , in particular , the governance arrangement , which include impartiality . we have since have a number of internal BBC review . in particular , there be the review conduct by the senior independent board member , Nick Serota , which agree to strengthen the impartiality requirement . however , the Government have consider what more could and need to be do . in the next few week we will also publish the outcome of the mid - term review , which will look at this point . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell be completely right that the BBC ' s reputation for impartiality be paramount , in justify the need to pay the licence fee and in protect its reputation , and not just in this country but around the world . we will say more about that in due course . for the reason I have describe , I do think that in future the licence fee will become hard to maintain and that we now need to start think about the alternative . that be link to the way in which people receive television . there will probably come a time when television be deliver exclusively via the internet . that will first require everybody to have access to ultrafast broadband in order to receive it — that be another of my present responsibility — and the technology will need to develop a little more , but we already have internet protocol television become more widely spread . of course , once we get to that moment , subscription become viable . we can not currently have subscription service on Freeview , but we can on the internet , which be why an awful lot of people who have access to that choose to subscribe to Netflix , Disney , Amazon and the rest . these issue will therefore become more important and more possible as we move towards that future , but we have not get there yet . however , the Government have start to think about those option through the future funding review . therefore , while I be afraid that we be not in a position to support the Bill , my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch do touch on extremely relevant point where we think more thought will need to be give in time . I thank he for give we the opportunity to debate the matter today . for 100 year , our country have benefit from the world - class content provide by the BBC . it be responsible for create great tv programme that we all enjoy and for screen the sport and live event that we all care about . but its reach go much far than that , from provide local news to broadcast internationally through the World Service , and from educate our child to underpin creative industry across the UK . the BBC be also the big commissioner of music , and one of the big employer of musician in the country . from the Proms to the programming of Radio 3 , to the world - class musician in the BBC Singers and the BBC orchestra , the BBC be highly regard for its music , both here and around the world . I have raise a number of issue with the BBC about protect the position of our world - class musician , and I think their strength be now understand . the value that the BBC provide be immense , and for every pound put into the BBC , it deliver back £ 2 . 63 of direct economic impact . importantly , 50 % of those benefit be to region outside London . as a Salford MP , I appreciate the work that the BBC do from its Salford base . to fund a universal service with such breadth and impact , some sort of payment model must exist , and for many year the licence fee have serve that purpose . as we have be hear , however , for many over - 75 , pay for a tv licence be a relatively new experience . under the previous Labour Government , the licence fee be cover for that age group , make they exempt from payment . in 2015 , the BBC be hand responsibility for the policy , and follow a consultation with nearly 200 , 000 response , it find that it simply could not afford to absorb the £ 745 million that it would cost to maintain free licence for all over - 75 . as a result , since 2020 free licence be restrict to over - 75 in receipt of pension credit , cost the BBC a small , but still significant sum of £ 250 million a year . for those over - 75 who must now pay the fee , support in make that change have be crucial . the BBC inform all over - 75 personally of the change of policy , run a public information campaign on the availability of pension credit , phase the payment system in , and offer specialised payment plan for those move from a free to a pay licence . decriminalise the non - payment of the fee for that age group be not a suitable support measure . in fact , decriminalisation could make matter bad both for those in that age group , and for the BBC . let I look far at the issue around enforcement that we have touch on in this debate . no one want pensioner to be put in prison for not pay their fee , and fortunately nobody — nobody at all — be imprison for licence - fee evasion in England and Wales . the maximum sentence for evasion alone be a fine , and custodial sentence would be impose only in rare case where a fine be not pay . indeed , as the Minister have say , datum show that there be no over - 75 in prison for fail to pay a tv licence fine , and prosecution of any kind be an absolute last resort , take place only after every measure to retrieve payment have be try . prosecution can take place only when it be in the public interest to do so . as we have hear , under the alternative of the civil system , the enforcement regime have the potential to be harsh . indeed , the current system allow the court to apply discretion by ensure that any fine be within what be affordable for an individual to pay . a fine under the civil system would be fix at a high rate , and it would not be possible to take income into account , leave the most vulnerable at risk of be unable to pay . likewise , the current system mean that over - 75 leave with no criminal record and no impact to their credit score , and never see a bailiff at their door to collect the fine . under a civil system , those protection would be lose . therefore , although decriminalisation may present itself as a supportive measure , it would fundamentally not result in a fair system for the over - 75 . the Minister say that he will keep enforcement under review , and I think I hear he agree that this be not always do with sensitivity . my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) will appreciate that , give that his constituent have raise such issue with he , and I hope we can hear more about that . enforcement for that age group should be do sensitively , and if it be not , we should be do something about it . decriminalisation would also be bad for the BBC — the Minister have already make a similar point . it would send a message that it be okay not to pay the licence fee , and possibly lead to more people avoid pay the fee . the BBC would then be leave with no choice but to absorb the cost by cut programme and service , and reduce investment in the UK ' s creative economy . the BBC have already face a 30 % real - term cut to its funding in the past decade , and must make further saving of £ 285 million a year by 2027 . by far starve the BBC of resource , we would all lose , from the 10 - year - old on " BBC Bitesize " to over - 75 keep up with their local news through BBC local channel . we all rely on the BBC and its continued success . the licence fee model might not be perfect — labour would look at alternative public funding model when the end of the charter period approach — but any successful funding model must be fair and it must ensure that the BBC can continue to do what it do well . decriminalise the licence fee , as I have touch on , be not fair than a civil system and it would come at the cost of substantial detriment to the BBC and therefore to we all . it be on that basis that Labour must oppose the Bill today . with the leave of the House , I would like to thank my right hon . friend the Minister for his comprehensive response to this debate , base on his wide knowledge and experience . it be interesting to see the contrast between his command of this subject and the relatively light touch apply by the Opposition spokesperson today . my right hon . friend really understand this subject and I hope that he will be able to stay in his position and bring forward the medium Bill , follow the King ' s Speech . I hope that we will be able to come back to this subject again , perhaps with a new clause to that Bill — who know ? what be encouraging be that the market be work , with 1 . 9 million few licence fee payer — that be great , be it not ? — and evasion have go up to 10 . 3 % . the licence fee be now £ 159 . I be very concerned that if it go up by inflation next April — it may be 15 % or 20 % since it be last increase — there could be another £ 20 on the licence fee at a time when there be a cost of living crisis . who know ? from what my right hon . friend be say , it sound as though the Government will do something to prevent such an increase take place in April — just before the local election , in the year of a general election — but we will have to wait to find out more about that in due course . in the meantime , let we be grateful for the fact that there be , in effect , a de facto decriminalisation , rather similar to the situation in relation to shoplifting , so that be something that we can take into account . do my hon . friend note that the Minister say that he do not agree with decriminalise it for a particular age group , and that the policy should be the same for all age group ? give that my hon . friend be uncharacteristically modest with his proposal in this Bill to just decriminalise it for the over - 75 , will he reflect on what the Minister say and come forward with a proposal next time to decriminalise it altogether ? my hon . friend make an excellent suggestion . it be only because I sometimes believe in salami slicing . I think that we would start off with the over - 75 — that be without declare any personal interest in this . as with the previous debate , this be a subject that will continue to be of interest to Members , and for that reason I will ask that this debate be adjourn . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) debate to be resume on Friday 27 October . I be sure that the Minister have that date firmly in his diary . regulatory Impact assessment Bill Second read this Bill have not have the benefit of be discuss previously , but I think it be a very important issue and I be delighted that we have the opportunity to give it a bit of airtime . regulatory impact assessment lie at the core , or should lie at the core , of policymake and public legislation . if the tool if a regulatory impact assessment be not properly apply , the quality of the legislation suffer . we have see a large number of example of that . perhaps one of the most telling be that we have legislate for net zero without ever really go through the full implication of what it will entail . I have the privilege of serve on the Environmental Audit Committee . it be willing to discuss almost everything on the environment , but it be not prepared to engage in an inquiry into an audit of the cost and benefit of net zero . the Government should have introduce an audit of the cost and benefit of net zero before the legislation be pass . the same be true of the Climate Change Act 2008 . it be also true of hs2 . there be never a proper cost - benefit analysis regulatory impact assessment of hs2 . more recently , the Renters ( Reform ) Bill — which I see , much to my horror , be have its second Reading on Monday — be publish in May . it be the subject of severe criticism by the Regulatory Policy Committee because no proper impact assessment be produce at the time the Bill be introduce . it be introduce by Ministers who have not go through the process of think through the implication of what they be do . that be what the Bill before we be about . I have the privilege of be a Minister for six year or so — some time ago now , Madam Deputy Speaker — and it be very important , when introduce legislation , to think about the implication and consequence . that should be do in the first instance internally by Ministers with official before it be expose to public debate . a well organise regulatory policy framework should ensure that that be what happen . the Bill be base on the fact that , too frequently , that be not what happen . even more frequently recently than in the past , the requirement for impact assessment to be produce prior to a Bill be publish have not be comply with . the consequence , to which I have refer , be that Bills come forward that be badly formulate and unnecessarily contentious . be it not extraordinary that two or three week back , we have a statutory instrument in relation to the implementation of the Windsor framework ? the Windsor framework agreement be back in spring . we be tell that there have be insufficient time for the Government to produce an impact assessment of its content . how ridiculous be that ? the Bill basically say that we have rule in place , but there be no point in have a command without a sanction . clause 1 set out in plain language a requirement that the " Government must , on or before the appoint day , lie before Parliament a qualify regulatory impact assessment for — ( a ) any Bill introduce to Parliament by a Minister ; ( b ) any draft statutory instrument lay before Parliament by a Minister that may not be make unless it be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament ; and ( c ) any statutory instrument make by a Minister and subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . " clause 2 be the sanction : " if his Majesty ' s Government fail to comply with the duty under section 1 , subsection ( 2 ) apply . " we can not have a proposal require that the Minister be lock up , suspend from the House or whatever , so I do the good I could , which be basically to say that the Minister would be embarrassed into action . that embarrassment will require the Minister responsible for the Bill or the statutory instrument in question to " make a statement to the relevant House … as soon as reasonably practicable , and … on every third sit day until a qualify regulatory impact assessment have be lay before Parliament . " if that have happen in relation to the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , we would not be where we be now , with a totally inadequate impact assessment that have be produce late and much amend ; at one stage it be give the red pencil treatment . my Bill would enable this House , and the member of this House who take legislation seriously , to be properly inform . quite often , it be impossible to get answer to question about Bills ; there be question that should have be raise during the impact assessment process , but have not be raise ; and Ministers be ignorant of the implication of what they be do . that be why I suggest that this be a sensible way forward . I do not often say this in relation to a Bill of mine , but I can not see why anybody would be against it — except a Minister who do not want to comply with the normal rule . this be a short Bill , but I think it would be revolutionary in improve the quality of legislation . this be not write into the Bill , but if the cost - benefit analysis in a Minister ' s impact assessment show that the cost outweigh the benefit , what do my hon . friend feel should happen as a result ? he will remember that when the Labour Government introduce the Bill that become the Climate Change Act 2008 , they have do an impact assessment and a cost - benefit analysis . by their own admission , the cost be twice as big as the benefit , yet they press on with the Bill anyway . be my hon . friend say that where the cost outweigh the benefit the Government should do something about it , or be it enough just to publish the analysis ? I think it be sufficient to publish it . it be then for member of Parliament to look at what it contain , include the cost . my hon . friend and I be two of the five people who vote against the Climate Change Bill on Third Reading . why do we vote against it ? because we could see that the cost would far outweigh the benefit . we have read the impact assessment — well , I can not remember read they at the time , I must say , but I have the very strong feeling that we be enter unknown territory and the cost would be very significant . I be not say that we should not bring forward legislation when the cost be great than the benefit ; I be say that Members of Parliament should be able to take responsibility and say to Ministers , " why be you bring forward legislation whose cost will be far great than the benefit ? " this debate take place just after the Government have change the rule on business impact target , the provision on which have be repeal . despite the Government ' s policy of zero increase in the total cost of regulation on business in this Parliament , the Regulatory Policy Committee , which be responsible for look at well regulation , have state : " when combine with the figure for the previous two year , the total increase for the parliament to date be £ 14 . 3 billion . " that be in February 2023 ; I think there have since be an update . have say that they would not increase the cost on business in this Parliament , and that we would have well regulation and an independent scrutiny process for hold they to account on that , the Government have find themselves on the wrong side of their own rule — so what have they do ? they have decide to change the rule . they be now say that for the last period , they will no long calculate the cost of Government regulation to business . if one start with from a cynical viewpoint , one become even more sceptical after look at the detail . I do not think that , at heart , the Government really want to be hold to account by the House for their measure . they would much prefer measure to be nod through with no question to be answer : they would like everyone to be nod donkey . however , if that be not the Government ' s view , I hope they will accept the Bill . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) on his Bill . as he suggest , it focus all our mind , include that of the Minister , on the impact of the rule , regulation and law that we make in the House . I want to look at the Bill with a view to reform the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 to provide the democratic check and balance that would allow well decision making in future emergency . as my hon . Friend say , there be , from the very start , a failure to weigh up the potential benefit of , for example , lockdown and closing school and balance they against the cost , which have prove catastrophic . robust benefit and cost - benefit analysis should have be carry out , and should have play a crucial role in get the balance right when it come to what rule , regulation and law be to be introduce . whatever view may be hold on such far - reach measure , it should be completely uncontroversial to want to conduct an analysis of potential policy consequence — and expert do predict that the lockdown measure would have dire consequence . in fact , the Government say themselves , in a report publish in July 2020 , that more than 200 , 000 life could be lose as a result of lockdown . cost - benefit analysis , impact assessment and benefit - versus - benefit analysis of health and mental health education should have be carry out , and politician should have carry out a 360 ° review of the lockdown measure . only this week , the covid inquiry hear evidence from Professor Mark Woolhouse in which he describe lockdown not as a public health policy , but as a failure of public health policy . they be , in fact , a failure that could only have be implement under the Public Health Act . do member really want to risk allow such a failure of public health policy to occur again in the future by leave in place an Act that will allow a Government to shut down society without scrutiny or debate — without look at the impact of the measure be take — or do they want to take simple precaution that would prevent that ? if we be be honest , we must conclude that this be not just a public health policy failure , as Professor Mark Woolhouse say ; our entire democratic system fail we , just when we need it most . some of we raise concern at an early stage about the removal of parliamentary oversight , feel that the Government be use loophole in the Public Health Act to regulate without be hold responsible . there be precious few opportunity to hold Ministers to account . in normal time , if a Minister be unable to present a persuasive case for his or her action we have a chance to vote down the regulation involve , but that important due process all but collapse in March 2020 . we discuss this topic early in the year at a session of the all - party parliamentary group on pandemic response and recovery , during which we hear from Lord Sumption . , a former Supreme Court judge . he describe the way in which Parliament have be effectively render impotent under the Public Health Act , which have allow Ministers to avoid the proper debate and scrutiny that we would previously have expect . for example , the first lockdown order be make on 26 March 2020 , but be not consider in this place until 11 May . be it really appropriate for policy that have such a severe impact on every bit of people ' s daily life to be implement without such scrutiny , and some sort of scrutiny afterwards ? the Public Health Act be design to authorise ban on mass gathering , isolate infectious people and close infected premise . there be nothing in it about lock down an entire nation , whether infected or not , in their own home . the Act should be amend to make sure that any future emergency measure be debate before they come into effect . if the situation be too urgent , measure should be provisional for , say , seven day , with Parliament be recall if necessary to give the proper approval . we can not have the threat of such far - reach measure hang over society , ready to be impose by a Minister with no notice , without have to defend their decision at the Dispatch Box . that threat be make very real by the spectre of the World Health Organisation pandemic treaty and the amendment to the International Health Regulations 2005 , both of which the UK will be ask to adopt next May . it seem likely that lockdown will be consider as a public health intervention in future , with the Public Health Act as it stand . we must make sure that we have debate and scrutiny and that we do this impact assessment before lockdown happen again , because they cause such disruption to livelihood , education , healthcare and life itself . we all have constituent with heartbreaking story of not be able to share the joy of a child be bear or not be by the side of a die love one ; of child who now have severe mental health issue or who have lose education ; and of livelihood and future that have be ruin . of course , Parliament must have access to emergency power in extreme situation , but their use must be limit to when they be truly need . surely that be the only way to proceed . we must be able to have scrutiny in the House — it must not be miss ; it must not be avoid . we have scrutiny to ensure that law and regulation be the good they can be . surely this be the only way to proceed without such significant breach of personal life . amend the Public Health Act will help we to make well , more confident decision in the event of any future crisis . I commend what my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch be do about an impact assessment to make sure that Ministers truly understand what they be put in place before they do it — something that be lack during the covid lockdown . I welcome this Bill . in the light of recent experience , it seem to be an excellent idea . it give Parliament more power to scrutinise what be go on . a Conservative Government surely , above all , be about low taxis and deregulation , but unfortunately — maybe for reason beyond our control , and we all know what those reason be — we have have too many taxis and too much regulation . I will not deal in detail with the whole covid saga , because my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) have deal with that powerfully , but the fact be that we all now know that there should have be far more consideration within Government of not just regulatory impact but every other kind of impact . in term of ensure scrutiny of Government , we have the other place , and it do its job . we should be very wary of meddle with the structure of that place , because it seem to be able to scrutinise legislation more effectively than we do in this House . in recent week and month , I have be particularly involve with a lack of impact assessment in term of my own constituency . if we look at all the border Bills and the recently pass Illegal Migration Bill , we can see that some sort of impact assessment would have be very useful in determine whether that Bill be go to achieve what it set out to . I be particularly interested in how illegal migrant be go to be deal with when they arrive on these shore , whether or not the Government win their Supreme Court case . there be an understanding that they will be illegal and that they will be detain , but the Government have now determine that they be go to send 2 , 000 illegal migrant to the former RAF Scampton base in my constituency . we be still await any clear idea of when they will arrive . have serious impact assessment be carry out on the pollution level that naturally remain at this base , which be originally the home of the Dambusters , for a long time be use by Vulcan aeroplane carry nuclear bomb and be use latterly by the Red Arrows ? surely there should be a proper , publish impact assessment of environmental pollution and of security arrangement . apparently , these 2 , 000 migrant will not be detain and will be able to come and go , so what be the security impact on the 700 resident who live there ? interestingly , Scampton Parish Council have put in a freedom of information request to the Home Office about a community impact assessment , but the FOI request have be turn down by the Government . astonishingly — the House will be amazed at this language come out of government — it be turn down with the excuse that the Government need to have , " a clear space , immune from exposure to public view , in which it can debate matter internally with candour and free from the pressure of public political debate . " that be a reply to Scampton Parish Council , which be only try to do its job ; 700 people have put their life saving into buy a house on this base and the Government say that they need a clear space free from public scrutiny . the Minister who be sit on the Front Bench , the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , know all about this issue because he go through all this with a propose migrant camp in his constituency , which be not now happen because it be a victim of the conservative leadership campaign . will my right hon . friend explain what he have just say ? I will not go far into former grief . we be simply say that , when it come to housing illegal migrant , it should be do on the basis of , for instance , value for money . we have conclusively prove that , because there have not be any properly publish impact assessment , it will cost the taxpayer more money to put migrant into the former RAF base at Scampton than to put they into hotel , because a 2 - mile long runway have to be maintain and there be 100 building , many of they list , include the office of Guy Gibson and the one relate to the Dambusters . I have make the point about the impact on the local community . I believe in transparent government and what I fear about this whole RAF Scampton episode be that this be not be do to save money or to look after migrant properly — obviously , it be not in their interest to have 2 , 000 migrant in one place , overwhelm local social service , the police and everybody else . it be be do because the Government simply want to make the statement , " sadly , we have not manage to stop these people come over in boat and therefore we be go to put they in former military basis , rather than in hotel . " but of course this have no deterrent value at all . we can not do an impact assessment on what be go on in the mind of people flee various hellhole in the world , but I can tell the House one thing : someone flee Iraq , Syria or Afghanistan be not go to be deter from come to these shore because they might end up in a comfortable room in a former RAF base . so this provide no value for money or deterrence , there be worry about security , pollution and community impact , and no assessment have be make , yet the Government just carry on . the bad thing be that I keep email , write to or texte Ministers , but I never get a serious response . the parish council and West Lindsey District Council be treat with contempt and give generic reply . as the environmental enforcement authority , West Lindsey District Council put a stop notice on the Home Office a few week ago , and the Home Office simply ignore it and carry on work , presumably because it think the land be Crown land . if the Home Office be a private sector employer , it would be take to court and make to pay huge fine , but the Government think they can get away with it . my constituent and I be victim of a lack of candour by the Government — a lack of proper impact assessment in a variety of field . we have see that with the whole covid saga , of course , and above all , we have see it with High Speed 2 . we need not go on about HS2 , but it be probably the big waste of public money that any Government have ever indulge in . it be ludicrously over - engineer and we be still face the consequence of it . for year , I have be argue for we to have a through train from Grimsby and Cleethorpes through Market Rasen and Lincoln to London , which would cost £ 1 million . I have be tell , " no , no , there ' s no money , but we ' re quite happy as a Government to spend £ 100 billion on HS2 . " will my right hon . friend give way ? I be not go to go on and on about this , but I will give way to my hon . friend if he wish . I do not want my right hon . friend to go on and on about HS2 , but do he agree that one of the issue now be that there be no impact assessment of the revise proposal , and there have not even be a fresh instruction to the Committee of this House that be deal with it ? above all , there have be no impact assessment for the poor people live north of Birmingham who live on the line , whose farm have be take and who have perhaps be force to give up a place that they have farm for generation . I do not think there will ever be enough scrutiny of what go on with hs2 . be my right hon . friend concern at all that the cost go up from about £ 36 billion to — if Lord Berkeley , the labour peer in the other place , be to be believe — £ 180 billion ? thankfully , it be stop , but be my right hon . friend concern that an impact assessment be not do on those staggering change of cost ? it be just amazing how we walk into this disaster : how no one question why HS2 be so ludicrously over - engineer , with the train run far fast than they do on the continent , for instance . before I end , I want to deal with a matter very close to where we be now stand : this building . the whole restoration and renewal saga of Parliament be an hs2 in brick and mortar . there have never be any proper assessment of what we have be do . I sit on the sponsor board and I have be deal with this matter in various Committees for year . I be now on the programme board , which report directly to Mr Speaker . hundred of million of pound have be sink into make ever more complex and over - engineer plan for restore and renew this building . we should just have get on with it six year ago , but we still have not come to a final decision . we be meet on Tuesday — yet another meeting in which we be go to be ask , believe it or not , whether we should have a full decant . I have be argue about this for year . we be still talk about go to Richmond House , if the House of Commons ever vote for a full decant , which be totally unsuitable . we would have to rip out the courtyard and knock down bit of a list building . there would be year of argument , another public inquiry and more delay . this decant will not affect anybody who be now sit in the House of Commons . it will not happen for year , but still we be return to the same argument . the delivery authority keep return to this ; it keep say that it be cheap , more cost - effective , and all the rest of it to have the full decant . however , we have get on with repair Speaker ' s House and Elizabeth Tower , and we be go to work on Victoria Tower . we should just get on with the work . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise the r and r issue . this week , there be a meeting of the Procedure Committee to which representative come along and in response to question they tell we that , if there be to be a complete decant , it would probably take between five and seven year to build the building into which the decant would go , so the work could not begin until 2029 at the early . as a former Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , what I hate so much in politic be that people be so casual with the expenditure of taxpayer ' money . I loathe that attitude . if it be their own affair in deal with restoration and renewal , they would just get on with the job . they would get various estimate and do what be necessary — the minimum necessary — to make this building safe . but because it be public money , we set up committee and create these huge body such as the one run hs2 and the one run r and r , with people pay huge salary and make endless , over - engineer plan . it be frankly disgraceful . do my right hon . friend share my concern that , should the House decant somewhere else , it may be to an inferior Chamber ? it may be not as secure or safe . in such an inferior Chamber , everything we be talk about here — full scrutiny , proper debate and be hold to account — might be overlook , just as how we be not hold the Government to account during the lockdown period , when we miss some debate and some vote . we all know how a Chamber be so important . we see that through the extraordinarily anaemic debate we have during the whole covid period , when there be , frankly , an appalling lack of scrutiny of the Government . the Bill be extremely timely . like my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch , I can not understand why the Government will not accept it , but I be sure that in a few moment this eminently sensible Minister will give it the green light . the Government would do well to listen to the former Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , who I think be in that role for nine year , particularly about how we should well protect and well care about precious taxpayer ' money , which seem to be fritter away willy - nilly by politician across the House — that be not a party political point . I be conflict . on the face of it , this seem like such an obvious thing to do . at face value , the Bill seem to be one of those where we think , " how on earth could anyone object to a Minister have to bring forward a cost - benefit analysis and impact assessment for any legislation they introduce ? " but I be not sure that it be quite as simple as that . I will try to explain why and give some example . we have hear some example , which be all interesting case study about the pro and con of what my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be propose , and perhaps some of the reason why , even if it be introduce , it would end up be completely pointless and meaningless and serve no purpose at all . the first example be about covid , as mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) . she be right to do so , and it be good for my welfare to say that she be absolutely right in everything she say — I would not dream of say otherwise . it be astonishing that the Government not only do not do a cost - benefit analysis of the most draconian restriction on our freedom that anyone can remember , but freely admit that they have not do so . they look at any Member of Parliament who ask for a cost - benefit analysis as if they have three head — as if that be the most ridiculous thing in the world to ask for . of course they should have do a cost - benefit analysis . have they do so , with an impact assessment , they certainly would not have conclude that lock down the country for two year would be a good thing to do , not only because of the effect of lock down school on child ' s education , mental health and all the rest of it , which my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch mention , but because of the impact on the economy . all the problem that we have see in the economy since the pandemic have be because of the lockdown . the consequence of lockdown , and of come out of it , be the main reason why we have such high inflation . all of that be easily predictable , but neither the Government nor the opposition seem interested in what might come afterwards . nobody could see beyond the end of their nose . that be basically the issue : nobody be prepare even to have the debate about what long - term impact the lockdown would have on the economy , on people ' s finance , on NHS waiting time — the list go on . nobody be interested . anybody who raise those concern — even bad , some of we vote against the restriction and lockdown — be vilify for do so . everything that we predict have come to pass , but Ministers be not interested . it be even bad in many respect . the so - call expert on whom the Government be rely , who model how many people would die if we do not have lockdown , and come out with all that absolute tripe at the time , have be give evidence to the covid inquiry . it seem from what have be say that , in all that modelling , they do not even take into account how government advice would change people ' s behaviour without the need to introduce a law to force that change . they have not even look at that . how on earth can we get to the point where supposedly intelligent expert do not even consider the impact on people ' s behaviour of the Government say , " we will not introduce any law , but we think you should avoid close contact with elderly people and keep a two - metre distance " ? in that sense , of course it would be right for the Government to conduct robust cost - benefit analysis and impact assessment when they come to decision . we might hope that , if they do so , they would not come up with such ridiculous decision as lock down the country for two year . that also lie at the heart of my reservation about the Bill , which I relay in my intervention on my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch when I ask whether , if a Government introduce a cost - benefit analysis and the cost be see to outweigh the benefit , they would therefore be oblige not to bring forward that measure . my hon . Friend say that , no , they would still be free to bring forward that measure and it would be up to member of Parliament to take that analysis into account . somewhere therein lie the flaw in my hon . friend ' s plan , for a number of reason that I will touch on . the first be that , base on my covid analysis , the cost - benefit analysis would presumably have be do by the so - call expert , but they would not even have take some cost into account anyway . their cost - benefit analysis would not even have factor in whether or not the Government just advise people to do something would have change behaviour — they have not think about that — so how on earth could they be involve in a cost - benefit analysis ? it would have be flawed in that sense . how much trust could we put in it ? I do not really know . I think that my hon . friend be , in effect , place great confidence in cost - benefit analysis than perhaps they deserve . he seem to be hang his hat on they . will my hon . friend give way ? I have well . surely , if a cost - benefit analysis come forward in one way or another and be scrutinise on the Floor of the House , people could probe it and point out the failure within it . without one , there be no opportunity to do even that . would it not at least be a step in the right direction to make sure there be an impact assessment and cost - benefit analysis , because at least then we could have debate those for lockdown on the Floor of the House ? my right hon . friend make a fair point , but I be not entirely sure that that necessarily follow , and I will give another example as to why . I should say in pass that I can not for the life of I understand why any Minister would not want to do a cost - benefit analysis of any proposal they be bring forward . it seem to I extraordinary that a Minister would want to bring forward a proposal and not say , " can somebody do a cost - benefit analysis of this , or an impact assessment ? " why on earth they would not want to do that Lord only know , but that be a slightly different point . my point be this : what benefit do it have for the decision - make process ? before my hon . friend go on to his next example , may I say that there be no reason why an impact assessment should not look at the behavioural consequence of a particular policy measure ? one of my gripe have be that the Renters ( Reform ) Bill do not give any account of its consequence for reduce the number of people who will be make their house and home available to let . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I agree wholeheartedly . that be why , as I say , for the life of I I can not see why a Minister would not want to do that impact assessment . may I suggest an instance where we might not want to do an impact assessment ? my hon . friend make a good point , and of course the default position be that we should , but in a situation early this year the economy face be grind to a halt because of industrial action — strike — across the country . do he think that sometimes the Government have to legislate quickly and may not have time to go through the process that he and I would normally like to see ? the Minister make a fair point . perhaps it be one of the reason that I be perhaps not quite as persuade as I would normally be by one of the Bills from my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch . I want to come back to the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton . I be not sure whether I could have intervene on the Minister there , but there should have be a cost - benefit analysis of industrial action , so that the public know exactly how detrimental those strike be , particularly on the railway , with the drop in productivity of the whole country . I do not agree that there be time when we should not do a cost - benefit analysis . if I have to choose between the Minister and my wife , I know who I be go to agree with , and the Minister be on a loser here . unusually for I , there might be a compromise option , which be that a cost - benefit analysis should be do , but it may not necessarily need to be do before the original decision be make . perhaps that could be a fair compromise and be consider subsequently . I want to come back to the reason why what my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton say early might not flow , though it logically should . she say that if we have a cost - benefit analysis , mp can scrutinise thing and make sensible decision on whatever . I guess in an ideal world that would happen , but it seem to I that in the real world that do not happen . the House should not just take my word for it , because it do not happen during the passing of the Climate Change Act 2008 . as I touch on briefly in my intervention , when the Labour Government bring forward the Climate Change Bill , they do a cost - benefit analysis , as my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch would have urge they to do . these be not meaningless number — we be talk serious money , and literally hundred of billion of pound be in the credit and debit column on this cost - benefit analysis . it be not one with a few hundred thousand here or a few million there . the Labour Government at the time bring forward the Climate Change Bill with a cost - benefit analysis , as my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch would have want . the original impact assessment show that the potential cost of introduce the Climate Change Bill be almost twice the maximum benefit , as calculate by the Government who be bring forward the legislation . one would think that when a Government bring forward a Bill where the potential cost be twice as high as the maximum benefit , member of Parliament would be fight over themselves to vote it down . how on earth could anybody support such a ridiculous notion , let alone why a government would bring forward such a Bill ? however , on Second read just five mp vote against it , when a cost - benefit analysis show it be a non - starter . what then happen be that Lord Lilley — at that time he be my right hon . friend the Member for Hitchin and Harpenden — kick up a fuss . I must add that during the passage of the Bill the potential cost barely come up — none of the Front Benchers from any party raise the cost , even though it be go to be hundred of billion of pound . however , Lord Lilley seize on the fact that the cost be twice the benefit and ask how on earth that could be , so the Government go away with a flea in their ear . but — would you believe it , Mr Deputy Speaker ? — they come back have recalculate the cost - benefit analysis and have discover hundred of billion of pound of new benefit that they have not identify when the Bill start its passage through this place . it be miraculous that they find hundred of billion of pound of benefit that they have not even think about . either we should believe they be utterly incompetent and have not fully think through the implication of their Bill before they bring it forward , or , if we be more cynical — I probably fall into that camp — we might believe they redo the figure and come back with some dodgy figure to make it look as if the Bill have a great benefit than cost . I be not sure the Bill succeed on any level . the Climate Change Act 2008 show I two thing . first , the Government will come back with any figure they want just to prove there be a big benefit than cost , even if that be dubious , to say the least . secondly , member of Parliament be not even interested in cost - benefit analysis . if they be , more than five of we would have vote against the Bill on Second Reading . I be not be funny , Mr Deputy Speaker , but if you go into the voting Lobby and ask people what we be vote on , half the time they do not know , let alone know the cost - benefit analysis of what they be vote on , so I be not sure that a cost - benefit analysis would serve the purpose that my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch think it would . therefore , I think the Climate Change Act 2008 represent an argument against his Bill . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough be absolutely right to mention a third Bill , which be about hs2 . everybody have know for year that HS2 be a catastrophic waste of money that be not even intend to benefit the north . history have be rewrite to say that it be go to be some great thing to benefit the north . the last Labour Government envisage hs2 in order to try to reduce short - haul flight from Leeds Bradford and Manchester airport to Heathrow . it be never intend to benefit the north — that be not the purpose of hs2 . history be rewrite and if we listen to Andy Burnham it be go to be the saviour of the north . what an absolute load of tripe . the cost go up and up . as my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton say , it go from £ 37 billion until it eventually get to £ 180 billion , and pretty much all the people who be argue for it when it be £ 37 billion be still argue for it when it be £ 180 billion . in many regard , the only person to have a sensible approach to HS2 , in term of cost - benefit analysis , have be the Prime Minister . he say , not unreasonably , that he support hs2 when the cost be £ 37 billion , but he could not support it when the cost reach £ 180 billion . that be a sensible decision for somebody to make , have look at a cost - benefit analysis . the Leader of the Opposition will not be interested in a cost - benefit analysis — he oppose hs2 when it be £ 37 billion and support it when it be £ 180 billion . how on earth be we expect to make sense of that ? the decision making be absolutely ludicrous . politician do not tend to make logical or financially sensible decision ; they make political decision . they be not really interested in the cost - benefit analysis . they be interested in what it might look like in a headline in a paper , or in a campaign in a by - election . in many respect , the reason why HS2 go against what my hon . friend be try to achieve here be that actually the Government have do a cost - benefit analysis of hs2 . they just keep it quiet , because it do not deliver what people want it to deliver . Andrew Gilligan , who be the transport adviser when Boris Johnson be Prime Minister , reveal that , even before the late increase in cost , the Treasury ' s cost - benefit analysis have show that for every pound spend on hs2 , it would deliver only a 90p return . although that be the Government ' s official cost - benefit analysis , they be still press ahead with it at the time , until the cost become even more astronomical . although my hon . friend be right that cost - benefit analysis should be at the forefront of decision making by Government and by member of Parliament when they be scrutinise legislation , I just wonder , really and truly , how often people care that much about it . I can only conclude that they do not really care that much at all . go back to the HS2 example , I be one of those support the objector who want more of the track to go in tunnel . I be support they because I think that it would push up the cost so much that the project would become unviable . that never materialise . essentially , though , be my hon . friend not argue for additional impact assessment during the course of the project ? my hon . friend be highlight how shrewd a politician he be and what shrewd decision - make skill he have . ultimately , he be successful in get the project stop , but I can not speculate on whether that be due to the number of tunnel . however , perhaps he help , and more power to his elbow , because in place like Shipley we support the Prime Minister in want well connectivity across the north . the bit that work be north to south ; it be across the north that it do not work , and the Prime Minister be absolutely right to focus his money on that . whether it be down to the cost of the tunnel , I do not know , but it can not have do much harm . finally , the other element of the Bill that I be nervous about , even though it be logical , be how much extra power it give to what my hon . friend describe in a previous debate today as " the blob " . if we be to be , in effect , govern by cost - benefit analysis in the way that he envisage and in the way that I would like thing to be do , I do not think that it be beyond anybody ' s imagination that the civil service would , if it be particularly keen on the Government adopt a policy , miraculously produce figure that show a tremendous benefit and not much of a cost . I be pretty sure that it be not beyond people ' s imagination to think that , be the blob , as he describe it early , particularly determined to block a proposal from the Government , its advice to the Government would be that the cost far exceed the benefit . I be rather nervous about give civil servant more power over government decision than they already have . I think the hon . Member raise that point early in his remark . I be sure that he be aware that whatever figure the Government produce , they be then scrutinise by an independent body , the Regulatory Policy Committee , to make sure that those figure hold water . be he not reassure by that ? no , I be not . I know the Minister well — he be a very good man — and I know he would not be sway by what the blob be try to tell he to do or not do . he be a man of his own mind and a very talented Minister , and I have no doubt about his decision - make skill . however , I be afraid that the idea that I should be reassure at the Government , in effect , hand over more decision making to some unelected body of the great and the good of the elite , and that I should put all my trust in they , do not give I any reassurance . to be perfectly honest , it somewhat horrify I that the Government be farm out these thing to the great and the good of the establishment . I be rather confused by my hon . friend ' s speech . normally , he be a sunny chap who look on the positive side of life , but from what he be say , it do not matter whether or not we have a serious impact assessment and whether or not it be work on , because government of all persuasion at all time be so hopeless that nothing be ever go to improve , and we be go to have as many cock - up in the next 100 year as we have have in the last 100 year . be that really what he be say ? I think that be a pretty fair summary . if my right hon . friend want I to give a summary , that be not far off the mark . yes , I be pretty sure that that will be the case . I be afraid to say that , frankly , that be not go to change until member of Parliament raise their game , to be perfectly honest . I be not particularly pin the blame on the Government . they do their thing and their job be to get through what they want to get through . the people who should be hold the Government to account be we — those on these Back Benches and on the Opposition Benches . our solemn duty be to hold the Government of the day to account , yet my point be that we be absolutely hopeless at do so . as I have say , during the passage of the Climate Change Act , nobody be interested in the cost - benefit analysis . they be just vote for it like sheep because they think it would be popular , or because there have be an email campaign encourage they to do so . they be not do the job they be pay to do , which be to scrutinise the legislation . this come back to the other flaw in the Bill . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch say that the Government should have to bring forward a cost - benefit analysis , and member of Parliament could then scrutinise it and make a decision . I have to say to he that , if the Government refuse to bring forward an impact assessment or cost - benefit analysis , member already have the power to say , " actually , we ' re not go to support this until you do bring forward a cost - benefit analysis . " the solution to the problem he be seek to solve already lie in the hand of member on the Back Benches and on the Opposition Benches if they be simply prepared to assert themselves and make it clear to Ministers , " we ' re not just go to rubber - stamp something because you tell we it ' s a good thing to do . until you bring forward the evidence that show it ' s a good thing to do , we ' re not go to support it . " how many time do Members of Parliament ever say that to the Government ? they do not say that ; they just nod and go along with it . I do not think the Government be actually the big problem . I think it be member of Parliament on the Back Benches and on the Opposition Benches who be the big problem , because we do not need this legislation . member of Parliament should assert themselves and force Ministers to do this anyway . a cost - benefit analysis bring forward by the Government in effect amount to Ministers mark their own homework in that , when they bring forward a Bill , they also bring forward the cost - benefit analysis . I be not persuade at all by the Minister that some body of the great and the good be rubber - stamp what the Government have come up with , no doubt after be appoint by the Government to do that job . what use be that ? we want people who have not be appoint by the Government to scrutinise the Bill , not people who have be appoint by they . of course , we know that this be the case because it go back to what George Osborne say at the time he set up the Office for Budget Responsibility . the reason he set it up , as colleague will remember , be that he be feed up of the previous Government come up with bogus forecast to justify their policy and decision at Budgets and autumn statement . they have , in effect , manipulate the figure to stick within the arbitrary rule they have set for themselves , which they then perhaps no long want to keep . they be in charge of the forecast and the figure , and they manipulate the figure for their own political advantage . George Osborne ' s state reason for introduce the Office for Budget Responsibility be , in effect , that the Treasury could not be trust to come up with honest figure that we could all rely on , all the figure be dodgy and we need an independent body to do it . if the Bill pass and my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch say , " I want the Minister to come up with a cost - benefit analysis , " all we be do be hand the cost - benefit analysis to the Treasury , which previous Chancellors have say can not be trust to come up with accurate forecast and figure . I be not entirely sure what use it would be to the decision - make process if we ever get to the point where a Member of Parliament be actually interested in what the cost - benefit analysis say . I feel slightly conflicted . on the basis of what my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch and my right hon . friend the Members for Tatton and for Gainsborough say , this seem , at face value , a very obvious , simple thing to do . I repeat that I can not understand why any Minister who want to make decision would not want to go through this process . but I fear that , despite the good intention of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch , it would not deliver the outcome that he seek or , in the end , particularly improve decision making in this House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for introduce this Bill . this have be a wide - range debate that have cover a whole range of topic , but it be , at heart , about accountability for government decision , and it be clear that there be concern about that . it be worth draw the House ' s attention to the report of the House of Lords Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee of 10 October 2022 , entitle " Losing impact : why the Government ' s impact assessment system be fail Parliament and the public " . I know that mind be probably elsewhere around that time last year , but it be a very important report , and it draw on many of the point that have be raise today . the executive summary of the report say : " in 2017 , we note that there have be some improvement in the quality of Impact Assessments ( IA ) provide with secondary legislation . unfortunately , this improvement have not survive the dual challenge of Brexit and the pandemic , during which time the speed of legislate mean that corner be cut . we have hope that the return to more normal working would provide an opportunity not just to reinstate the previous IA system but to improve it : this have not happen . " to pick up on the point raise by the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , as the shadow Health Minister at the time I spend an awful lot of day on the Committee corridor opposite the right hon . member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) . unfortunately , he be not here now , but I be sure he will recall fondly a number of occasion on which we draw to his attention the fact that many of the regulation introduce under the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 have no impact assessment and very little information to back up the decision that have be make . we understand at the start of the pandemic why that be not always possible , but as time move on , it feel that that be a pattern that do not have any justification . this matter be not limit to public health regulation . do the hon . Member agree that we need to change the 1984 Act so that we do not bypass the House and go into lockdown without full scrutiny by all member of this House ? I would like to wait and see what the inquiry say about the way that that be handle . an awful lot of evidence have be give about government decision make at the time , which it make clear be less than ideal . it be probably good for we to wait and see what come out of the inquiry on how we as a Parliament can well deal with these issue in future . hopefully that situation will never repeat itself , but the hon . member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) make the point that the solution to many of these challenge lie in member robustly challenge Government when opportunity arise . the House of Lords Committee say that an impact statement " should not just be treat as an item on a ' to do ' list but be an integral part of the policy formulation process … one of our major concern be that ia which be publish late , or that appear to have be scramble together at the last minute to justify a decision already take , may undermine the quality of the policy choice that underpin the legislation . " again , that theme have be pick up in the debate . reflect on that particular statement , do the hon . Gentleman think his party be wrong to call for long lockdown on the basis of no evidence in cost - benefit analysis ? that be a bit rich from a Minister of a Government who do not introduce any impact assessment when they first bring in the lockdown or various restriction . I can recall on numerous occasion ask Ministers why people be limited to be in group of six or why pub have to close at 10 o ' clock . we never get a satisfactory answer to any of those question , so for the Government to try to put that on we be a little rich . the hon . Member have just say to the House that he do not have sufficient answer for the rule of six and the 10 pm curfew . do he not think it curious that member , except for a handful of we here , still vote for they ? even he go along with it and vote for they . we be not go to relitigate the entire pandemic here , but it be very important to say that the Opposition ' s position be to support the Government in try to get on top of the pandemic . I think it be fair to say that , while we do that , we be concern there be not always the evidence to support some of the Government ' s policy . we take it on trust that they have those conversation with the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies and so on , but again , I think those thing — the level of detail and the consideration take before recommendation come forward — will come out during the inquiry . to pick up on another point from the Lords Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee recommendation , it say : " our concern be that the number of qualifying instrument which have not follow the IA " — impact assessment — " procedure have increase and , give that no sanction appear to be apply where a department fail to comply , there would seem to be little incentive for department to improve . " obviously , the Bill would create an incentive in the sense of bring a Minister here every three day to answer for the lack of an impact assessment when one be not produce . as much as I enjoy see the Minister , I do not think it would be a particularly good use of parliamentary time to have he come here every three day to explain why an impact assessment have not be prepare . it would probably create an unnecessary pressure to produce one in a rush manner that might not actually be fit for purpose . on that point , the Minister refer to the Regulatory Policy Committee , which do a kind of audit of impact assessment . it have say itself that around a quarter of all impact assessment be not fit for purpose . if we be to rely on the RPC for approval of the way impact assessment be deliver , we ought to listen to its recommendation a little bit more . they be not always as glow as we would like . I will not detain the House any long , but some important point have be raise . on the hon . member ' s last point , if he accept that the system be not work , what do he think should be the sanction for fail to ensure that it do work ? the answer lie in member ' own hand . it be up to Parliament itself to object to or vote against legislation if it do not think the impact assessment support the policy direction . the power have always be there . member can turn up to any secondary legislation Committee if they wish to . I understand the thrust of what the hon . Member be say with this private Member ' s Bill , but I be not quite sure it be the right method to deliver it . what need to happen be for the Government to instil from day one a commitment to evidence - base decision making . there have , I be afraid , be too many example recently where that have not happen . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) on his important Bill . I very much agree with his sentiment about ensure that we have good financial justification for our policy as soon as they be introduce to this House , although — as I say in an intervention on my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) — I think there be occasion on which we must be able to set those thing aside . what my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch seek to do through his Bill be to formalise a process that should happen anyway , by make impact assessment a statutory requirement as soon as primary or secondary legislation be introduce . currently , this be a process that happen through collective agreement . as I always do when speak in this House , I will try to put myself in the shoe I be in when I be in business . this place be not always that businesslike ; I think it should be more businesslike . when someone in business be about to spend some money or invest in a new policy area , they will look at the cost and benefit of the intervention they be likely to make . however , I do not think that any business will simply bind itself to its own process . this legislation be itself a form of regulation , so I think it be right that we look at outcome rather than process . the Government be strongly committed to ensure proper assessment of our policy , assess the impact and seek to ease the burden . that be the principle behind my hon . friend ' s Bill . on my travel around the business community , I talk to many business . the principal issue raise by small and medium - sized enterprise be access to finance , but for the large business operate in our economy , which be clearly hugely important , the principal concern be about the impact of regulation and sometimes about the slowness of the regulatory framework ; I will come on to that point in a second . importantly , we be make change right now that I think my hon . friend will approve of and that will meet his objective . there have be much speculation about the role of Parliament . my hon . Friend ask whether we be simply nod donkey . he certainly be not one , and neither be anybody who have speak in this debate . parliamentarian across the House can always make change if they can apply enough pressure to the Government of the day . in my seven and a half year on the Back Benches , I certainly do not feel that I be a nodding donkey . my hon . friend want impact assessment to be carry out prior to legislation even be table . he be absolutely right . that point feed into something even more important , which be that we will ensure we introduce only legislation that be fit for purpose and will have a positive effect on our economy . with the well regulation framework we be introduce , our intention be that consideration of the impact assessment and the cost - benefit analysis will happen even before the legislation have be draft . that be the principle . before a Department decide to legislate , it must first consider other route that would achieve the same end . if it ultimately decide to legislate in a certain area , a key moment be the write - round , which be where a Minister or Secretary of State write to other Departments to say that they want to legislate . at that point , the impact assessment should be make available to other Ministers . hopefully , that will prevent unnecessary legislation result from other measure be bring forward that would have the same effect . I think our recent reform to the well regulation framework meet the intent of my hon . friend ' s Bill . I do not want to put word in his mouth , but I be sure he agree that the intent be to reduce business burden . reduce burden on business mean supply - side reform and more competition , and we know that more competition be the good regulator . we be focus on three thing within the framework . the first be the exist stock of regulation on our statute book ; the second be the flow of new regulation and the need to ensure that anything we introduce have the right purpose and the right effect ; and the third , which have not really be discuss in today ' s debate , be regulatory practice . what do our regulator actually do in practice when they be carry out their regulatory duty ? on the exist stock of regulation , for the purpose of the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 , we have be hunt out bit of regulation that can be remove or amend now that we have the ability to amend what be previously EU requirement . however , the programme cover a wide area than retain EU law ; we be look for other area in which we can streamline regulation . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) be right to say that , as a Conservative Government , we should be in favour of low tax and low regulation , and that be certainly our intention . my right hon . Friend refer extensively to his local RAF base , and we have have many discussion about that because we have have similar experience over the last couple of year . he may be reassure to know that future impact assessment will look beyond purely economic impact , and may include some of the measure to which he allude . we have already reform or revoke more than 1 , 000 piece of legislation , and 1 , 000 more reform and revocation be under way . we have , for instance , either reform or revoke 500 measure in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 and the Procurement Bill . we have also consult on reform retain EU employment law , such as the work time directive recording requirement and wine sector reform , and consultation be currently take place on the product safety review and the fire safety of domestic upholstered furniture . the latter two consultation will future - proof our approach to product regulation , alongside our proposal to extend recognition of the CE mark indefinitely . a number of observation have be make about the work of parliamentarian and its effect on regulation . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Members for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) and for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on their work on the taskforce on innovation , growth and regulatory reform , which make 69 recommendation for the easing or simplification of regulation . we have already implement 10 of those recommendation , and be in the process of implement a further 49 . they involve key issue such as grid connection and reform of our clinical trial process . we have simplify or scrap many other regulation . our reform of the nutrient neutrality rule will potentially release 150 , 000 previously stall home into the marketplace . the reform of the GDPR requirement will save business about £ 1 billion , and the reform of the work time directive recording requirement will have similar benefit . there be also pension and Solvency II reform and change , the setting aside of the requirement for small and medium - sized enterprise to provide insurance cover and audit account when bid for public sector contract in advance of those contract — that should make it much easy for sme to secure such contract — and change relate to gene editing , holiday requirement and list rule for the London Stock Exchange . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch mention the increase in the number of burden place on business over the last few year . I can not comment on the figure that he mention — I think it be £ 14 billion — but regulation do , of course , have its purpose at time . we can not have clean river without regulation . however , I be happy to write to my hon . friend . I think he might also mention smart meter , which be include in those figure , because I have hear he mention they in the Chamber before . as we know , the roll - out of smart meter be important to reduce energy use . we have also reform measure on climate - relate reporting in large company , the energy efficiency of building and electric vehicle charging , so that we can have charge station all around the country . I declare my interest here : as an electric vehicle driver for the past six and a half year , I welcome that , because I know all about range anxiety . the telecom measure relate to national security — that alone be £ 2 . 4 billion — result from concern raise in the House the security threat from foreign actor . to complement the work that we be do on the exist stock of regulation , we be work on control the flow of new regulation . the well regulation framework , about which I will say more shortly , have be reform to make it more effective at put a downward pressure on that flow . back in the dim and dark past — when David Cameron be Prime Minister , I think — the Government introduce a " one in , one out " rule for regulation , and then increase that to a " one in , two out " rule . do that still apply to the Government ? no , that do not currently apply to the Government . as I say , there be reason why we regulate , and I have point out some of those reason ; I be very happy to write to my hon . friend regard some of the reason we do need to regulate . that be not necessarily the right way to go about it : look at cost and benefit across the piece be important . in his speech , which I listen to very carefully , he cast some doubt on our ability to properly analyse cost and benefit , so I think it be right that we look at this issue across the piece . our policymaking should be more nuanced than that . I have mention the landscape of regulator . the third important part of our smart regulation agenda relate to ensure we have a well - function landscape of independent regulator . these have a significant footprint on the economy , and it be essential that they work well for the United Kingdom . they should operate in an agile and outcome - drive fashion , help to drive economic growth while protect consumer and ensure that market work as well as they can . we have launch a series of consultation aim at improve the outcome that independent regulation deliver , include a strategic steer for the Competition and Markets Authority and a strategy and policy statement for energy regulation . we have also publish finding of an independent review into the Civil Aviation Authority as part of the Cabinet Office ' s public body review programme . most recently , we consult on extend the exist growth duty to Ofgem , Ofcom and Ofwat . we have launch a call for evidence on the regulatory landscape as a whole , seek view from business , consumer and regulator on what work well and what could be improve on to deliver for the sector they serve . that call for evidence also seek view on any further step we can take to reform the stock of regulation to remove unnecessary burden , so I can assure my hon . friend the Member for Shipley that this Government be completely committed to do everything possible to keep the impact on business to an absolute minimum . those impact assessment play a key role when it come to control the flow of new regulation . they set out the conclusion of evidence - base process and procedure that assess the economic , social and environmental aspect of public policy for business and wide society . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch mention some of the legislation that have not necessarily be accompany by an impact assessment . he may want to ask question of the different Ministers responsible for the policy area concern : net zero , HS2 , and renter ' reform . for something as strategic as net zero , for example , it be hugely complex to identify both cost and benefit : there be some thing that we simply do not know . while listen to my hon . friend speak about those issue , a famous quote from the former chinese Premier Zhou Enlai come to mind : in 1972 , he be ask about the impact of the french revolution , and he say , " it ' s too early to tell . " there be so many thing that we just do not know , which I think be a point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Shipley . as I use to say in our boardroom , " you can make anything look good on a spreadsheet " , so we have to cast a critical eye over any cost - benefit analysis . the other thing I would say about more parliamentary scrutiny be that we hear from business all the time that they be cry out for we to get on and deliver certain key infrastructure project , so I do not think it would be helpful to extend the time they take to deliver . one example be the East Anglia pylon project , which be 112 mile of electricity cable go through the east of England . I realise that that project be very controversial , but stop these thing from happen have a cost to business , too . there be different dynamic go on in this conversation . impact assessment have evolve into an important and valuable component of the UK ' s well regulation system . they have add transparent accountability to the work of support policy development . as I have say , independent scrutiny by the Regulatory Policy Committee should offer some reassurance to Ministers , parliamentarian and other stakeholder that the impact have be consider rigorously . the UK ' s approach be already highly regard internationally , and we continue to score highly in impact assessment and post - implementation review compare with the other 38 OECD member . we should be justifiably proud of our world - lead reputation in this area . the reform to the well regulation framework deliver on the intent set out in May in the " Smarter regulation to grow the economy " document , and will put downward pressure on the flow of new regulation . the reform require policymaker across Government to think even more carefully about alternative approach , before conclude that regulation be the good answer . they will also encourage impact assessment , support proposal to focus on a wide range of impact than be the case under the old system that have a narrow focus on impact on business . the reform encourage early consideration of how to evaluate whether regulation have achieve what be intend , so they can be revise or remove where they be not work as intend . to support that , our new approach bring independent scrutiny by the independent advisory body , the RPC , to early in the policy cycle . that mean that the RPC ' s opinion can well inform minister ' decision at an early stage on whether proceed with regulation be the right approach , and whether the impact be proportionate . all that should far improve the quality and value of the impact assessment that will reach Parliament , and help to ensure that the Government be regulate only where necessary , and design regulation that be both proportionate and future - proof . we want this to drive the good regulatory environment , and ensure that UK business can grow and consumer stay safe . my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) raise the issue of covid and the Public Health Act , and she be right to say that we must learn from our experience during that time . there be always a price for act and a price for not act , and it be right that we look at policy decision that be take to ensure that we make well decision in future — not that we ever want to suffer from the same experience again . my hon . friend the Member for Shipley speak about the Government frittering money away , and suggest that both party do that . I be not say that money be not waste sometimes . I come from Yorkshire and that be not something we do on an everyday basis — we be keen to avoid it . however , in my eight and a half year in Parliament , and even though we be guilty of it at time , it have always occur to I that those on the Opposition Benches have an awful lot of money to spend . time after time , they have vote for tax cut , or against tax increase , while at the same time call for increase spending . it simply do not add up . to conclude , although the Government be not minded to support the Bill , we recognise the vital role that regulatory impact assessment play both in ensure that Government consider the need for , and likely impact of , new regulation to support legislative change , and in inform decision making and parliamentary scrutiny . the Government do not think the Bill be necessary because there be already proportionate requirement around impact assessment . the framework have always evolve to target regulatory impact assessment where there be the great benefit , and we believe our recent reform move far in that direction . in the spirit of smart regulation , which I trust I have show I very much care about , we should not create new legislation about impact assessment requirement unless it be essential to do so . our recent change to the well regulation framework seek to reinforce the process use in Government , while remove regulation rather than add to it . we believe that be the correct approach . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch for his contribution to this debate , as well as everyone who have work hard to raise awareness of the vital role that regulatory impact assessment play when legislative or policy change be make . this have be an excellent debate , and I thank everybody who have participate in it . in the Minister we have somebody who actually believe in his brief , and it be refreshing to hear he bring his knowledge and experience to this important subject . it be also interesting to hear the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) make it clear that the Labour party support this as an important tool in ensure that we have proper scrutiny and good legislation . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) for dwell on the amendment of the Public Health Act , and the abuse of power to which that give rise . I will finish in a moment with a quote from Lord Sumption , who have a phrase that encapsulate our concern . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) speak eloquently about the problem he have at Scampton . on the basis of what he say , I be almost prepared to come along with my banner and help he to persuade the Government to relent and allow his constituent to continue as they have be . my right hon . Friend make a good point about restoration and renewal , which make I think about a question I ask at the Procedure Committee about how , when the cost - benefit analysis be do , we be go to evaluate the benefit to our democracy of have the House of Commons continue to sit within the Palace of Westminster and not be decant . the answer I get be that that be not something they can do . all they can do be tell we what various option will cost , but they be not prepared to evaluate the benefit of stay in this Palace and not decant . that be an example of the issue that we have . that be expand on by my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) , who as always bring an independent mind to these debate . he give I a nightmare by remind I of the Climate Change Act 2008 and the extent of that legislation . you will recall , Mr Deputy Speaker , that we be in opposition at the time . the leader of the Conservative party , David Cameron , feel so strongly about it that those of we who vote against it — my hon . friend and I , along with Peter Lilley , Ann Widdecombe and Andrew Tyrie — have never be forgive by he . indeed , my noble friend Lord Tyrie be tell expressly by David Cameron that , as a result of his voting against that Bill ' s Third reading , he would never have office on the Front Bench either in opposition or in government under his leadership . that be the pressure that mp be often up against in have an independent mind and not be a nodding donkey . I finish by quote from " Canary in a Covid World : how Propaganda and Censorship change our ( my ) World " , in which Lord Sumption remind we in an essay that " government have immense power , not just in the field of public health but generally . these power have exist for many year . their existence have be tolerable in a liberal democracy only because of a culture of restraint … which make it unthinkable that they should be use in a despotic manner . " in a sense , that be what this debate be all about — try to constrain the natural tendency of the Government to want to behave in a despotic manner . Mr Deputy Speaker , this be an issue that will continue to be of interest to hon . member , so I would like to see whether we can adjourn the debate . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) debate to be resume on Friday 27 October . Green Belt ( Protection ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . let I explain briefly , for those who may have be expect debate on the other Bills , that unfortunately today ' s proceeding will finish at 2 . 30 pm , and it be not possible to debate all these worthy subject on the Order Paper . however , the quality of the debate we have have today show that the Leader of the House be mistake in seek , at one stage , to change the rule and , in effect , exclude debate on most of the subject we have be able to enjoy today . this be the last Bill I have down on today ' s Order Paper and it deal with a subject that have be close to my heart ever since I be privileged to be a Minister in the Department of the Environment , as it then be , and we be celebrate one of the great anniversary of the green belt . it be bring home to I how important the green belt be , not just for be green — it be not always green — but for prevent ribbon development across our country . if one travel out of London , as I will later today when go to my constituency by car , one will be able to travel through many mile of relatively green field and countryside , which be there only because of the green belt . it have be protect over the year against ribbon development . if we contrast what it be like when one go out of London with what it be like go out of Bangkok , Delhi , Cairo or a lot of other foreign city , one can see that we have be able to create for our country a much well environment by have green belt around the big conurbation , include that of Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole . so we want to ensure that we do not erode the green belt . one of my concern be that all the talk about the need to erode the green belt be produce dire consequence , because people who own land in the green belt think they be go to be able to sell it for a fast buck at some future stage and may already be negotiate option on it . as the Government no long seem to be commit to ensure that the green belt remain sacrosanct , we see thing happen in area such as Dudsbury golf course in my constituency . a fortnight ago , the golf club be tell that the golf course be no long go to be available after next April , apparently because a company call Wyatt Homes have buy it . the company have no planning permission to build on it — it be bang in the middle of the green belt — but it obviously think that at some stage in the future if they get rid of the golf course and allow the land to deteriorate , it may be able to get its dream of a massive housing development on that land . I spend much of my time try to stop Bradford Council concrete over the green belt in my constituency . it seem to want to build more and more unaffordable house on the green belt , and I want it to build more and more affordable house on brownfield site in Bradford . be my hon . friend , like I , concern that the Leader of the Opposition recently suggest at his conference that , be he to become Prime Minister , there should be much more building on the green belt and he would want to overrule local objection to that ? I think that what the Leader of the opposition be propose be a complete nightmare . it will destroy at a stroke all that land , which , as I have say , be protect the environment of people who live in city . why should people who live in city and town be prevent from be able to venture outside they to enjoy open air and countryside ? although we have no green belt in Leicestershire , the most love piece of green open space in the county be the green wedge north of Coalville , which separate Coalville from the village of Swannington , Thringstone , Coleorton and Whitwick . will the hon . Gentleman ' s Bill protect those space as well ? it be call the Green Belt ( Protection ) Bill , so I be not sure that protect area outside of the green belt will come into its scope , to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question directly . would I in spirit support protect the sort of space he describe ? the answer be very much that I would . the essence of this Bill be just to concentrate on those area of the country that already have green belt that be subject to pressure from some part of my own party — and particularly now , it seem , from the opposition — to have it de - designate . that be why clause 2 state : " no local authority in England shall de - designate any land … unless … it have ensure that alternative land within its local authority area have be designate as Green Belt land in substitution for the land to be designate " . that would remove any incentive for local authority to grant planning permission on one piece of green - belt land , because they would know that they would have to replace it with another bit of green - belt land . that be why this be such an important bill . go back to the point on take away local concern and local opposition , which the Opposition want to do , the green belt be cherish by the public . to take away the voice of the public should surely be concern . if the opposition will take away the voice of the public from something like this , what else will they be take it away from ? in essence , my right hon . friend be right . this be an issue of local democracy , and it should be for local people to decide the quality of the environment in which they live , but there should also be some national rule . the green - belt policy be originally for the metropolitan green belt , because on a cross - party basis people think , " we can ' t allow our town and city to expand exponentially without any control . " there be always an argument for say , " the next field in the countryside be one on which we should build to deal with the housing crisis . " why not build some more new settlement ? I know that time be against we , so I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way . one of the flaw in his Bill , as I see it , be the proposal to allow local authority to de - list green belt so long as they substitute it with something else . be the danger of that not that we devalue the green belt and , in effect , local council give up plum green - belt site and replace they with land that be not what most people would consider green - belt land , therefore devalue the whole essence of the green belt and make it easy for future politician to come along and concrete over that too ? my hon . friend be right , but the problem be that local authority already can de - list green - belt land and , indeed , be encourage by the Government to do so . it be because of that reality that I think , " let we try to introduce a deterrent against that de - list . " the Government go around say , " you win ' t be able to build on the green belt , but you can apply for that piece of land to no long be designate as green belt , " thereby avoid the protection that this House decide to give when it introduce the green - belt legislation . that erosion be already take place , but the Bill be design to try to limit the effect of that . I take my hon . friend ' s point , however , that for year and year people sit on green - belt land , perhaps with a big offer from a building firm to give they large sum of money if they get planning permission , have think , " let we put pig on the land , or allow Travellers or squatter to get on the land " so that in the end people say , " it would be much well to build on it than have to put up with these ghastly antisocial activity that be already on there . " that have be the strategy by many people who own green - belt land to try to persuade people that it be a good idea to get rid of it . green - belt land do not have to be green ; it have to be land that be undeveloped and be a breathing space for people who be otherwise confine to live in our town and city . I be not expect the Government to approve the Bill , because they have already say that they be against it — indeed , throughout this session they have object to this and all my other Bills — but that do not mean that we should give up . we have to keep on try to protect that which be worth protect . for the reason that I have set out , I believe that it be worth protect the green belt , as I think do most people in the country . they should be remind when they visit London that it would not be such a green and pleasant land outside it but for the green belt . the Deputy Speaker interrupt the business ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . business without Debate Plastics ( Wet Wipes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . Working Time Regulations ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . british Goods ( Public Sector Purchasing Duty ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . consumer Pricing Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . Broadcasting ( Listed Sporting Events ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . Employment ( Application Requirements ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . Puppy Import ( Prohibition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . public Sector Website Impersonation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . armenian Genocide ( Recognition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) ( abolition of By - Elections ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . coroner ( Determination of Suicide ) Bill [ Lords ] Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 October . trend in Excess Deaths Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) we have experience more excess death since July 2021 than in the whole of 2020 . unlike during the pandemic , however , those death be not disproportionately of the old . in other word , the excess death be strike down people in the prime of life , but no one seem to care . I fear that history will not judge this House kindly . worse still , in a country supposedly commit to the free and frank exchange of view , it appear that no one care that no one care . well , I care , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I credit those member in attendance today , who also care . I thank the hon . member for Lincoln ( Karl McCartney ) for his support , and I be sorry that he could not attend the debate . it have take a lot of effort , and more than 20 rejection , to be allow to raise this topic , but at last we be here to discuss the number of people die . nothing could be more serious . numerous country be currently grip in a period of unexpected mortality , and no one want to talk about it . it be quite normal for death number to fluctuate up and down by chance alone , but what we be see here be a pattern repeat across country , and the rise have not let up . I commend the hon . member for the tenacious way in which he have battle on this issue ; I admire he for that . I wonder where he find the medium be in all this . during the covid pandemic , every day the medium — particularly the BBC — could not wait to tell we how many people have die on that particular day , without any context for those figure whatsoever , but they seem to have go strangely quiet over excess death now . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . he be absolutely right : the medium have let the british public down badly . there will be a full press pack go out to all medium outlet follow my speech , with all the evidence to back up all the claim I will make , but I do not doubt that there will be no mention of it in the mainstream medium . one might think that a debate about excess death would be full of number , but this speech do not contain many number , because most of the important number be be keep hide . other datum have be oddly present in a distorted way , and concerned people seek to highlight important finding and ask question have find themselves inexplicably under attack . before debate excess death , it be important to understand how excess death be determined . to understand whether there be an excess , by definition , we need to estimate how many death would have be expect . the Organisation for Economic Co - operation and Development use 2015 to 2019 as a baseline , and the Government ' s Office for Health Improvement and Disparities use a 2015 to 2019 baseline , model to allow for ageing . I have use that datum here . unforgivably , the Office for National Statistics have include death in 2021 as part of its baseline calculation for expected death , as if there be anything normal about the death in 2021 . by exaggerate the number of death expect , the number of excess death can be minimise . why would the ONS want to do that ? there be just too much that we do not know , and it be not good enough . the ONS publish promptly each week the number of death register . while that be commendable , it be not the data point that really matter . there be a total failure to collect , never mind publish , datum on death that be refer for investigation to the coroner . why do that matter ? a referral mean that it can be many month — or , give the backlog , many year — before a death be formally register . need to investigate the cause of a death be fair enough , but fail to record when the death happen be not . because of that problem , we have no idea how many people die in 2021 , even now . the problem be great for the young age group , where a high proportion of death be investigate . this datum failure be unacceptable and must change . there be nothing in a coroner ' s report that can bring anyone back from the dead , and those death should be report . the young age group be important not only because they should have their whole life ahead of they . if there be a new cause of excess mortality across the board , it would not be notice so much in the old cohort , because the extra death would be drown out among the expect death . however , in the young cohort , that be not the case . there be nearly two extra death a day in the second half of 2021 among 15 to 19 - year - old male , but potentially even more if those refer to the coroner be fully include . in a judicial review of the decision to vaccinate yet young child , the ONS refuse in court to give anonymised detail about those death . it admit that the datum it be withhold be statistically significant . it say : " the ONS recognise that more work could be undertake to examine the mortality rate of young people in 2021 , and intend to do so once more reliable datum be available . " how many more extra death in 15 to 19 - year - old will it take to trigger such work ? surely the ONS should be desperately keen to investigate death in young man . why else do we have an independent body charge with examine mortality datum ? surely the ONS have a responsibility to collect datum from coroner to produce timely information . let we move on to old people . Most death in the old be register promptly , and we have a well feel for how many old people be die . death from dementia and Alzheimer ' s show what we ought to expect : there be a period of high mortality coincide with covid and lockdown , but ever since , there have be few death than expect . after a period of high mortality , we expect and historically have see a period of low mortality , because those who have sadly die can not die again . those whose death be slightly premature because of covid and lockdown die early than they otherwise would have . that principle should hold true for every cause of death and every age group , but that be not what we be see . even for the over - 85 - year - old , accord to the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities , there be 8 , 000 excess death — 4 % above the expect level — for the 12 month start in July 2020 . that include all of the autumn 2020 wave of covid when we have tiere and the second lockdown and all of the first covid winter . however , for the year start July 2022 , there be more than 18 , 000 excess death in this age group — 9 % above expect level . that be more than twice as many in a period when there should have be a deficit and when death from disease previously associate with old age be few than expect . I have raise my concern about NG163 and the use of midazolam and morphine , which may have cause — and may still be cause — premature death in the vulnerable , but that is , sadly , a debate for another day . there be just over 14 , 000 excess death in the under 65 - year - old before vaccination from April 2020 to the end of March 2021 . however , since that time , there have be more than 21 , 000 excess death , ignore the registration delay problem , and the majority of those death — 58 % of they — be not attribute to covid . we turn society upside down before vaccination for fear of excess death from covid , but today we have substantially more excess death , and in young people , and there be a complete eerie silence . the evidence be unequivocal . there be a clear stepwise increase in mortality follow the vaccine roll - out . there be a reprieve in the winter of 2021 - 22 because there be few than expect respiratory death , but otherwise the excess have be incessantly at this high level . ambulance datum for England provide another clue . ambulance call for life - threaten emergency be run at a steady 2 , 000 call a day until the vaccine roll - out . from then , they rise to 2 , 500 daily , and call have stay at that level since . the surveillance system design to spot a safety problem have all flash red , but no one be look . claim for personal independence payment from people who have develop a disability and can not work rocket with the vaccine roll - out and have continue to rise ever since . the same be see in the US , which also start with the vaccine roll - out , not with covid . a study to determine the vaccination status of a sample of such claimant would be relatively quick and inexpensive to perform , yet nobody seem interested in ascertain this vital information . official have choose to turn a blind eye to this disturbing , irrefutable and frightening datum , much like Nelson do — and for far less honourable reason . he would be ashamed of we . furthermore , datum that have be use to sing the praise of the vaccine be deeply flawed . only one covid - relate death be prevent in each of the initial major trial that lead to authorisation of the vaccine , and that be take the datum entirely at face value , whereas a grow number of inconsistency and anomaly suggest that we ought not to do this . extrapolate from that mean that between 15 , 000 and 20 , 000 people have to be inject to prevent a single death from covid . to prevent a single covid hospitalisation , more than 1 , 500 people need to be inject . the trial datum show that one in 800 inject people have a serious , adverse event , mean that they be hospitalise or have a life - threaten or life - change condition . the risk of this be twice as high as the chance of prevent a covid hospitalisation . we be harm one in 800 people to supposedly save one in 20 , 000 . that be madness . the strong claim have too often be base on modelling carry out on the basis of flawed assumption . where observational study have be carry out , researcher will correct for age and comorbiditie to make the vaccine look well . however , they never correct for socioeconomic or ethnic difference as that would make vaccine look bad . that matter . for example , claim of high mortality in less vaccinated region of the United States take no account of the fact that this be the case before the vaccine be roll out . that be why study that claim to show that the vaccine prevent covid death also show a marked effect of they prevent non - covid death . the prevention of non - covid death be always a statistical illusion and claim of prevent covid death should not be assume when that illusion have not be correct for . when it be correct for , the claim of efficacy for the vaccine vanish with it . Covid disproportionately kill people from ethnic minority and low socioeconomic group during the pandemic . in 2020 , death among the most deprived be up by 23 % compare with 17 % for the least deprived . however , since 2022 the pattern have reverse , with 5 % excess mortality among the most deprived compare with 7 % among the least deprived . these death be be cause by something different . in 2020 , the excess be high in the old cohort , and there be few than expect death among young age group . however , since 2022 , the 50 to 64 - year - old cohort have have the high excess mortality . even the young age group be now see a substantial excess , with a 9 % excess in the under - 50 since 2022 compare with 5 % in the over - 75 group . despite London be a young region , the excess in London be only 3 % , whereas it be high in every more heavily vaccinate region of the UK . it should be note that London be famously the least vaccinate region in the UK by some margin . study compare region on a large scale show the same thing . study from the Netherlands , Germany and the whole world each show that the high mortality after vaccination be see in the most heavily vaccinate region . so we need to ask : what be people die of ? since 2022 , there have be an 11 % excess in ischemic heart disease death and a 16 % excess in heart failure death . in the meantime , cancer death be only 1 % above expect level , which be further evidence that this be not simply some other factor that affect death across the board , such as fail to account for an age population or a fail nhs . in fact , the excess itself have a seasonality , with a peak in the winter month . the fact that it return to baseline level in summer be a further indication that this be not due to some statistical error or an age population alone . Dr Clare Craig from HART — the Health Advisory & Recovery Team — first highlight a stepwise increase in cardiac arrest call after the vaccine roll - out in May 2021 . HART have repeatedly raise concern about the increase in cardiac death , and it have every reason to be concern . four participant in the vaccine group of the Pfizer trial die from cardiac arrest compare with only one in the placebo group . overall , there be 21 death in the vaccine group up to March 2021 , compare with 17 in the placebo group . there be serious anomaly about the reporting of death in this trial , with the death in the vaccine group take much long to report than those in the placebo group . that be highly suggestive of a significant bias in what be suppose to be a blinded trial . an israeli study clearly show that an increase in cardiac hospital attendance among 18 to 39 - year - old correlate with vaccination , not with covid . there have now be several post - mortem study demonstrate a causal link between vaccination and coronary artery disease lead to death up to four month after the last dose . we need to remember that the safety trial be cut short to only two month , so there be no evidence of any vaccine safety beyond that point . the decision to unblind the trial after two month and vaccinate the placebo group be nothing less than a public health scandal . everyone involve fail in their duty to the truth , but no one care . the one place that can help we understand exactly what have cause this be Australia , which have almost no covid when vaccine be first introduce , make it the perfect control group . the state of South Australia have only 1 , 000 case of covid across its whole population by December 2021 , before omicron arrive . what be the impact of vaccination there ? for 15 to 44 - year - old , there be historically 1 , 300 emergency cardiac presentation a month . with the vaccine roll - out to the under - 50 , this rocket to over 2 , 172 case in November 2021 in this age group alone , which be 67 % more than usual . overall , 17 , 900 South Australians have a cardiac emergency in 2021 compare with only 13 , 250 in 2018 , which be a 35 % increase . the vaccine must clearly be the no . 1 suspect for this , and it can not be dismiss as a coincidence . australian mortality overall have increase from early 2021 , and that increase be due to cardiac death . these excess death be not due to an age population , because there be few death from the disease of old age . these death be not an effect of covid , because they have happen in place that covid have not reach . they be not due to low statin prescription or undertreated hypertension , as Chris Whitty would suggest , because prescription do not change , and any effect would have take many year and be very small . the prime suspect must be something that be introduce to the population as a whole , something novel . the prime hypothesis must be the experimental covid - 19 vaccine . the ONS publish a dataset of death by vaccinate and unvaccinated . at first glance , it appear to show that the vaccine be safe and effective . however , there be several huge problem with how it present that datum . one be that for the first three - week period after injection , the ONS claim that there be only a tiny number of death — the number the ONS would normally predict to occur in a single week . where be the death from the usual cause ? when that be raise , the ONS claim that the sick people do not get vaccinate and therefore the people who be vaccinate be self - select for those least likely to die . not only be that not the case in the real world , with even hospice heavily vaccinate their resident , but the ONS ' s own datum show that the proportion of sick people be equal in the vaccinated and the unvaccinated group . that inevitably raise serious question about the ONS ' s datum presentation . there be so many problem with the methodology use by the ONS that the statistic regulator agree that the ONS datum could not be use to assess vaccine efficacy or safety . that tell we something about the ONS . consequently , HART ask the UK Health Security Agency to provide the datum it have on people who have die and therefore need to be remove from its vaccination dataset . that request have be repeatedly refuse , with excuse give include the false claim that anonymise the datum would be the equivalent of create it even though there be case law that anonymisation be not consider the creation of new datum . I believe that if this datum be release , it would be damn . some claim that so many life have be save by mass vaccination that any amount of harm , suffering and death cause by the vaccine be a price worth pay . they be delusional . the claim of 20 million life save be base on now discredit model which assume that covid wave do not peak without intervention . there have be numerous wave globally now that demonstrate that be not the case . it be also base on there have be more than half a million life save in the UK . that be more than the bad - case scenario predict at the beginning of the pandemic . for the claim to have be true , the rate at which covid kill people would have have to take off dramatically at the beginning of 2021 in the absence of vaccination . that be ludicrous and it bear no relation to the truth . in the real world , Australia , New Zealand and South Korea have a mortality rate of 400 death per million up to summer 2022 after they be first hit with omicron . how do that compare ? with the Wuhan strain , France and Europe as a whole have a mortality rate of under 400 death per million up to summer 2020 . Australia , New Zealand and South Korea be all heavily vaccinate before infection , so tell I : where be the benefit ? the UK have just over 800 death per million up to summer 2020 , so twice as much , but we know omicron be half as deadly as the Wuhan variant . the death rate per million be the same before and after vaccination , so where be the benefit of vaccination ? the regulator have fail in their duty to protect the public . they allow these novel product to skip crucial safety testing by let they be describe as vaccine . they fail to insist on safety testing be do in the year since the first temporary emergency authorisation . even now , no one can tell we how much spike protein be produce on vaccination and for how long — yet another example of where there be no data for I to share with the House . when it come to properly record death due to vaccination , the system be break . not a single doctor register a death from a rare brain clot before doctor in Scandinavia force the issue and the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency acknowledge the problem . only then do these death start to be certify by doctor in the UK . it turn out the doctor be wait for permission from the regulator and the regulator be wait to be alert by the doctor . this be a lethal circularity . furthermore , coroner have write regulation 28 report highlight death from vaccination to prevent further death , yet the MHRA say in response to a freedom of information request that it have not receive any of they . the system we have in place be clearly not function to protect the public . the regulator also miss the fact that in the Pfizer trial , the vaccine be make for the trial participant in a highly control environment , in stark contrast to the manufacturing process use for the public roll - out , which be base on a completely different technology . just over 200 participant be give the same product that be give to the public , but not only be the datum from these people never compare to those in the trial for efficacy and safety but the MHRA have admit that it drop the requirement to provide the datum . that mean that there be never a trial on the Pfizer product that be actually roll out to the public , and that product have never be compare with the product that be actually trialle . the vaccine mass production process use vat of Escherichia coli and present a risk of contamination with dna from the bacteria , as well as bacterial cell wall , which can cause dangerous reaction . this be not theoretical ; this be now sound evidence that have be replicate by several lab across the world . the mrna vaccine be contaminate by DNA , which far exceed the usual permissible level . give that this dna be enclose in a lipid nanoparticle delivery system , it be arguable that even the permissible level would have be far too high . these lipid nanoparticle be know to enter every organ of the body . as well as this potentially cause some of the acute adverse reaction that have be see , there be a serious risk of this foreign bacterial dna inserting itself into human DNA . will anybody investigate ? no , they win ' t . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for give way ; I be conscious that time be tight . I recognise that he be make a very powerful case . do he agree that the Government should be look at this properly and should commission a review into the excess death , partly so that we can reassure our constituent that the case he be make be not in fact valid and that the vaccine be not the cause behind these excess death ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support on this topic . of course that be exactly what any responsible Government should do . I write to the Prime Minister on 7 August 2023 with all the evidence of this , but sadly I be still await a response . what will it take to stop these product ? their complete failure to stop infection be not enough ; we all know plenty of vaccinate people who have catch and spread covid . the mutation of the virus to a weak variant — omicron — be not enough , the increase evidence of the serious harm to those of we who be vaccinate be not enough , and now the cardiac death and the death of young people be apparently not enough either . it be high time that these experimental vaccine be suspend and a full investigation into the harm that they have cause be initiate . history will be a harsh judge if we do not start use evidence - base medicine . we need to return to basic science and basic ethic immediately , which mean listen to all voice and investigate all concern . in conclusion , the experimental covid - 19 vaccine be not safe and be not effective . despite there be only limited interest in the Chamber from colleague — I be very grateful to those who have attend — we can see from the Public Gallery that there be considerable public interest . I implore all member of the House , those who be present and those who be not , to support call for a three - hour debate on this important issue . Mr Deputy Speaker , this might be the first debate on excess death in our Parliament — indeed , it might be the first debate on excess death in the world — but , very sadly , I promise you it will not be the last . I congratulate the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) on secure this important debate . I only have five minute of this 30 - minute debate to respond . I will try to cover all the point if I can . can I start by acknowledge that the hon . member be correct that we have see an increase in excess death in the last year ? however , I disagree with his analysis , because the cause that he refer to simply do not bear out the statistic that we have . there have be a combination of factor contribute to the increase in excess death , include , in the last year , high flu prevalence , the ongoing challenge of covid - 19 , a strep a outbreak and condition such as heart disease , which he touch on , diabete and cancer . because we have have virtually a lockdown of routine health service over a two - year period , many people be now come forward with increase morbidity and mortality as a result . I will start with winter flu . the number of positive test last year peak at 31 . 8 % , the high figure see in the last six year . interim analysis from the UKHSA indicate that the number of death in England associate with flu be far high than pre - pandemic level , so the excess death due to flu last winter be , sadly , part of the answer . the hon . member touch on the independent body , the ONS . its figure show that the lead cause of death in England be still dementia , which account for about 10 % of all death . it also look at the cause of excess death . if we look at the figure as of June this year , the top three cause of excess death be respiratory illness , dementia and ischaemic heart disease , which be often cause by an increase in cholesterol , smoking or not have a blood pressure check . there be a number of reason , and they be often chronic condition that people have have for year , or in some case for decade ; they be not acute illness . in the three minute I have leave to respond , I will touch on some of the point that the hon . Member make . first , on the importance of vaccination , it be very easy to say that there be a prevalence of high rate of covid vaccination in people who have die . that be correct : when 93 . 6 % of the population have have at least one dose of the vaccine , there will be a high rate of vaccination in excess death . that be different from causality . I completely agree with the hon . member that there be a high prevalence rate , but that be not the same as say that vaccination be the cause of those death . the Office for National Statistics have look at this , and those who have be vaccinate have generally have a low all - cause mortality rate than unvaccinated people since the introduction of the booster in 2021 . a recent study in Singapore look at unvaccinated patient who have recover from covid , and show that those patient have a 56 % high risk of cardiac complication a year later than those who be vaccinate . there be conflict datum on this issue , and I be not necessarily disagree with the hon . member , but I think we need to have a robust conversation about it , not to assume that one side necessarily have all the answer . I will touch on a couple of point that the hon . Member make about vaccine safety . the regulator have be take account of those who report adverse event , and I encourage anyone who have have a side effect from any of the vaccine to use the yellow card system and report it to their gp . when those side effect have be report , the MHRA have take action . in April 2021 , the MHRA react to rare case of concurrent thrombosis and thrombocytopenia follow the AZ vaccine , which result in adult under 30 not be offer that vaccine . in May 2021 , that be increase to adult under 40 . with regard to the mrna vaccine specifically , follow report of a link between covid vaccine and myocarditis , the Commission on Human Medicines conduct an independent review in June 2021 , which find that the incidence of that side effect be rare : between one and two case per 100 , 000 . when there be concern , we absolutely must investigate they . there be no doubt about that . we have a debate early this afternoon about those who have experience rare side effect from the vaccine . we do have the vaccine damage payment scheme , which offer a payment of £ 120 , 000 if that be show to be — House adjourn without question put ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 7 ) ) .