we now move on to debate clause 12 , 13 and 19 . before I delve into the detail of the clause , however , let I first briefly set out how they fit into this Finance Bill . the Government remain focused on take long - term decision to strengthen the economy by drive productivity , increase the number of people in high - wage , high - skilled job , and boost investment . the Government be also ensure that the tax system be as competitive as we can make it under very difficult economic circumstance . we have some of the most generous investment incentive among major economy , include full permanent expensing , which the OBR have forecast will generate almost £ 3 billion of additional business investment each year , or £ 14 billion over the next five year . it have forecast that that additional investment will increase GDP by 0 . 1 % by the end of the forecast . in addition to full expensing , we have an internationally competitive corporation tax rate — the low headline rate in the G7 — which this Bill legislate to maintain . I will now turn to clause 12 , 13 and 19 in more detail . clause 12 and 13 set the charge for corporation tax from April 2025 . this include both the main rate and the small profit rate , as well as the threshold at which those rate apply . the charge for corporation tax must be set every year . it be important to legislate annually in advance , as this provide certainty to large and very large company that pay tax in advance on the basis of their estimate tax liability . these clause maintain the current main rate of 25 % and the small profit rate of 19 % , as introduce in April 2023 . tax certainty be of great importance to business — I think that be something we can all agree on — and clause 12 and 13 ensure that they will continue to benefit from stable and predictable tax rule . by maintain the current rate , the Government have strike the right balance between remain competitive and raise vital revenue . clause 19 make change to ensure that the energy profit levy will no long apply if oil and gas price return to historically normal level for a sustained period of time . it do so by introduce legislation to give effect to the energy security investment mechanism , or ESIM . the EPL be introduce in 2022 , at a time of near - record high oil and gas price , but it be right that should those price return to historically normal level , the additional tax would cease to apply . the detail of how the ESIM operate be set out in the technical note publish alongside the 2023 autumn statement ; this Bill simply put that detail on a legislative footing and provide for secondary legislation to legislate for the administrative detail of how that check be make . current oil and gas price be high than normal , and obr projection indicate that high price will persist over the next five year . the ESIM be a mechanism that switch off the EPL if , for a period of six month , the average price of both oil and gas fall below set threshold . those threshold be currently $ 74 . 21 per barrel for oil and 50p per therm for gas , and be base on a 20 - year historical average to the end of 2022 — before high energy price begin — and be adjust each April base on the annual change in the precede December ' s consumer price index . by provide certainty on the condition under which the levy will be disapplie , the Government be support investor confidence in the sector and help to protect domestic energy supply , the economy , and of course job . clause 12 and 13 provide certainty to business by maintain the current rate of corporation tax , and clause 19 have be welcome by the oil and gas operator and their investor , with the ESIM provide the sector with certainty to support future investment in the UK — in job and in our energy security — while also ensure fairness to taxpayer . I therefore commend these clause to the Committee .