Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Flood risk : Rural Communities what step his Department be take to help protect rural community in flood - risk area . around 45 % of the Government ' s £ 5 . 2 billion investment in flood protection be target at rural community , and the Minister for Water be allocate £ 75 million of funding specifically to internal drainage board , which , again , serve many rural constituency . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . in recent month , part of North Warwickshire and Bedworth , include Austrey , Polesworth and the Woodlands , have see significant and unprecedented flooding , which have cause real damage to house and business and upheaval for local resident . will the Secretary of State set out what other step can be take to prevent this from happen and to stop these situation become the norm ? my hon . friend have be a real constituency champion in highlight some of the flooding issue that have occur in North Warwickshire and Bedworth . of the Environment Agency investment over six year , £ 24 million be go specifically into protect 800 property , and I know we will have further discussion on the work that he be do locally to tackle flooding . I thank the Secretary of State for his response . as he will know , the Northern Ireland Assembly be back up and run . we have a Minister in place to deal with flooding , but money must be spend wisely and effectively . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Northern Ireland Assembly Minister at this early stage to ensure that lesson learn here on the mainland can be use back home , where over the past year flooding have become an exceptional problem that worry many people ? I think the whole House welcome the fact that the Assembly be back up and run . the hon . Gentleman will appreciate that I be very keen , as a former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , that money be spend in a value - for - money way . I be in the Northern Ireland Secretary ' s constituency just last week to discuss a range of issue in Northern Ireland , and I be very keen that we learn from each other about the good way to tackle flooding . british Produce what step he be take to encourage supermarket to promote british produce . I welcome the campaign of my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) and the action take by some supermarket to introduce a " buy british " button online , and I strongly support their effort to encourage consumer to pick high - quality british produce . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have launch a consultation on fair food labelling to help promote british produce and statutory code that ensure that british farmer get a fair price for their good . one of the good way we can support british farmer be by choose to buy british food . it be good for the environment , reduce food mile and improve our food security , because we be import less produce . will my right hon . friend the Farming Minister join I in specifically congratulate morrison , Aldi , Sainsbury ' s and Ocado , which all now have the " buy british " button online so that consumer can easily find british food to buy ? what we see be that consumer want to buy top - quality british food . I congratulate those supermarket , and I encourage other to consider whether they may want to introduce a " buy british " button for online sale . Waterway Cleanliness what recent assessment he have make of the cleanliness of England ' s waterway . what recent assessment he have make of the cleanliness of England ' s waterway . what recent progress his Department have make on improve water quality . we know how important clean water be to the public , and we share their concern and outrage about pollution in waterway . that be why we have increase monitoring of storm overflow in England from 7 % under Labour in 2010 to 100 % today , and we be now hold water company to account on tackle pollution by quadruple the number of check , increase unannounced inspection , give Ofwat new power to block bonus , and take action against water company that do not link dividend to environmental performance . household across the north - west could see their water bill rise by nearly 40 % by 2030 as water company look to consumer to meet the cost of much - need infrastructure upgrade . do the Government agree that the cost of stem the flow of sewage into our waterway should be meet by the water company and the shareholder who be receive hundred of million of pound in payout last year , not by the hard - work british public ? the Government be absolutely clear that no one should pay extra for water company to clean up our river . we be pleased that water company have promise a £ 96 billion investment over the next five year across England and Wales , and we will continue to hold polluter to account . just this week , we announce a fast - track investment of £ 180 million over the next 12 month to prevent more than 800 , 000 sewage spill from pollute English waterway . we should not have an open sewer flow through the city of York and , when it flood , flow into business and people ' s home . while water company executive have pocket £ 10 million in bonus , my constituent have have to put up with 1 , 414 sewage release . when will the Minister end this profiteering and invest in upgrade York ' s sewerage infrastructure ? how do he intend to do this ? as I say , we have already see water company want to invest £ 96 billion over the next price review cycle . I recently visit York , and work be be undertake by Yorkshire Water to address sewage pollution spill . Ofwat have already be give power to take a much tough approach to boss ' bonus , if their company be deem to have be pollute . this government will continue to hold water company to account . I welcome the action that this Government be take to improve water quality , but in Wales , which have some of the bad level of sewage pollution , there be no legally bind target for the water company to reduce sewage or to upgrade their waste water treatment plant , and there be no overall reduction plan for sewage . there be not even any prosecution , because the policy in Wales be not to prosecute these company . do the Minister know which party be run the Administration in Wales ? I share my right hon . friend ' s concern about Labour ' s failure to tackle spill from storm overflow in Wales , where the average number of spill from storm overflow be two third high than in England . I be not surprised by this , because we know that when Labour be last in government in 2010 , only 7 % of storm overflow be monitor , compare with 100 % today . ninety per cent of bathing water be now class as good or excellent , compare with just 76 % under Labour in 2010 . drinking water be treat with both ultraviolet light and chlorine before it go into our tap , so it be perfectly safe . water that go through water treatment work be treat but not necessarily disinfect by the use of UV , unless it be head towards a designate bathing water . France be host the Olympics in Paris , and the Seine be be treat with performic acid . one place in this country , Southwold , be use performic acid right now , but scientist from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Environment Agency have so far be reluctant to roll it out . if it be good enough for people to swim in the Seine during the Olympics , surely it be good enough to start use this treatment , which be cheap and could be deploy across our country . I thank my right hon . friend for raise this important issue , and I reassure she that I be have conversation with official not only in the Environment Agency but in DEFRA on this very issue . I be more than happy to meet she so she can share her knowledge from when she be Secretary of State . I call the shadow Minister . it be clear from what we have hear that the Minister be here to tell we how well the Government and the water company be do . meanwhile , out there in the real world , the recent " state of our Rivers " report expose that not one English river be in a good overall condition . the capital ' s water supplier be on the brink of collapse , and the only solution that the Government be even consider be steal from the Labour party . be it not the truth that what Britian ' s river really can not afford be five more year of this useless government ? when the Leader of the Opposition say that he would want Wales to be his blueprint if Labour get into power in England , I fear for this country . we have see far bad water pollution under Welsh Labour , as have already be say . we will continue with our plan for water , which be about more investment , strong regulation and much tough enforcement against those who pollute . Teddington Direct River Abstraction whether he have have recent discussion with Thames Water on its proposal for the Teddington direct river abstraction project . DEFRA , support by the Environment Agency , be currently seek clarification from Thames Water on its revise draft water resource management plan to help inform the next step for the Teddington project . the proposal be still at an early stage . Thames Water will continue to carry out further consultation over the next couple of year to help it design and carry out further environmental assessment of the scheme . the water resource management plan for the south - east , which contain the highly controversial Teddington direct river abstraction proposal oppose by ten of thousand of local resident and river user across south - west London , have be sit on the Environment Secretary ' s desk since August . we have be call for the Teddington proposal to be take out of the plan , and we be tell that a decision would be make by Christmas , then by February 2024 , and now we be tell it will be make in due course . in the meantime , as the Minister suggest , Thames Water be waste huge amount of billpayer ' money on the proposal , so will he confirm when the Secretary of State plan to make a decision on the water resource management plan and whether he will take the Teddington project out of it ? this follow on from a conversation I have with the hon . Lady and her constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . we be well aware of Thames Water ' s proposal for this scheme , which be still in a consultation stage . it be one of 17 strategic water resource option be consider across the Thames catchment , and I will be update by Thames Water , as will the Secretary of State , when it have complete its consultation . " not for EU " labelling what recent estimate he have make with Cabinet colleague of the cost to business of " not for EU " labelling . what recent estimate he have make with Cabinet colleague of the cost to business of " not for EU " labelling . the Department engage regularly with UK industry to understand the impact of the Windsor framework , and we encourage business to respond to the consultation , which be still live . during my various meeting , include at the UK corporate headquarters of Bidfood in my constituency , exasperated business have express serious concern about the damage be inflict on they by the Conservatives ' ill - thought - through " not for EU " labelling scheme . along with increase consumer confusion , it will also likely reduce choice and raise price for shopper . Secretary of State , why be this incompetent government so hellbent on burden british business with more bureaucracy and red tape , and increase their cost base ? first , let I say that there be a consultation taking place , so there be discussion on this . secondly , £ 50 million have already be allocate as transitional support . thirdly , particularly for colleague in Northern Ireland , it be important that , far from restrict choice , we maintain it . that be exactly what the Windsor framework , which the House as a whole agree to , be design to do . a correctly label shipment for go Nuts , a firm in Park Royal , make it to Felixstowe on 2 January but , shockingly , it have only just be release from be impound . that be due to a custom staff shortage at the border , so will the Government fix that ? the company incur a three - figure sum for 40 day ' storage , plus vat . the Government be throw small business under the bus — albeit a Sadiq Khan bus with low emission . I will leave it to other to deduce the link to Sadiq Khan ' s bus . I think the hon . Lady prepare her question before the previous answer , because I just set out that we be give £ 50 million of transitional labelling support . of course , a consultation be live and we be work with business on it . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the Food and Drink Federation have warn the UK Government that their plan to require all meat and dairy sell in the UK to have " not for EU " labelling attack will divert " hundred of million of pound " of investment away from the UK , and that several international investor have pause their plan to invest in UK food and drink . as we continue to circle the drain of tory - impose recession , will the Secretary of State tell the House and the public if drive investment away from this vital sector will help or hinder attempt to avoid yet great recession ? of course we will work with industry on any change , but the SNP need to be consistent , because we have other proposal , such as the review of public sector procurement be carry out by my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) and fairer labelling . for example , pig rear overseas be often market as british bacon , and our labelling change often have widespread support from the farming sector . it be important that we do these change with the industry , which be why we have allocate £ 50 million of transitional support . support for Farmers what step he be take to support farmer . british farmer put food on our table and form the backbone of the rural economy , and this Government will always back our farmer . that be why in January we increase the rate pay through the environmental land management action by an average of 10 % and increase the number of choice through the 50 new action for farmer . one concern that farmer have raise about the sustainable farming incentive be that they have to pay money up front before they can receive compensation or reclaim that money from the Government . a farmer in my constituency instal a stone track to prevent soil from wash on to the road . he commit to the Bacs payment before he receive the money from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , but because it leave his account three day later , he now have to pay his DEFRA money back . this be an insane situation and he can not afford this . he be go to have to take this track up and sell the stone . will the Secretary of State help I with this case , so that we get those environmental protection scheme in place and do not penalise people for time difference ? first , I be happy to look at any individual case the hon . Lady raise . secondly , I agree with she on the wide point . I have be very clear with the Rural Payments Agency that we need a more trusting relationship about payment . we need to accelerate those payment , so they be pay more quickly . to be fair to the RPA , there be sometimes constraint because of National Audit Office rule around the error rate check it need . we be work with the RPA to shift the relationship to one build more on trust , where payment go out in a more expedited fashion . fisherman be the farmer of the sea . what further step be the Secretary of State take to support the aquaculture industry , especially help it to create new business across our coastal community ? my hon . friend know from our regular conversation just how engaged I be on this subject . he meet with the Minister for Water and Rural Growth yesterday . as he know , there be a consultation about medical exemption for boat under 10 metre . I know the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries be look closely at the issue around pollack . I be happy to update my hon . friend on a series of other initiative as we work through they . have the Secretary of State actually talk to the National Farmers Union recently ? have he even talk to the celebrity farmer on television who we all know about ? what be the plan ? farmer be in a period of stasis . they do not know where they be go or how they be go to face the future , because there be no plan under this incompetent Administration . not only have I speak to the new president of the NFU — he have be in my office already — but I have be on his farm to discuss these matter . I have also be his deputy ' s farm . in fact , on be appoint Secretary of State , the first meeting I have be with the former NFU president and the first meeting in my office , within a week , be with the then president of the NFU , so I regularly engage with colleague in the NFU . just this week I have a meeting with the NFU county president for Cambridgeshire . however , I be surpass in that engagement by the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , who have discussion with the NFU even more frequently . on a recent visit to Church Farm in Weston Turville in my constituency , the family who have farm there for generation stress how important it be for they to be able to diversify their income , for example with their very popular farm shop , which sell their produce and that of nearby farmer . however , current planning rule limit the shop to opening on 28 day a year . will my right hon . friend update the House on his conversation with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and across Government about make it easy for farmer to diversify their income , so that we can assure the food security that be so vital to our nation ? my hon . friend raise an important point . my focus , and that of the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , be first and foremost on ensure food production and food security be viable for our farmer , but diversification be also important . I be in advanced discussion with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on extend permit development right . to go back to the question raise by the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) , a certain very famous farmer have raise his frustration in Oxfordshire . I want to streamline permit development to make it easy for farmer to diversify , but first and foremost farmer want to produce food , which be my key focus . I call the shadow Minister . farmer need support against potentially devastating contagious disease , such as african swine fever . I recently visit Dover , where the diligent Port Health Authority regularly seize contaminate meat . yet next month , its DEFRA funding will be cut by 70 % and , incredibly , those border check will be move 22 mile inland . why be the Conservatives put the farmer of this country and our national security at risk ? that be a timely question . just yesterday I have a meeting with the chief veterinary officer to discuss our security risk , particularly in the context of bluetongue disease . it may not be catch the House ' s attention today , but I be concerned that it will become a widely debate issue by the summer . I be actively engage in that discussion , and the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries be have a roundtable on that live security issue next week . last week , I speak at the British Veterinary Association annual dinner , which the hon . Gentleman also attend , so he see in first person just how engaged we be with these issue . chemical Strategy when his Department plan to publish its strategy for chemical . this Government be commit to protect human health and the environment , and we will be set out our priority for address risk from chemical in due course . to be clear , though , the new draft strategy set out that our chemical policy and regulatory decision will be independent of the EU ; they will be bespoke to the UK . the cosmetic sector be often overlook , perhaps because we be unwilling to show how dependent we be on that sector , or perhaps because so many of the 550 , 000 people who work in that sector be woman . the Cosmetic , Toiletry and Perfumery Association manifesto make it clear that it require a safe and sustainable supply of chemical within a robust , internationally compatible regulatory framework . be it not clear that this ongoing chaos with the chemical strategy mean that what it actually require be a change of Government ? a great many people from that industry be at an international woman ' s event about sustainability that I speak at yesterday . in our engagement on the new alternative transition model , which involve work with the industry very closely , we be take into account the fact that supply chain be complicated , that they operate cross border , and that the sector value access . we will be consult on the strategy very shortly . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister tell I in January this year that the chemical strategy will be produce next year , before correct it to this year . whether it be this year , next year or sometime never , do she agree that the strategy will be worth the paper it be write on only if the UK regulation catch up with other country and stop hazardous substance be dump here , damage our environment and public health ? as the hon . Member will know , there be a global framework on chemical . I attend a conference on the UN global framework on chemical back in September in Bonn . we sign up to the framework , which be bind , set target and international commitment , and relate to finance capacity - building , so that we can soundly manage and handle our chemical and waste , and that be exactly what we be do with our bespoke UK strategy . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . UK Food Security what recent assessment he have make of UK food security . food security be a top priority for the Government and we be commit to continue to grow 60 % of our food here in the UK . to back up those plan , we be introduce an annual food security index and we be currently develop the content of that index . we want to strike the right balance between food production and the natural environment , which be why all the action in the sustainable farming incentive work to support food production and the environment . do the Minister share my concern that a perfect storm may be brew ? with grain price on the floor , a third of the wheat crop either not be drill or flood out , and rape be increasingly difficult to establish , some of the long - term , multi - annual stewardship option be become increasingly attractive . and that be not to mention those idiot in Wales take 20 % of land out of production . do he share my concern ? that be something we consistently and constantly review to make sure that we be strike that right balance between food production and the environment . we will continue to do that to make sure that we do not see such perverse incentive . certainly , give the challenge of the weather this season and the difficulty with planting cereal crop , we will continue to look at whether that balance be right . what I do not want be people abuse the system and put in too much wild bird mix or pollinator mix ; we will continue to review whether that be have an impact on the market . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . can the Minister explain how his Department ' s policy of take good agricultural land out of food production be compatible with improve UK food security ? I can . the sustainable farming incentive motivate farmer to improve their soil quality , which be good for the production of food , and incentivise farmer to look after pollinator , which be good for the pollination of crop . the environment and food production be two side of the same coin . we , as farmer , want to encourage farmer to look after the environment , so that we can continue to produce top - quality food on highly productive land . food price what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the UK ' s departure from the EU on food price in the UK . if the hon . Member be concerned about food price , I urge he to consider the impact of the Scottish Government ' s decision to crack down on meal deal and supermarket promotion , which will mean that scottish customer pay more than english one for the same product . that have nothing to do with the question on the Order Paper . the London School of Economics find that Brexit have add £ 250 to the average household bill . the healthcare certificate that be now require will add even more . be the reality not that the cost of living crisis be a cost of Westminster crisis , fuel by Brexit ? the hon . Member seem to imply that food inflation have be unique to the UK . actually , we have see more severe consequence on the continent . it be right to draw the House ' s attention to the decision that the SNP Government be take , which have an impact on increase food price . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since last update the House , we have continue to bring forward measure to place great prioritisation on food production and food security . that include deliver a key National Farmers Union ask for a food security index , commit to the Farm to fork summit as an annual event , and the large ever round of grant for farmer , worth £ 427 million , announce by the Prime Minister to drive great productivity . we be also consult on fair food label to ensure that our british farmer be fairly reward . we be announce today a consultation on the next phase of our tuberculosis eradication strategy , which include cull in high - risk area , and this week I announce that my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) be conduct a review into public sector food procurement . furthermore , we be take action to hold water company to account more strongly , which include a fourfold increase in inspection and consult on ban bonus for company that commit serious criminal breach . we be work at pace with the devolved administration on the banning of wet wipe . as we cover early , we continue to address the threat from the bluetongue virus . I can confirm to the House that I have act on the representation of my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) on extend the neuter deadline for XL Bully dog by some month , from 30 January 2024 until 30 June 2025 . finally , tomorrow the Minister responsible for nature will announce the successful bid for species restoration grant , build on the progress on biodiversity net gain . we have only 10 minute for topical . that be the problem . be my right hon . friend aware that the inflexibility , bureaucracy and cost of the seasonal poultry worker scheme make it prohibitive for business such as Kelly Turkeys in my constituency to hire labour for just a few week in the run - up to Christmas ? will he urge the Home Office to include it within the exist seasonal agricultural worker scheme , thus allow producer to use labour that be already in the country ? my right hon . friend raise an important point . of course , there be 2 , 000 seasonal worker visa to meet the demand in the run - up to Christmas . he will know that from my time as the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , when I deal with the issue of turkey supply before Christmas , I be happy to look at that issue . he be talk about a finite period , and I will make those representation to Home Office colleague . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last month , I visit Newcastle - under - Lyme with local campaigner Adam Jogee to meet resident who be literally choke on toxic fume from the Walleys Quarry landfill site . More than 10 , 000 resident have complain about the stench , and a five - year - old child end up in hospital . will the Secretary of State publish all correspondence between DEFRA , the Environment Agency and the operator , so that resident in Newcastle - under - Lyme can see why the site have not be close down ? no one could have do more to highlight the issue than the constituency MP . indeed , the Minister with responsibility for water have already be to Walleys Quarry to look at first hand . have speak directly to the chief executive of the Environment Agency , I know that everything that can be do within the law be be do . that be the assurance that the Minister and I have have from the chief exec of the Environment Agency . indeed , enforcement action be take recently at that specific site . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on fishery . I welcome the limited help that the Department be give to a few pollack - catch hand - liner , but it will not help the vast majority of fisherman in my constituency who rely on that stock . will the Minister speak to the Treasury to see whether there be any way to look at compensation for those boat , or at least at decommissioning help ? the Government recognise the huge challenge face by pollack fisher . we be try to offer funding to help those most affected . I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s campaign and that of my hon . friend the Members for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) and for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) in raise the issue . we be help those fisherman through the fishery and seafood scheme , as well as with a new scientific study , but the Secretary of State and I be personally look at what other option may be available to help and support . I know that my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) will continue her pursuit of this issue and support for her constituent . the public have the right to access just 8 % of land in England , include thousand of access island that can only be reach by trespassing . with polling now show that 62 % of the public support the extension of the right to roam through England , be the Government now prepare to commit to overhaul our outdated system of access right and to follow Scotland in enshrine the right to roam in law ? the hon . Gentleman ' s question merely highlight a fundamental difference between the Front Benchers of the two party : I want to work with farmer , which be why through SFI — the sustainable farming incentive — we be look at permissive access , where we pay incentive to farmer to provide access to their land ; but labour would impose a top - down requirement with the right to roam , rather than work constructively with our farmer and landowner , which be the approach that the Conservatives be take . Lowestoft be the large town in the UK without formal flood defence , with the tidal barrier project on hold due to cost increase . I be most grateful to Ministers for consider the compelling case to fill the funding gap that would enable a scheme to proceed that will protect property and unleash the provision of new home and business opportunity . will the Secretary of State assure I that he will leave no stone unturned in work across Government so that the project can restart ? I pay tribute to the amazing campaign lead by my hon . friend on behalf of those in his constituency . already , £ 80 million of support have be secure from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs for that scheme . he will be aware that the local authority have change the scope and drive the cost , so there be a question as to what contribution be make by partner , but he be a formidable champion of the scheme and £ 80 million have already be allocate . hedge - row provide a crucial habitat for nearly 130 priority specie , include some red - list bird , and they be a carbon store . when cross - compliance end on 1 January this year , long - stand legal protection for agricultural hedgerow cease to apply , end the 2 metre buffer strip and the no - cut period . the Government commit to reinstate important protection , so will minister explain when the Government will lay legislation to close gap in hedgerow protection urgently , in particular as bird - nest season be under way ? the hon . Lady be slightly behind the time . we have commit to protect our hedgerow in law in England . we carry out a consultation , and this measure be extremely popular with our farmer , because we know how much they value hedgerow . they will be protect with those regulation , include the 2 metre buffer strip from the centre of the hedge , and all the rule and regulation on what can and can not be do , and the cutting ban . we be fully behind that . we be work on the fight to protect nature , and that will be part of get to our nature target . I thank the Minister responsible for water for come to Vale Road in Colwick recently to meet resident affect by flooding . I know that that meeting be very much appreciated . will the Minister reassure I that he and his Department will carry on work with I to continue to improve flood defence in Colwick and across Nottinghamshire , so that the resident can sleep a little well at night ? I be glad to visit Colwick and meet resident along Vale Road to hear about the impact of recent flooding , not only on they but on resident of the wide area . I will continue to work with my hon . friend and with Nottinghamshire County Council . this be not the only area that he be interested in ; he have also be work with my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) to focus on Lambley and Woodborough as well . that work will build on the £ 51 million that have already be allocate to Nottinghamshire County Council and be already well protect 15 , 000 property . for my constituent in Bradford , food price have soar along with the rise cost of living . the increase have recently reach a peak of 19 . 1 % — the big in almost 50 year — make it increasingly difficult for family in Bradford to make end meet . what do the Minister have to say to my constituent , who be now pay far more for their weekly shop , not just because of inflation but because the Tory Government have fail over 14 year to implement a proper food strategy to support UK farmer , and have put in place damage barrier to trade with the rest of Europe ? I have a really clear message for his constituent : we be stick to the plan , which be bring inflation down — that be what the Chancellor set out in the Budget ; the number be clear on how inflation have come down — and we be not risk go back to square one , as the hon . Gentleman ' s party would propose . my right hon . friend the Minister be very aware of the concern raise by the seafood processing and catch sector about recent proposal by the Migration Advisory Committee to remove key occupation from shortage occupation list . what engagement have he have with the Home Office to ensure that the occupation on which our food security and coastal community depend be adequately and meaningfully support ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his campaigning again on behalf of his constituent . we continue to work with our friend in the Home Office to ensure that the fishing sector in Scotland and around the UK get the labour that it require to deliver top - quality british fish to the marketplace . I will continue to have those discussion with the Home Office to ensure that we get to the right place . I be pleased to play a small part in pass the Animals ( Low - Welfare Activities Abroad ) Act 2023 , but the Government continue to delay its implementation , while 550 , 000 captive wild animal suffer in tourist entertainment around the world . one example be that of elephant in Thailand , many of which suffer complex post - traumatic stress disorder because of the psychological and physical abuse that they endure daily . UK company may still advertise and sell ticket for activity that involve elephant that be force to perform for tourist . will the Minister assure I that the conversation will be launch as soon as possible and that the regulation will include a ban on the advertising and selling of elephant tourism ? future decision on which animal activity will fall into the scope of the legislation will need to be evidence - base and subject to parliamentary scrutiny . the Government continue to make animal welfare a priority . we be currently explore a number of option to ensure that there be progress as soon as be practicable . the Secretary of State be bring forward a system of extend producer responsibility to obligate brand owner , include food supplier , to bear the cost of recycle the packaging that they place on the market . however , in some estimate , the cost to obligate business will be 10 time high than under the current packaging waste recycling note system . give that the cost will need to be pass to consumer , do the Minister share the concern that it will contribute to food price inflation ? it be good to meet my hon . friend just this week to discuss that issue . I encourage all those in the packaging sector , and those involve in the industry , to keep feed information to my official . we be review EPR at the moment — we have a dedicated roll - out plan for it — but we be very keen to hear from the industry . the Government promise to ban plastic in wet wipe nearly a year ago , on 3 April last year , but there be still no ban in place . will the Minister protect nature by ban plastic in wet wipe now ? I be extremely keen to get the ban on wet wipe deliver . have the hon . Lady speak to her colleague in the Welsh Labour Government ? as she know , these thing need to go through with agreement from the devolved administration . I can assure she that I be press very hard on that , and hope to have something to announce very soon . [ interruption . ] I will take the chuntering from the Labour Front Benchers into those discussion . minister be already aware of the success of my quarterly water summit , which have cause Anglian Water to beat the Government target for reduce storm overflow by five year and to pilot all - year - round testing of our bathing water . however , one agency consistency fail to attend : the Environment Agency . will the Minister come to the next summit and bring the Environment Agency with he ? there be no doughtier champion than my hon . friend , who have be lobby I on this issue . I be happy to commit to the Environment Agency attend her next summit , and I will also attend in person . british farmer produce some of the very good produce in the world , but the trend in supermarket sell it be go in the wrong direction . will the Minister support Liberal Democrat proposal to invest an additional £ 1 billion in british farming , and reform environmental land management scheme so that they genuinely incentivise sustainable farming ? I agree with the hon . gentleman that british farmer produce among the good food in the world , but I do not agree that the trend be deteriorate — quite the opposite . we have the Buy british campaign , which a number of supermarket have already sign up to ; the public sector review — the Quince review — be under way ; and we be look at labelling , and how we well empower consumer to buy food with good animal welfare standard . there be a lot of progress , and it reflect the great standard we have for british food . can my hon . friend update the House on the response to the consultation on the 27 bid for bathing water status — one of which , of course , be for the River Nidd and the lido in Knaresborough ? my official have be inundate with a huge number of response to the consultation on the 27 bathing water site . my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner for the River Nidd ; I can not say anything at the moment , but he will not have to wait too long before hear the outcome . Lidl have become the first supermarket to roll out a deposit return scheme across the whole city of Glasgow . will the Secretary of State commend Lidl on do what he block the Scottish Government from roll out across Scotland ? I always commend supermarket that be be innovative , but part of the problem with the initiative in Scotland be the amount of push - back from industry . that be why the Scottish Government pull it . extended producer responsibility will add financial burden to amazing food producer , such as Wilkin & Sons in Tiptree in my constituency , so can the Secretary of State say what he be do to keep financial cost down and reduce red tape for great british food manufacturer ? as my right hon . friend know , we be kindre spirit in try to keep the amount of red tape and regulation down . indeed , on a visit to Tiptree just a couple of week ago , I look at method of automation that bring the cost of food production down . my right hon . friend will have hear the comment from the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , who have responsibility for water : a consultation on these issue be live , and as a formidable constituency champion , I know that my right hon . friend will ensure that any concern about cost be raise in that consultation . Attorney General the Attorney General be ask — International Humanitarian Law what discussion she have with her israeli and palestinian counterpart on compliance with international humanitarian law during her visit to the middle east in February 2024 . what discussion she have with her israeli and palestinian counterpart on compliance with international humanitarian law during her visit to the middle east in February 2024 . what discussion she have with her israeli and palestinian counterpart on compliance with international humanitarian law during her visit to the middle west in February 2024 . what discussion she have with her israeli and palestinian counterpart on compliance with international humanitarian law during her visit to the middle east in February 2024 . what discussion she have with her israeli and palestinian counterpart on compliance with international humanitarian law during her visit to the middle east in February 2024 . I visit Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories between 14 and 16 February . in Israel , I meet Israel ' s Attorney General , lawyer for the Israel Defence Forces , and the president of the Supreme Court . in the west bank , I meet the Palestinian Attorney General and the Prime Minister . history will not judge kindly when ask whether we do everything we could to prevent possible genocide in Gaza , give the scale of suffering bring about by weapon , disease , hunger , and in the light of the International Court of Justice ' s interim order on restraint . when the Attorney General meet the official that she refer to , do she clarify that under the genocide convention , the ICJ order must be adhere to fully , and do she give any indication that the UK will cease participate in arm sale to Israel until that happen ? I know that the hon . Lady care very deeply about this region — she and I have visit it together . I reassure she that my discussion with those I meet , both in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , be very frank , and I be confident that our message be deliver clearly . I make clear the importance of international humanitarian law be respect , civilian be protect , and compliance with the Geneva convention when it come to detainee . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , have state that the Government respect the ICJ ' s independence and role , but do not think that its ruling of plausible genocide be helpful . give the forcible displacement taking place , the demolition of home and structure , the near famine in Gaza , and the expansion of illegal settlement in the occupy west bank worsen daily , how do the Attorney General — who have see all this stuff with her own eye — propose to uphold international law before it be too late ? the hon . Lady and I serve on the Justice Committee together , and I know that she share my deep feeling that we must do everything we can to make sure that international humanitarian law be respect in the region . the UK have repeatedly raise with Israel the need to limit operation to military target , to protect health facility , and to avoid harm civilian . the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have repeatedly raise those matter with their counterpart . the UK Government ' s less than wholehearte endorsement of the ICJ process and the International Criminal Court war crime investigation , which be lead by british lawyer , mean that the alternative be that people increasingly turn to violence . that be the view of the israeli civil society organisation that come to meet we yesterday , with the co - operation of Yachad . we have to uphold international law . will the Attorney General recommit to both those process ? the hon . Gentleman have long campaign on these issue , so I know that he feel particularly passionately about the region as well . I be absolutely happy to commit this government once again to uphold , where ever we can , international humanitarian law . across this House , there be a great deal of consensus : we want the fighting to stop now . we be call for an immediate pause to get aid in and the hostage out , and then to progress to a permanent ceasefire . we applaud the part of the ICJ ' s provisional measure order that call for exactly that . it be seven week since the ICJ issue its interim ruling on Israel ' s conduct in Gaza . the Netanyahu Government have fail to comply with that ruling , and we be still wait for the UK Government to urge they to do so . will the Attorney General today call on Israel to take the step it be order to take by the Court ? we do not feel that that case be particularly helpful at this moment in the negotiation . we absolutely respect the ICJ — I have appear there myself — and we of course understand that the interim measure order be bind on the party . as I say to the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , element of that order be extremely sensible , and we wholeheartedly respect they . we call , as the ICJ have do , for aid to go in and the hostage to come out immediately . that be the right way to proceed if we be ever to achieve a permanent ceasefire and , ultimately , a resolution of this dreadful conflict . however , we do not think term such as " genocide " , without a formal final ruling of the Court , be particularly helpful to use . I welcome the Attorney General ' s strong condemnation of settler violence against Bedouin community in the occupied Palestinian Territories , and I also welcome the sanction recently impose on some of those involve in the violence . base on her recent visit , do she think that there be a need to go far and sanction those extremist israeli politician who be encourage the violent and illegal expansion of settlement ? when I visit the region with the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) many year ago , we see some of the action of settler in the occupy territory . so far as I be able to , I reprise that visit when I go to the region most recently , and I be surprised at the difference in the level of violence use . I be able to visit a Bedouin village and talk to those who feel that at a very difficult time for the farming community , during lamb , they be be push off their land . I listen very carefully to what the hon . Gentleman say , and I reassure he that the Government continue to keep this issue under review . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I welcome the Attorney General ' s comment . I think every one of we share the desire for the fighting to stop , and respect for the International Court of Justice . however , do she agree that it be important to be careful when we use legal term in broad political debate ? for example , the test of plausibility in the jurisprudence of the International Court of Justice be essentially about the admissibility of a claim , rather than its ultimate merit . the Court itself have describe that , in a judgment involve Myanmar , as a " low threshold " . it be important not to make more of a preliminary finding than we should before final litigation be complete . as ever , the Chairman of the Select Committee make a very important point , and may I take this opportunity to congratulate he from the Dispatch Box on become an honorary KC , which I understand will happen on Monday ? I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in say that he be extremely worthy of this very significant honour , and we be all thrill that it will be give . he do make an important point : word really matter ; there will shortly be a statement to the House about that , and about the meaning of the term " extremism . " it be very important that we all choose our word carefully , particularly when it come to this long - run and difficult conflict . we respect the ruling of the ICJ — of course we do — but that do not mean that we think every case before it be well bring . on the issue of international convention , treaty and international law , include international humanitarian law and the international refugee convention , will the Attorney General place in the Library over the weekend a legal statement on the circumstance in which international law be trump by clear and unambiguous word in an Act of Parliament ? will she include in that statement the necessary citation from the Supreme Court and the House of Lords ? my hon . friend be a great and long - stand Member of this House , and be able to ask question the answer to which might not automatically be obvious . we be talk here about palestinian and israeli counterpart be in compliance with international law , but I be of course delight to say again to my hon . friend that this Government be commit to international law — we have say that repeatedly from the Dispatch Box — and I do not see any need to lay a statement such as he suggest , but I will continue to enjoy our conversation on this topic . this week , in the other place , the Foreign Secretary say on the tragic conflict in the middle east : " you have to obey the rule and obey the law " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 12 March 2024 ; Vol . 836 , c . 1915 . ] that be an important affirmation from this government that Israel both have a right to self - defence and very much have a duty to obey international humanitarian law . can the Attorney General reaffirm that the Government will continue to stress both that right and that duty in this conflict , which we all want to end as soon as possible ? my hon . friend make an excellent point , and I would not like any Member of this House to be in any doubt : we all , across this House , want the fighting to stop now . that message be deliver by the Government on behalf of the House and the nation repeatedly and loudly . we be call for an immediate pause to get aid in and hostage out , and then progress to a permanent ceasefire . we need five thing to happen : the release of the hostage ; the formation of a new palestinian Government ; Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack stop ; Hamas to no long be in charge of Gaza ; and a credible pathway to a two - state solution . I think we can all get behind that . victim of Crime what step the Crown Prosecution Service be take to improve the experience of victim of crime . the Crown Prosecution Service be transform the way that it support victim . the victim transformation programme will roll out this spring ; under it , for example , every rape victim will receive an invitation to meet their prosecution team before their case go to trial . the tension result from the conflict in Israel and Gaza be cause an escalation in hate crime . what progress be my hon . and learn Friend make alongside the CPS to ensure that the victim of these crime — indeed , the victim of any hate crime — receive full support , and that the perpetrator be prosecute ? my hon . friend raise the absolutely key point , which be the support give to victim . the programme that the CPS be roll out include a programme for close work between the police and the CPS , to support victim . he will be pleased to know that in the rolling year to September 2023 , the CPS prosecute 12 , 508 hate crime offence , with a charge rate of 86 % and a conviction rate of 84 % , and in 78 % of those case , the judge increase the offender ' s sentence because they agree that it be a hate crime . do the Minister agree that some of the most tragic case be those in which a family member be murder ? in that context , could coroner court and the coroner system be modernise ? the time that some of my constituent have to wait because of coroner court delay be unacceptable . the hon . member raise a key point . there be nothing more tragic than the circumstance he outline . I be happy to meet he to talk about any specific case concern he have , but more broadly , I be acutely aware of the pressure , and I will look at whether there be anything I can do to ensure that the pressure and stress on his constituent be alleviate . I call the shadow Attorney General . I be absolutely certain that the Attorney General and the Solicitor General will have be as shock as I be to read this week ' s report by researcher at Warwick University on the recent handling of rape case by the CPS . in far too many area , the picture it paint be simply appal : poor communication , poor quality control , poor decision - making , outdated attitude , stereotype and victim blaming , add to the constant problem of staff be overwork and under - resource . the one positive be that it be the CPS that commission the report in the first place . it have not shy away from the finding , and researcher be clear that the roll - out of Operation Soteria will take thing in the right direction . do the Law officer agree that we simply can not leave thing there ? will they undertake to come back to the House with an action plan base on the finding of this report , and a clear timetable for its implementation ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for raise that . I be horrify by a great number of the finding . there be clearly a lot of work here . thing be clearly move in the right direction , and much of the work be undertake by the CPS be on liaise with victim and ensure that their experience be as easy as possible , in the hugely traumatic circumstance . there be a lot more to do on joint working , but I be happy to continue liaise with she , in order to update she as this go forward . victim of Crime what step the Crown Prosecution Service be take to improve the experience of victim of crime in Kettering constituency . my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that CPS East Midlands be now make charge decision for rape case more quickly . in 2022 and 2023 , the area be perform well than the national average on reduce victim attrition . I thank the Crown Prosecution Service for the work it do in prosecute offender and seek justice for victim in Kettering . what overall assessment have the Solicitor General make of the effectiveness of the CPS across the east midland ? the Attorney General visit the CPS East Midlands office in Leicester just last month , and she tell I that she be impressed to hear about the work that prosecutor have be undertake to tackle recent and historical instance of child sexual abuse in particular , secure lengthy sentence for the perpetrator . that be an excellent example of the importance of joint working between prosecutor and the police , which I have refer to . rise — be you the shadow MP for Kettering or something ? I hope this be link to the question . I welcome the Minister ' s answer . the Minister be responsible not only for Kettering and the east midland , but for the United Kingdom . what one - to - one support can be offer to victim of sexual crime across the United Kingdom , to improve their experience of the criminal justice system ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his ingenuity in manage to squeeze that in . that be an excellent bit of Order Paper operation . I be happy to meet he to talk about what we be do in his area to smooth the experience of victim of crime who have to go through the criminal justice system . they have suffer trauma already ; the system should not add to that . People traffic what step the Crown Prosecution Service be take to prosecute people for the trafficking of vulnerable adult and child into the UK . the CPS have specially train prosecutor who work closely with law enforcement agency to bring to justice those who commit the heinous crime to which the hon . Lady refer . the CPS have , for example , recently obtain conviction in the first prosecution for traffic people for organ harvesting . that present many complex and difficult challenge , and I commend the team in the CPS for their work on that . last year , the number of potential UK victim of modern slavery reach a record level , with referral for woman and child both at all - time high . in 2022 , the average wait for a first decision in modern slavery case be six day . in 2023 , it be 23 day . modern slavery be get bad , not well , and now the UK Government be actively make progress on seek to strip people of modern slavery protection . when will the Government accept that this be a crisis , and take the urgent action need ? the hon . Lady be quite right to draw attention to the seriousness of this crime , but the Government accept the urgency , which be why , for example , we have the CPS available to provide early advice to law enforcement in exactly the case that she refer to . we have specialist prosecutor provide that advice , so that we have the right advice and the right charge against the right people at the right time . I call the shadow Solicitor General even in freeze condition at the start of the year , thousand more man , woman and child cross the channel in small boat . for all the talk that the threat of deportation to Rwanda will act as a deterrent , there be no evidence whatsoever of that deterrent work . perhaps that be why the Government have change tack and plan a £ 3 , 000 incentive for refugee to get on plane to Rwanda . do the Solicitor General now accept that the only way to stop the boat be to crush the trafficking gang and prosecute the criminal ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right that the country face a major challenge from the cruel people - smuggle gang who be exploit people financially and emotionally . we have to put an end to that . the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill have pass through this House , but there will be further opportunity for debate on its return here . what he have underline be how important it be that we take action : I agree , and that be what we be do . I call the SNP spokesperson . last week , the Prime Minister ' s flagship Rwanda Bill be defeat 10 time in the House of Lords , with call for the UK Government to protect victim of modern slavery and human trafficking from be remove to Rwanda without their consent until a decision , base on conclusive ground , about their safety and not be place at risk of be re - trafficked have be complete . do the Solicitor General not understand that modern slavery protection for vulnerable child and adult appear to be expendable under his government ? the Bill will be come back to the Commons next week , when there will be an opportunity to debate those issue far . however , I point out that the treaty between the Government of Rwanda and the UK include specific provision that address the need for protection and support for victim of trafficking . application of Genocide Convention whether she have have recent discussion with the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs on UK compliance with international humanitarian law in the context of the International Court of Justice ' s order in the case on the application of the genocide convention in Gaza . regular at Attorney General ' s question know that the Law officer convention prevent I from disclose outside Government whether or not I have provide advice and the specific of that advice . colleague also know that I take seriously my obligation to ensure that the Government be act in a lawful manner on both domestic and international front . I have listen to the Attorney General , and she will know that the UK Government , as a signatory to the genocide convention , have a clear responsibility not only to punish but — under article 1 — to undertake to prevent genocide , as one of the grave crime under international law . give that the Government will still sell arm to the israeli military after the International Court of Justice find the action in Gaza to be plausibly in breach of the genocide convention , what legal advice have she provide to the Foreign Office that allow she to fulfil the legal obligation to prevent genocide at the same time as sell arm ? if the ICJ ultimately rule that it be genocide , and it be prove that civilian have be kill by UK - sell arm , do that not leave the UK complicit in genocide ? I believe that I deal early with the substance of the hon . Gentleman ' s question . we respect the independence of the ICJ . we have considerable concern about this case , which be not helpful in the goal of achieve a sustainable ceasefire . we accept that the Court have make a provisional measure order , much of which we wholeheartedly agree with . we would suggest , however , that term such as genocide not be bandy about until there have be a final ruling of the Court . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman ask from a sedentary position what advice I have provide . I have explain clearly why I can not answer that . however , with your leave , Mr Speaker , I will take he through some of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s decision - make process to inform the Department for Business and Trade on export licensing . the fcdo continue to assess Israel ' s commitment and capability to comply with IHL . the assessment be support by a detailed evidence base , include analysis of the conflict , report from NGOs , international body and partner country , statement from the israeli Government and military representative , and Israel ' s track record . we have ask the Government of Israel specific question on their approach to comply with IHL — I do some of that myself to help inform that advice . application for export licence be assess on a case - by - case basis against strategic export licensing criterion , include with regard to IHL — that be a major part of that assessment . we keep licence under careful and continue review . the Government can amend , suspend , refuse or revoke licence as circumstance require . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 18 March will include : Monday 18 March — proceeding on the Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . Tuesday 19 March — remain stage of the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 20 March — Second reading of the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill . Thursday 21 March — general debate on the report of the Defence Committee and Public Accounts Committee on armed force readiness and defence equipment , follow by general debate on the report of the Environmental Audit Committee , the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee on food security . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee on the recommendation of the Liaison Committee . Friday 22 March — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 25 March include : Monday 25 March — remain stage of the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 26 March — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by debate on a motion relate to the national policy statement for national network . the House will rise for the Easter recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 26 March and return on Monday 15 April . first , I pay tribute to Tommy McAvoy , the former Member for Rutherglen . Tommy be a legend of the Labour Whips Office , and the long ever serve Government Whip . he be highly respected and revere . my thought be with his family and friend . despite the King ' s Speech be only a few month ago , the Government seem to be run scared from their own legislative programme . where have all their flagship Bills go ? we hear that the Renters ( Reform ) Bill be be hold to ransom , on the brink of collapse because the Government will not stand up to landlord on their own side and end no - fault eviction . second Reading and Committee stage happen in November , but there have be nothing since . that be a manifesto commitment , so when will we get Report stage ? if the government do not end no - fault eviction , we will . the Prime Minister ' s personal pledge , to much fanfare , of a smokefree generation also seem to have go up in smoke . where be the Bill ? we have offer the Government Labour ' s vote , and they should take they . the Victims and Prisoners Bill be languish in the Lords . be that because the government do not want the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) on infected blood to be agree to ? if that be so , it be pretty shameful . will the Leader of the House promise Government support for the amend Bill ? when will we finally see detail of the compensation scheme ? the Sentencing Bill be also stick in limbo . we have be wait for week for its Committee stage . be it another victim of this wear - out government ? apparently , the Justice Secretary and the Prime Minister be at loggerhead over how to proceed , while this week the Government sneak out further plan to release criminal early because they have lose control of prison place . be that not exactly what member should be scrutinise during the passage of the Bill ? will the Leader of the House bring it back ? much need and long herald legislation to regulate english football be still nowhere to be see . just this week , the Premier League shelve a new financial settlement for the football pyramid , and the English Football League be respond today . do the Leader of the House not agree that new power to impose a fair deal for small club can not come soon enough ? fan in Bury , Macclesfield , Derby , reading , Scunthorpe and , may I add , Portsmouth want their precious club save . if the Conservatives want to make this an election issue in those place , I say bring it on . let we be really clear : if they do not want to regulate football governance , then we will . I notice the Leader of the House have not announce any further provision beyond Monday for ping - pong on the emergency Rwanda legislation . be that because it have now be push back to after Easter ? some emergency ! to be honest , I do not want to hear " as parliamentary time allow " when there be an abundance of it . do we really need time on the Floor of the House for so many statutory instrument or Committee stage of the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill ? the Government have the time , but on those issue and more they do not have the support of their own side . it be as if they do not have the number . with every week that pass , their majority get small and small . this week , it be another defection . but the reason for their dwindle number do not make for pretty reading . in no particular order : tractor porn , drug abuse , a conviction for paedophilia , break parliamentary rule on pay lobbying , grope , mislead Parliament , flash at staff , tantrum because they be not give peerage , and eat camel penis . it might sound ridiculous , but it be actually not funny . it all bring Parliament into disrepute and drag our politic through the gutter . and now , this week , we have have overt racism from the conservative party ' s big donor . I have to check for myself yesterday that the Prime Minister really say that he be " pleased " — he be pleased — that this man , who say a black woman MP should be shoot and that Indians should climb on the roof of train , support his party . be the Leader of the House please ? will she use his resource in her marginal Portsmouth North constituency ? surely , if he be a racist , which he clearly be , he have no place in the Conservative party and his money should be give back . the truth be that the Conservatives can not implement their own legislative programme . they have lose control . as the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) say last night : " the conservative party be unleadable and … for the sake of the nation , it ' s well to go early than allow this psychodrama to continue . " he ' s right , isn ' t he ? may I start by wish all who be mark it in the UK and around the world a bless Ramadan ? I join the tribute pay by the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) to Tommy McAvoy . I be sure many member will pay tribute to he in the come day and week . I also thank my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) for her service and friendship over many year . this House may be lose she , but I know she have many more year of public service ahead of she . the hon . member for Manchester Central focus first on the legislative programme . she will know that 26 Bills have already be introduce in this Session and that four have reach Royal Assent . she will know that last Session we do 43 Bills , and break many record in term of private member ' Bills and the amount of legislation we be able to get through . she will know the passage of the Bills that be go through both Houses at the moment , and she will also know that we will shortly bring through a Bill on football governance . this be a programme of work that we initiate follow a review that be conduct with the help of many club around the country . when we bring legislation to the House , it will need to have the confidence of the English Football League , and , have attend many event with the EFL myself , I know that that be clear and understand . the hon . Lady claim that the Conservatives have no energy leave for legislation , suggest that we be not bring measure forward and that we be a zombie Parliament , but I be afraid that it be the Opposition who be the zombie in this Chamber . the House rise early when the opposition be not oppose . the Committee stage of the Finance Bill be complete in 30 minute , and in recent time the Opposition have find it hard even to find speaker for their own debate . it be they who be display zombie tendency . it be often tempting to refer to the Leader of the Opposition as the Knight of the Living Dead , and in stark contrast I commend the always energetic and vibrant stance take by my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) ; I think the point he be make in that interview be that the plan be work . let I now come to the very serious issue that the hon . Lady raise about Mr Hester ' s remark . they be racist and abhorrent , and — I fully appreciate — threaten to the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , who I understand have refer the matter to the police . my party be finance by fundraising and donation — notably money raise from raffle — include donation from private individual . there might be some who would come to this Dispatch Box today and attempt to argue that such a refund be not practically possible or warrant , but I be not go to attempt to do that . the point that the hon . Lady have make be not concerned with the practicality of a refund , the consequence to the payroll of Conservative Campaign Headquarters , or the ability of my party to fight a general election . no , no ; it be a point of principle , and I respect that . she could not have be clear in what she have say today . she have state that it be wrong to take fund from people who say horrible thing , no matter when they be say , and that when there be an issue , fund should be return . she have be clear about that today , and she have say that that be the right thing to do . if , for example , someone say of Hamas that one man ' s terrorist be another man ' s freedom fighter , as Dale Vince have say , or say that my colleague and I should be " take out and shoot " , as the RMT union boss Steve Hedley have say , the hon . Lady would presumably think it wrong to hang on to fund donate to labour by they — or by an organisation brand " institutionally sexist " . I believe that during Tim Roache ' s time as GMB general secretary , when he run what have be describe as a " cast couch culture " — menace young woman in the union — the Labour party take 12 million quid from he . those three charmer alone have contribute £ 15 million to the Labour party , and presumably , immediately follow this session , the hon . Lady will demand that it be repay . to be precise , and to assist she in that matter , let I add that those donation be make directly to the central Labour party , Labour mp , member of the Scottish Parliament , councillor , the Mayor of Manchester — she might like to mention that this weekend — the deputy leader of the Labour party , and the Leader of the Opposition . if Labour be sincere and this it be not a political stunt , it will commit itself to repay those fund , and there would be some additional upside to do so . the scurrilous suggestion that labour ' s pro " stop oil " policy be anything to do with Mr Vince ' s donation could no long be deploy , and nor could the charge that Labour Members would not support our legislation to protect the public ' s access to the service they pay for because their party be in the pocket of militant trade union — but I be not hold my breath , because I know that Labour member say one thing and do another . they have drop their £ 28 billion decarbonisation spending pledge , yet they keep the policy . they say that they will not tolerate pro - genocide chant , yet they have restore the whip to the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) . they say that they back our tax cut but they will not vote for they , and as a consequence they now can not say how they would fund NHS appointment , breakfast club , nhs equipment , dentistry appointment , home insulation , their own state - own energy company , and their wealth fund . no amount of confected drama and virtue signalling can disguise the fact that it be the same old Labour party , the same old hypocrisy and the same old game . this week , in the real world outside the Westminster bubble , which be where we be focused , cancer death among middle - aged people be down by a third , revise forecast show that the economy be grow and , for the eighth month in a row , real wage be rise . the plan be work , unlike labour ' s line of attack , and my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne be very excited about it . I call the Father of the House . it be good to hear inclusive politic . may I ask the Leader of the House whether , follow consultation , there might be a statement before or after Easter on inclusivity in Parliament ? we rightly want to embrace and value difference and diversity , whether of a person ' s race , gender , other characteristic , background or experience . the word that be miss be " sex " . over the last five year , those who be gender critical have raise all sort of issue , include the constant use of puberty blocker for child and the attack on the LGB Alliance for not swallow what Stonewall and Mermaids persuade many Government Departments and agency to do , which be to disregard sex completely . while want to support trans people and make sure that they can have a life free from bigotry and fear , would it be possible for the House to examine its own policy on inclusiveness and try to ensure that the word " sex " be include along with the other characteristic for which people should not be discriminate against ? my hon . friend raise a very important point , and I know that many member of the House of Commons Commission will have hear what he have say . this be a very important matter . when the Government have put forward measure — for example , to protect single - sex space , which be important and value by many people in this country — we have also be reassure about what that mean for trans people and those live in a different gender . it be perfectly possible to do both , and I think that the House have a further focus on the issue be a very good suggestion . I call the SNP spokesperson . may I , too , wish everyone a happy Ramadan and pay my respect to the family of Tommy McAvoy ? well , here we be again : try to get the answer that the Leader of the House do not want to — and indeed never do — supply to our sticky , inconvenient question . I will begin with the dream that dare not speak its name here : Brexit . the Resolution Foundation tell we that the UK ' s good export and import have contract by far more than those of any other G7 country , largely due to Brexit . thing be now so dire in Brexitland that even news of a GDP uplift of just 0 . 2 % be fall upon by brexiteer like starve pigeon on the crust of the stale bread . the conservative party aim to shrink suffer public service even far , as evidence in last week ' s Budget , so should there not be some discussion , or even a debate , about the huge uplift in civil service job that Brexit seem to have require since the EU referendum in 2016 ? despite all the glorious promise of strength and environmental protection in this free , fair and well - off Britian , we be see green policy abandon right , left and centre by both the Tory and labour party . a hapless Minister even try to tell we yesterday that build new gas - power plant be good for the environment — a suggestion that seem to be support by shadow Environment Ministers too . once again , Labour present one face down here and entirely another up in Scotland . frustratingly , all the warn sign of Brexit impact , across a huge range of sector , come in bit and piece . surely what be need be for the Government to collate all the impact and present the result to the british people , so that they can properly judge whether Brexit have be a success . can the Leader of the House help to facilitate that ? there be a little good news this week : hopefully , there will be some proper Government redress for victim of the shocking Post Office Horizon scandal , although there be still no comfort for the infected blood scandal victim . I meet the International Consortium of British Pensioners recently , and I fear that another scandal be about to break in the form of frozen pension . there be now so many scandal that it be hard to keep track . something do not work in this place if so many can build up under successive government of different political hue . unfortunately , the Leader of the House ' s party distinguish itself again this week by choose money over morality in its grubby handling of the racist comment allegedly make about one of our colleague in this House . at the very least , a debate to re - examine how party be fund be call for . the " seven up ! " series be recently deem to be the most influential television series of the last 50 year . well , 14 year be well and truly up for this terrible government , but apparently we can not be put out of our Tory misery yet because their junior member have debt and need the extra month to build up some reserve . do the Leader of the House agree that that be not much of an excuse ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s welcome of the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill , which I hope her party will support . she know that we will shortly bring forward measure to rectify the situation on infected blood . these scandal do not arise under this Administration , but we have grip the issue . the infected blood issue have be leave for decade , but we have investigate and set up inquiry and be compensate the victim . I hope the House will support we in do so on both matter . the hon . Lady insinuate that I dodge question , but I do not . she say six week ago that she would write to I with a list of all the question I have not answer , but she have not yet do so . the SNP never fail to disappoint . the hon . Lady ask about sound administration and about money over morality , in a week in which it have be discover that the Scottish Government have preside over a six - figure sum of scottish taxpayer ' money be spend on an art installation that promise a " magical , erotic journey through a distinctly scottish landscape . " that be know to the rest of we as a hardcore porn movie . I be glad that the SNP be interested in good governance and improve administration , particularly with reference to Brexit . let I see how I can help to improve the Scottish Government ' s effectiveness in that regard . there have be criticism this week that the SNP be blow taxpayer ' cash on copious embassy and lobby to rejoin the EU . that camper van must be out of the police pound soon , so why not turn it into a mobile embassy that can drive between Brussels and european capital to lobby for EU membership ? if the SNP want to continue fund innovative film project , perhaps it could double up and ask Cliff Richard to come along and produce a sequel to " Summer Holiday " , which would have the add bonus of cut down the SNP ' s need to blow more taxpayer ' cash on overseas jolly . I be here to help . I have a lot of time for the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) , but I need to clear my name . I stride across Victoria Tower Gardens yesterday to put my boot into my miserabilist colleague who be demand an early general election . I say to Gary Gibbon that , with income rise , inflation fall , the economy grow and the plan work , why 2 May ? I be roll up my sleeve to man the rampart in November . my question be : can we have an urgent debate on foot in mouth disease ? " foot in mouth " or " foot and mouth " ? thank you , Mr Speaker . I be pleased that my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) be in the Chamber to set the record straight and to request a debate on foot and mouth disease . because of his energetic question , I will write to the Secretary of State to ask he to consider what my hon . friend have say . as for the rest of what my hon . Friend say , we thank he for it . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I declare an interest , as I be a member of the Tyneside Irish centre , which be handily place because of its proximity to St James ' s Park in Newcastle upon Tyne city centre . with that in mind , I wish all member of the irish diaspora a very happy St Patrick ' s day on Sunday . the Committee be still open for application for Westminster Hall debate on Tuesday morning and Thursday afternoon after the Easter recess , but we be a little disappointed that we have not be allocate a little more Chamber time before the recess . the cost of childcare be a significant barrier to work for many parent , and the increase in fund place will be welcome but , with the first phase come into effect in April , many parent be report difficulty in obtain the promise fund place and very significant cost increase for the non - fund element . can we have a debate in Government time on the impact of the first phase of the scheme ; on the accessibility and affordability of the scheme ; and on whether the scheme , as it currently stand , will effectively remove the childcare barrier to work and fulfil its promise to parent ? I thank the hon . gentleman for all the work he be do for his Committee . I hear his appeal for more time and I will soon be able to give he some information about that . as for our childcare policy , this be a priority for the Secretary of State for Education and I will make sure that she have hear his concern today . it be one of the many element we be bring forward to enable people to remain economically active and grow their household income . it be a very important service , which be why have do this . it be an unprecedented , generous package for parent and we must ensure that all parent who want to access it can do so . yesterday , I host my second parliamentary fertility treatment drop - in , where we have the like of Fertility Matters at work , LGBT Mummies and Fertility Network UK . do my right hon . friend agree that it be time we look at access to fertility treatment and ensure that employer provide time off work for people undertake it ? may we have a debate in Government time to discuss this important subject ? on behalf of all of we , I thank my hon . friend for all the work she do on this important matter . it be primarily an issue for the Department of Health and Social Care , but some of the issue she raise will fall to the Department for Work and Pensions . I will therefore make sure that both secretary of State have hear what she have say today . this be an increasingly a concern and an important matter to many couple , and we must ensure that we be do all we can to support they . may I press the Leader of the House again on the football governance Bill and say how urgent it be ? many of we , on both side of the House , have club in our constituency that have be on the verge of go under , and that situation be only go to get bad . will the Government bring the putative Bill to the Floor of the House as soon as possible ? the hon . Gentleman have my undertaking to do that . it be important that we bring that Bill forward ; the football pyramid , at every level , need to be support . I know that many hon . member will have have a great deal of input into the Bill and we must make sure it be perfect when it come to this House . during a recent visit to the Eastwood Academy , an outstanding non - selective secondary school that aim to help every child fulfil their potential , the head tell I that a year 10 student have be remove from school mid - term in favour of elective home education . the student be do incredibly well , have come from a challenging background . the head have only 10 day to try to engage with the parent and they would not even come into the school for a meeting . please may we have a debate in Government time on the process by which child can suddenly be rip out of school , and an assurance that when child be be electively home educate , they be get the education they rightfully deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . she will appreciate that these situation be often incredibly complicated and involve many factor . however , it be important to ensure that we know where child be and what education they be get . it be particularly important after the pandemic that we ensure that all child be get access to a good education . my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) introduce the Children not in School ( Registers , Support and Orders ) Bill on 11 December and its Second Reading be schedule for Friday . I hope we can ensure that the Bill make progress in this session . it be important and , of course , it would not impede in any way people who want to home educate their child , as many do in a very good way indeed . we have a debate in Westminster Hall on 12 December on arm export licence for sale to Israel . on the same day , the Foreign Secretary decide he be satisfied that there be " good evidence to support a judgment that Israel be commit to comply with IHL " — international humanitarian law . it be Liberal Democrat policy to have a presumption of denial for arm sale to country on the most recent Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office list of territory designate as human right priority country . may we have a debate in Government time on that list of human right priority country , so that we may well interdict iranian arm supply to Hamas and Hezbollah , but also look again at UK arm export to Israel ? I will certainly ensure that the Department for Business and Trade , which have oversight of this matter , be aware of what the hon . Gentleman have say . the House scrutinise the policy and procedure that surround arm export control . we be very transparent and we have one of the most rigorous regime in the world . I be sure that we would welcome further scrutiny of it , because I think it be a sound policy . last week , we see a budget that deliver low taxis and high economic growth . it contain measure , such as freeze fuel duty , support for childcare and change to child benefit , from which area like Gillingham and Rainham will benefit . however , will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to make a statement on how the 20 town centre be choose for levelling - up investment and regeneration , and how the criterion be apply ? Gillingham have not have any funding , despite representation to the Secretary of State , so my constituent , like any other constituent , want to know how the criterion be apply and that decision be make on a fair , open and transparent basis . I thank my hon . friend for be a champion for his constituent , in particular by try to get level - up funding . he will know that the process that assess where funding be direct be independent of Ministers , and that the criterion and grading be transparent . he will also know that where people have not be successful , the Department have quite often work with local authority and member of the House to improve the bid put forward . I encourage my hon . friend to go and talk to the Secretary of State , and I will ensure he know that my hon . friend have raise the issue today . Oldham be a wonderful place but it be not without challenge . the local community be concerned about the number of young people who have be draw into gang activity and who be at risk of child criminal exploitation . figure over the last two year show that 312 young people have be identify as be at risk of exploitation . we have have five section 60 stop and search in place over the last year because of the number of knife incident . can we have a debate in Government time on what be be do in urban area where criminal exploitation be not be check ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important matter . I encourage he to raise it with his local police and crime commissioner , as I be sure he have . I will ensure that the Home Secretary have hear what he have say today , but I would encourage he to address the issue with his local constabulary and the police and crime commissioner . education be the bedrock to level up in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke . I be delighted by the improvement since 2010 , with some 92 % of school now rate " good " or " outstanding " . Mill Hill Primary Academy and New Ford Academy in Smallthorne have both recently receive " outstanding " status . sadly , Labour ' s abysmal and dismal record loom large and haunt Stoke - on - Trent . thank to Labour , 88 school be languish in disastrous private finance initiative deal . recent hike to the charge face those school could put staff livelihood at risk , as well as undermine the very fabric of what we be try to do , which be to turn education around in our great city after Labour ' s abysmal failure . will the Leader of the House assist I in secure an Adjournment debate or a Westminster Hall debate so that I can raise these matter directly with the relevant Department , in order to ensure that those 88 school can and will be protect ? I congratulate my hon . friend , the teacher , the parent and everyone who have work in his constituency to improve education standard . that be very good news indeed . but I know , as a founder member of the " no to PFI " campaign , of the legacy issue with which many public organisation be deal . I know , too , that my hon . friend have be a doughty campaigner on try to get these matter resolve , ensure that the commercial negotiation that need to take place to protect those public service and those work in they be properly under way . give that education question be not until the end of April , I will make sure that what he have say today have be hear by the Secretary of State , and also by the Treasury , which have do much under our Administration to try to rectify the damage that these contract have do . he will know how to apply for a debate . sub - postmaster be rightly be put at the centre of the Government ' s response to the Horizon scandal . last week , the Leader of the House tell I that the Paymaster General be go to tour around the United Kingdom to meet all the group of the infected and affect in the contaminated blood scandal . I have have a letter from the Paymaster General , which do not give I any more information , and all the group be tell I that they have have no contact with the Paymaster General ' s office to organise that tour . it be nine week until Sir Brian Langstaff produce his final report on the infected blood inquiry . can we have a statement from the Paymaster General , so that we can all understand exactly what be happen and what this tour will do ? many people be concerned that it may be a delaying tactic , and we all want to get compensation to those who have be infect and affect by the scandal . I thank the right hon . Lady for raise this matter again . in do so , it send a message to those who have be wait far too long for redress that they be at the forefront of our mind . I meet the Paymaster General again this week . he be make good progress towards get this resolve . I know that this be frustrating for the right hon . Lady and all those involve with her all - party parliamentary group , but the Paymaster General will come to the House to give an update at the first available opportunity . we be now move towards the end of this process . what the Paymaster General have discuss with I have give I confidence in that respect , and he feel strongly that he want to meet people directly . there will be more information come out on that , but I do understand the right hon . Lady ' s impatience . the Leader of the House will know that I welcome the support the Government have give to pensioner , with an 8 . 5 % increase in pension in April and the triple lock remain firmly in place . however , the tax threshold will consume much of the support that pensioner have be give , and the national insurance reduction have do nothing for they . I ask the Leader of the House to arrange an urgent debate on improve the quality of life for pensioner in the United Kingdom who have work hard all their life , contribute to our nation ' s success , and deserve a high - quality retirement . this government can be very proud of their record in this respect . I remember when we come to power in 2010 the appalling maladministration of pension and tax credit that leave many people trap in poverty and misery . the triple lock and uprating of the state pension by 8 . 5 % from April this year will protect pensioner income , and the state pension have increase by £ 3 , 700 since 2010 . it be very important to ensure that people be be lift out of poverty and look after when the cost of living rise due to heating bill and other demand that be make on their purse as they age . we have lift 200 , 000 pensioner out of absolute poverty and improve the life of many more , and that be a record to be proud of . I will make sure that the issue that my hon . friend raise be hear by the Secretary of State . this week , we mark the start of the 40th anniversary of the miner ' strike of 1984 - 85 . tomorrow , I will attempt to bring my Miners ' Strike ( Pardons ) Bill forward in this place and invite the Leader of the House to join I in support it . beyond that , can we make arrangement for a debate in Government time on the potential merit of a public inquiry into the political interference that take place at that time ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on the advert for his Bill ; I wish he well with it . the other issue he raise would be a matter for the Cabinet Office . I understand why he make the point , but I suspect that it will not be on the list of Cabinet Office priority for a public inquiry . can we have a debate on the shocking decision by labour ' s Barnet Council to approve overdevelopment in Victoria Quarter in New Barnet and to concrete over green field in Whalebones Park in high Barnet ? this be a disgraceful decision that demonstrate the ominous situation in the terrible event that Labour be to win power at the general election , because its leader want to bulldoze the green belt as well . I thank my right hon . friend for yet again raise her concern over particular development in her area . she will know that we have work hard to strike the right balance in ensure that we be build to enable people to have cost - effective housing and achieve their ambition of home ownership . she will know that the next levelling up , Housing and Communities question be not until later in April , so I will ensure that the particular local issue that she be campaign on be bring to the attention of the Secretary of State . I want to raise with the Leader of the House a shocking statistic : research show that more than 300 , 000 people die as a result of this Government ' s austerity policy . on top of those death , austerity have drive down wage , cause the economy to stagnate , and rip the heart out of so many public service that our community rely upon . despite that , the Government plan a furth £ 20 billion of cut , so can we have an urgent debate on the specific issue of the damage cause by austerity economic , and why it need to be ditch once and for all ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the opportunity to remind he of the state of the country when we take office in 2010 . youth unemployment be run at 45 % , and there be 400 , 000 more child and 200 , 000 more pensioner in absolute poverty than there be today . in my constituency , my hospital be in the top five for those with MRSA infection . we have crumble school building . the Labour party ' s Building Schools for the Future programme have not do any work , and secondary school be exclude from it — I could go on . the hon . Gentleman point to the fact that if Labour get in , it would repeat that exercise . currently , it be unable in its spending plan to afford NHS appointment , breakfast club , nhs equipment , dentistry appointment , home insulation , the job bonus or its plan for wealth fund and a state - own energy company . we have bring back sound money . the Labour party do not understand that . if he really want to complain about what we have to do to get this country back on track , he should look to his own party and its behaviour pre 2010 . while the shambolic Labour leadership at Kirklees Council be busy fight among themselves , with resignation , sacking , and the jailing of a Labour councillor for pervert the course of justice , can we have a debate on all the million of pound of Government investment that be flow into the Colne and Holme valley and lindley : a brand new A & E unit ; the multibillion pound trans - Pennine rail upgrade ; the West Yorkshire investment zone , boost the national health innovation campus of the University of Huddersfield ; £ 100 million of levelling - up cash for the indoor market ; the Penistone line upgrade ; Marsden Mills ; a £ 30 million teaching block at Greenhead College ; and much , much more ? I thank my hon . friend and congratulate he on list the considerable achievement that he and his local community have be able to achieve . it be a great track record and one to be proud of . it sit in stark contrast to what have become a distinctive feature of labour - run council : in Birmingham , bankruptcy ; in Liverpool , police investigation into corruption ; Sandwell save from complete failure by Government intervention ; and in Tower Hamlets , Labour ' s vote - rig legacy be still cause havoc for resident . the Scottish Government have build more affordable home than any other country in the United Kingdom : 126 , 000 over the past 17 year . meanwhile , there have be a staggering 76 % fall in affordable housing alone in London in this financial year . will the Leader of the House make a statement set out her response to a call from the housing charity Crisis , which say that the UK Government ' s three - year freeze on local housing allowance be one of the big driver of homelessness ? the hon . Lady ask , I will deliver . I will make a statement now : the Mayor of London ' s record on home building , crime , and support for small business and charity be a shamble , and he should be vote out of office . when we build thousand of new home to ensure that people be decently and affordably house , as we be do in my constituency , we also put thousand of extra motorist on to the exist road network . the a505 between Leighton Buzzard and Dunstable have see four fatality in six year , and 50 accident , and Bedford Road in Houghton Regis be not safe . what can we do to ensure that we recognise the impact on the exist road network when we build thousand of new home ? I thank my hon . friend again for his work to ensure that development in his constituency be match by investment in infrastructure and service , whether that be healthcare , which he have campaign on enormously , or transport , which he have raise again today . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Transport have hear what my hon . friend have say , and he can raise it with he directly on 21 March . I congratulate my hon . friend , because this be an important aspect of ensure that , as development progress , his community get the service it need . the great the scandal , the great obligation on we to act with speed and clarity to provide remedy . notwithstanding yesterday ' s welcome news on the Horizon scandal Bill , we have not act fast enough , and now we be not act with enough clarity , because the Department for Business and Trade be more than a fortnight late in provide the explanatory memorandum for its supplementary estimate . no other Department have miss the deadline ; only the Department for Business and Trade . we can not see where the budget might lie for remedy and redress for the GLO — group litigation order — litigant , whose heroic tenacity actually allow we to overturn the conviction that the Bill propose . will the Leader of the House join I in urge the Department to provide that explanatory memorandum quickly and , if not , may we have a debate in Government time to get to the bottom of what on earth be go on ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that matter . I will certainly ensure that the Department have hear what he have say and that the House be present with paper in good time to be able to scrutinise the legislation . he will know the complex issue that surround the Bill and the work that have go on to ensure that the Bill be bring before the House in the good form possible to make swift passage through the House . there be concurrent activity to ensure that what the Bill enable be ready to be implement once it leave this House and gain Royal Assent . he raise an important matter . I will ensure that the Department have hear what he have say . last Friday , on International Women ' s day , I have a fantastic time in my constituency celebrate the " let girl play " campaign ' s " big ever Football Session " . school include Castlefort JMI , Pelsall Village , Ryders Hayes , St John ' s , St Anne ' s , and Manor Primary in Streetly all come together . will my right hon . friend join I in thank Walsall FC Foundation , include Swifty the mascot , Streetly Academy and everyone who be involve in organise the day and , we hope , in encourage and inspire the next generation of Lionesses ? I congratulate my right hon . friend on all her work , and join she in thank and praise for Walsall FC Foundation , Swifty the mascot , and everyone involve . the proof of focus in this area be in the statistic : the BBC recently analyse the uptake in woman play the national game , and there be now twice as many register female football team in England than there be just seven year ago . that be a tremendous thing to celebrate . member will know that the share prosperity fund be initially a replacement for EU fund — and a poor imitation in the view of many . despite Northern Ireland have the high level of economic inactivity and the low proportional SPF spend , money allocate to that fund have be repurpose into last month ' s Stormont deal and effectively raid to fund vital service . will the Leader of the House allow for a debate in Government time to discuss that fund and how money can be properly return to level up and to support employability for carer , the long - term unemployed , vulnerable young people and people live with disability in Northern Ireland ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . the opportunity to speak directly to the Secretary of State at the Dispatch Box be not until 24 April , so I will ensure that he have hear her concern . labour demand that a large donation to the Conservatives be return because of a racist comment make five year ago , but do my right hon . friend recall that Mark Serwotka , the head of the public and Commercial Services Union , say six year ago that Israel " create " the antisemitism row in the Labour party ? the Board of Deputies say at the time that that be antisemitic , but Serwotka be subsequently elect president of the whole tuc . apply the same standard , should not labour return the ten of million that it have receive from trade union donation ? my right hon . and learn Friend have provide yet another example to add to the three that I give early in this session , so it be £ 15 million and rise . we wait to see what the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) do . can we have a debate about Ofcom ' s approach to GB News and its alleged breach — find breach , in fact — of the broadcasting code , as well as its ownership ? be it not time that we have a proper wide - range Ofcom inquiry into whether Sir Paul Marshall , who have endorse very right - wing and extreme view , be a fit and proper person to hold a broadcasting licence , and whether the editorial policy be in breach of the rule set down by this House ? the hon . Gentleman be an experienced parliamentarian and will know how to secure a debate . the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee be smile and wiggle his eyebrow at he along the Bench . the work that Ofcom do be incredibly important . it have raise a number of concern with that channel about particular broadcaster and presenter ; it have not raise matter of concern with regard to the channel itself . if the hon . Gentleman wish to explore those matter far , he know what he can do . in work with Durham Constabulary and Darlington Borough Council civic enforcement , I have be shock to learn of the widespread sale of illegal vape and illicit tobacco , sale to child , and the grooming and entry of child into act as agent for that organised crime , which be akin to county line . what work be the Government do across the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the Department of Health and Social Care , the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice to tackle that deeply troubling issue , and will my right hon . friend find time for a debate on it ? my hon . friend will know how he can secure a debate . thing that could be discuss on that occasion include the £ 30 million a year of new funding for enforcement agency — include trading standard , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and Border Force — to tackle the illicit market and under - age sale . there be a new joint illicit tobacco strategy and a new illicit tobacco taskforce , which will be back by £ 100 million of new funding over the next five year . it be a very important issue for the Government , and I welcome further scrutiny of it . with only four bank branch leave in my constituency , I think my day of moan about branch closure be over , but on Tuesday , Lloyds inform I that it be close the Bank of Scotland branch in Renfrew and Bridge of Weir . Renfrew be a grow town with a population of 25 , 000 that will not have a single branch , and the village of Bridge of Weir — where do anything without a car be difficult — will also not have a branch . can we have a debate on local banking ? for so many , that be now leave to the Post Office , albeit in simple term , and it be fair to say that the Post Office ' s reputation with the public be in the gutter . those be important service for any community , and the hon . Gentleman be right to raise concern about what be happen in his constituency . it be fortunate that the Secretary of State for Levelling up be on the Front Bench — he have save I the stamp that it would cost to raise this matter with he — because his Department have do a lot of work to ensure that even though banking service might not have brick - and - mortar location , service can be retain in local community , include community that be very isolated and rural . I will take a belt - and - brace approach : I will write to the Secretary of State and ask his official , who have put together guidance on good practice in this area , to contact the hon . Gentleman ' s office . when Mark Murphy be a presenter at BBC Radio Suffolk , it be fair to say that we have a bit of a mixed relationship — he be probably the most robust questioner I have ever encounter . however , last September , he take over as the chief executive officer of Cancer Support Suffolk , and have do an exceptional job with his team . I visit that charity last week , and it have make some change : people do not need to be refer by the hospital to go in and have a meeting , and it now support family member , not just those with cancer . one of the thing that Mark raise with I , though , be that he think there should be national screening for prostate cancer and a level playing field for all form of cancer , to make sure we catch it early , and that we should work with some hard - to - reach community to raise awareness . will the Leader of the House support I in that campaign , and recognise the work that Mark Murphy have do and how it could save life in Suffolk ? I add my congratulation and thank to those of my hon . friend for those individual who have do so much to improve service and the patient experience in his area . we have have some good news on cancer outcome today . that be very welcome , and it be because of those people — their attention to detail and their effort — that those achievement have be secure . as my hon . friend know , diagnostic be absolutely critical to ensure that people have good outcome . that be why we have invest so much in the 160 new diagnostic test centre in a whole raft of therapy area across the country . I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Health have hear about my hon . friend ' s particular interest in this area . we obviously have new opportunity to use datum that the Department of Health and Social Care be collect to ensure we improve patient outcome everywhere . last week , I visit Zeelandia UK . besides show I its range of product , I have a Zoom call with the manage director of that company ' s ukrainian factory , who set up " Bake for Ukraine " , a project that help bring fresh bread to local people by send decommission commercial bakery equipment from the UK , which be convert and give to small bakery in local village . Tesco already contribute to that scheme , but could the Leader of the House suggest how it could be promote to all colleague , to encourage more company to contribute and raise awareness of this wonderful project ? in addition to ask a question , the hon . Lady have provide her own answer by share with the House this very impressive scheme , which show the power of business as a force for good in the world . it will be in Hansard ; I hope that the medium will pick it up ; and I be sure that everyone in this Chamber will do their good to promote the scheme . in recent week , I have be work with Sky News on its investigation into the purchase and misuse of catapult — sadly , all too often by child and young people — to kill and maim wildlife and pet . all too often , video be then share on social medium through channel such as WhatsApp . can we have a statement from the Home Secretary on introduce criminal sanction for the irresponsible sale and use of catapult to kill and damage wildlife ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work he be continue to do on matter such as that , and also in other area of animal welfare . he will know that Home Office question be not until 15 April , so I will make the Home Secretary aware of what he have say . this be a disturbing and grow phenomenon . in addition to cause animal suffering , it be , as we now know , an indicator of what those perpetrator may go on to do and other crime they may commit . it be a serious matter , and I thank my hon . friend for raise it . can we have a debate in Government time on the urgent need for an employment Bill , particularly to protect those on very precarious app - base contract ? I have have several taxi driver and delivery driver off - board by Uber and just eat , but they do not seem to have any recourse to complaint , despite its affect their employment prospect and their income . the Government need to do an awful lot more to protect people in these circumstance . I will make sure that the Department for Work and Pensions have hear the hon . Lady ' s concern . we have have labour market statistic out today , and in addition to the good news on wage growth as people progress through work , since 2010 unemployment have halve , absolute poverty have go down and there be 800 more people in job for every single day that we have be in office . I bring good news from Kettering , because Kettering have make it into the top 10 of the most dog - love place in the UK . a study by pet insurer Waggel have find that , in Kettering , for every 1 , 000 people there be 252 of our furry friend . with so many local green space and countryside area where resident can take their dog for a walk , such as the hugely popular Wicksteed park , it be clear that Kettering be a great place to own and love a dog . may we have a statement from my right hon . friend the Leader of the House on celebrate Kettering as one of the most dog - friendly place in the whole country ? I thank my hon . friend for bring we the good news , which we be all hope for and anticipate , that there be more waggy tail per square mile in Kettering than anywhere else in the UK . I would encourage local authority and community to look to the example that have be set by Kettering , and I congratulate everyone who have make it such a dog - friendly place . parent from the Northwich part of my constituency be rightly lobby I about specialist educational provision in the Cheshire West and Chester council area . could we have a debate in Government time about the sufficiency of resource give to council and power to deal with education and health partner in this field of special educational need ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very important matter . he will know that this be not just a priority for the Secretary of State for Education , but something very personal to she that she have a particular personal interest in and focus on . we have increase the funding available for special educational need and we have also invest in specialist school , but I will make sure that the Secretary of State be aware of his concern as the next Education question be not until the end of April . would my right hon . friend make time for an additional debate on farming ? do she agree with I that the Prime Minister ' s recent announcement of £ 220 million to deploy new technology to boost productivity in the farming sector in North Shropshire and the rest of England compare very favourably with Welsh Labour ' s policy , which would force farmer in Clwyd South and the rest of Wales to reduce their productive land by 20 % ? that will result in a 122 , 200 reduction in Welsh livestock number , 5 , 500 lost job and a £ 199 million loss to Wales ' s economy , all of which have lead to mass protest by the farming community throughout Wales . I commend my hon . friend and the farmer he represent for all the work they be do to fight against those plan . he be right that they will cost job , and they be an appalling use of good agricultural land . that be why just 3 % of the farming community trust the Welsh Government , and 87 % of farmer believe that that misguided farming policy would not benefit their work or business or , very importantly , deliver a positive outcome for the environment . I think Labour in Wales need to start listen to farmer . despite consistently deliver some of the high economic growth in the country , North West Leicestershire remain without access to the rail network , leave my constituent completely reliant on their own vehicle , taxi or local bus service . will the Leader of the House join I in commend the 1 , 000 North West Leicestershire resident who sign a petition call for the reinstatement of the original route for the Nos . 16 , 29 and 29a bus service , administer by Arriva Midlands East ? these bus service be essential for my constituent , so can we have a statement from a Minister on why bus service in the area continue to be curtail , when North West Leicestershire continue to make such a massive contribution to the UK economy ? I thank all the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent and the business in his constituency for what they be do to grow our economy and strengthen their community . the next question to the Transport Secretary will be on 21 March , and I encourage the hon . gentleman to raise this directly with the Secretary of State . I recently visit our local sea cadet in Scunthorpe to see their new and improved facility , which have be back by Government funding . a serve or former cadet can always be recognise by their manner , common sense and can - do approach , and I be incredibly proud to meet three former Scunthorpe cadet who have go on to serve our country as Royal Marines Commandos . will my right hon . friend join I in commend our fantastic cadet leader and our local young cadet , who we be incredibly proud of , and would she support a debate on how we can continue to support cadet in make their genuine , positive contribution to our society ? as my hon . friend be ask her question , there be audible noise of support from around the Chamber . I think we all appreciate the work that the Sea Cadet organisation do . as well as be a fantastic escalator of talent and give young people opportunity and confidence , it do a huge amount for local community . I be sure that we would all agree with my hon . friend ' s sentiment . we have do a huge amount to expand access to not just sea cadet scheme but other cadet scheme , by support school in set up their own branch , but there be always more to do , and her question have remind we of the benefit of do it . all of we across the House appreciate the vital role play by local individual and volunteer group in constituency . one such group in my constituency be the Friends together Club , base in Coatbridge , which have be run for seven year and make a real difference to the life of 150 local people with additional support need . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome the thrilling news that the follow individual be to be recognise by the Sovereign Military Hospitaller Order of Saint John of Jerusalem , of Rhodes and of Malta ? Liam Hackett will receive the cross of merit and Ena Hamill the silver medal , while Elaine McDermott , Patrick Allan , Yvonne Cawley and Elizabeth Locke will receive a bronze medal . this be a truly outstanding recognition , and richly deserve . may we have a debate in Government time about the importance of community volunteer across the United Kingdom , and the valuable work that they do for we ? it be a shame that applause be not allow in the House and would be out of order , because I think we would all want to give those individual a round of applause . I would say from all of we : congratulation to all in the Friends together Club , and thank you for your service . I hope the hon . Gentleman will get a copy of today ' s Hansard for everybody that he name . we appreciate all of they . I be sure my right hon . friend will join I in congratulate Conservative - run Harrow Council on this year exceed the usual number of apprentice it recruit . More than 50 young people have be give the opportunity to work across different department , include eight in our school . that obviously give they the opportunity to build a career in public service . will my right hon . friend find Government time for a debate on apprentice in public service , so that we can congratulate the public service that be recruit apprentice and shame those that do not ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate his local authority on its achievement . we should all be proud of the fact that over the past few year , we have create 5 . 7 million such opportunity for young people , but also people at other stage in their life . it be a tremendous way in which people can progress , move career and gain new qualification without get into debt . I send my congratulation to he and to Harrow Council . may I begin by join the tribute of Mr Speaker and those on the front Benches to Tommy McAvoy ? he represent my constituency of Rutherglen for 23 year , and be a committed trade unionist in the community before that . he be very much Rutherglen ' s man . during the by - election , I do not know how many people say to I , " you don ' t need to worry ; I know Tommy well , all those year ago . " fourteen year after he stop be the MP , he be still remember by so many constituent . may I ask the Leader of the House about the subsidy scheme that provide support enable school to come to this place ? it be always wonderful to have school visit we , and as a former teacher of politic , I think that bring pupil to this place to see politic in action be incredibly important . the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) have already raise the issue of the subsidy . although it have be increase for April , the support be still not enough to enable many school to come to this place . have there be any analysis of how many school have be prevent from visit because of that ? will there be a review of the category ? all of Scotland ' s school be in category c , and it be particularly difficult to bring pupil here use the current subsidy . as I say , this matter have be look at by the Finance Committee . it have go into a lot of detail on who come here , the barrier to people visit , and what other option they have to access education resource that they might want . clearly , come to this amazing UNESCO heritage site be important to many people . I will make sure that the Chair of the Finance Committee , the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) , have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . a number of House of Commons Commissioners be in the Chamber today , and they will have hear what he say . the policy have recently be change to be more favourable , but all party concern keep it under review . Rugby be provide new housing at scale , yet the number of pharmacy in our town be fall . follow closure in recent month , resident have tell I about have to queue for more than an hour to get a prescription . I be aware of offer to set up new pharmacy , but they have be turn down by our health and wellbeing board , which unbelievably say that there be sufficient provision in our area . can we have a debate about how this process be manage ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in my hon . friend ' s constituency , which do indeed sound serious . local commissioner have an obligation to ensure that such service be available . follow initiative of our , such as Pharmacy First , that obligation be doubly important , because many of these place now have the authority to prescribe . I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care hear his concern . I will ask the regional manager of NHS England to look at what be go on in his community . that level of service be not acceptable for his constituent . a company call Claim my Tax notify my constituent Margaret and Brian Broadley that they be due a £ 1 , 200 marriage tax allowance refund from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . have see the paperwork , my constituent believe that the company obtain their signature fraudulently , and they notify HMRC accordingly . HMRC insist that my constituent give permission , and it will continue to work with the company , rather than directly with they . the Government rightly talk about clamp down on the action of such claim company . why be HMRC allow to behave like this ? I hope that we can swiftly resolve this situation for the hon . Gentleman . if he give I the detail of the case after this session , I will make sure that he speak immediately to someone from HMRC who can resolve this . I be sure that he have try to get it resolve himself , and I be here to assist he in do so . hopefully we will be able to sort this out for his constituent . one of the drive reason why I want to come to the House be what I see in the NHS . all too often , those who want to create change be tell , " you ' re too junior , " or " this be the way it have always be do . " that be why I be delighted to see the productivity plan , which £ 3 . 4 billion be be put towards . when that plan be bring forward , may we have a debate in Government time on ensure simple thing , such as cross - boundary result be share , have computer that load quickly , and get rid of fax and letter scan ? all that take 10 % to 15 % of a clinician ' s time — time that could be well spend with patient . that be a good suggestion for a debate . I hope that all member of the House welcome the £ 6 billion increase in funding for the NHS announce in the Budget . roughly half of that be go to the new improvement programme , which we know will not only assist member of staff and clinician work in the NHS , but improve patient outcome . to give just one example , when a nurse ask a doctor to attend to a patient , in a large percentage of case that be not do . however , with track by a handheld device , we can ensure that the visit happen — or , for example , that a cannula be change , which improve patient outcome . that be vital . we need to do more of that in our NHS , so that the patient that it serve get the treatment and care that they deserve . h100 in Methil be make good progress towards deliver the big green hydrogen domestic heating network that the world have ever see . the Government promise that by March 2023 , they would have announce the successful applicant , somewhere in the UK , in an even more ambitious project to provide green hydrogen heating to potentially ten of thousand of home , but a year later , we have hear nothing . can we have a statement to explain why the Government be drag their foot , and jeopardise the status of Levenmouth and Scotland as world leader on this vital green hydrogen heating technology ? the UK be a world leader in this area . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero hear what the hon . Gentleman say , give that the next question to the Department be not until 16 April , but we have a good track record across the UK in this area , and we will want that to continue . I feel that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have be rob of its time in this place . last year , the Leader of the House be kind enough to ensure that we have the full hour for oral question on our countryside , our fisherman , our farmer and the environment , but we have slide back to 40 minute . may I please ask that we get the full hour again to discuss those important topic ? my hon . friend be diligent in ensure that he have enough time and opportunity to scrutinise that Department . I understand why that be a priority for he and the constituency that he represent . he know that decide how we divvy up time be a complicated Rubik ' s cube problem . I be sympathetic to the case he make last time , and I will raise the matter with business manager . dudley hospital worker contract by Mitie have be strike because they do not receive a lump - sum covid payment that be give to some staff directly employ by the NHS for do the same job . Mitie want the taxpayer to cover those payment , despite be directly responsible for its employee . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Mitie worker for their work during the pandemic , and encourage the Department of Health and Social Care to work with I to resolve this issue ? I join my hon . friend in thank those people for all the work that they do during the pandemic . it be important that we value all our health and social care staff , no matter how they be employ and in which sector they sit . the Department of Health and Social Care have decide to provide additional funding on this occasion to help deliver one - off payment to eligible organisation and staff employ by non - NHS business . those organisation can apply for funding . we feel that we ought to be do our bit . I know that there be discussion ongoing about that , but I will see to it that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be aware of the situation , see the outstanding issue , and ensure that those people be take care of , and that there be parity . the Leader of the House might have see in the news this week that read football club intend to sell its state - of - the - art Bearwood training ground , in what I hope will not be a precursor to administration . football fan across Berkshire and beyond be in despair at the state of some of the club in our beautiful game . although the football governance Bill can not come soon enough , will my right hon . friend please use all the lever at her disposal to ensure that it have sufficient tooth and power to prevent owner who be not fit and proper from take control of club , and to ensure that those who slip through the net be properly hold to account ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to make that point . he be preach to the choir , as I be a portsmouth supporter . we must ensure that the legislation be effective . the amount of input that it have have from so many fan of the game across the country be unprecedented . the game would be nothing without its fan , and club be treasure community asset . we must take care of everyone in the football pyramid . when the Bill come to the House , we will ensure that it do exactly that . Extremism Definition and Community Engagement with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the next step that we be take in the Government ' s strategy to counter extremism and to build great national resilience and social cohesion . the United Kingdom be a success story : a multi - national , multi - ethnic and multi - faith democracy , strong because of our diversity . however , our democracy and value of inclusivity and tolerance be under challenge from extremist group that be radicalise our young people and drive great polarisation within and between community to further their own end . in order to protect our democratic value and enhance social cohesion , it be important both to reinforce what we all have in common and to be clear and precise in identify the danger pose by extremism . as our new definition make clear , extremism can lead to the radicalisation of individual , deny people their full right and opportunity , suppress freedom of expression , incite hatred , weaken social cohesion and , ultimately , lead to act of terrorism . Most extremist material and activity be not illegal and do not meet the terrorism or the national security threshold . for example , islamist and neo - nazi group in Britain be operate lawfully , but they advocate and work towards the replacement of democracy with an islamist or nazi society . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have be work with local authority , civil society and faith group , especially in those area where social cohesion be most under strain , to de - escalate tension and to explore the most constructive support that we can offer . from our engagement we hear widespread unease about the safety and security of community organisation , political candidate and elect official . councillor have be threaten with violence ; council meeting have be disrupt ; council officer and elect member talk of walk a tightrope , terrify of inadvertently say the wrong thing or offend one side or the other . many choose to remain silent and to take no action , such be the chilling element of these extremist group on our democracy . it be gravely concern that the conflict in the middle east be drive further polarisation . we have see a terrible increase in antisemitic and anti - muslim hate crime , as well as a very significant increase in radicalisation . troublingly , there be also evidence that some Islamists and extreme right - wing group and other who seek to tear our society apart be work together to maximise the reach of their message and cause . that be why the work of civil society organisation such as the Community Security Trust and tell MAMA , as well as Muslims against Anti - Semitism , the educational charity Solutions not side and the Forum for Discussion of Israel and Palestine be so important . we have provide additional funding for the CST and tell MAMA to counter antisemitism and anti - muslim hatred , and we will do more . we will shortly establish a new fund to provide additional , direct and tangible support for grassroots organisation , build bridge and fight division . I commend those who be do so much to counter prejudice . work in civil society , it be critical that we do not unwittingly , or through ignorance , fund or otherwise support organisation or individual who be themselves extremist . in the past , it have unfortunately be the case that extremist group and actor have seek to present themselves as moderate voice representative of majority or mainstream opinion . the Government have have a definition of extremism since 2011 . it have help inform our Prevent counter - terrorism work and be design to assist the Government in engagement . but in a considerable number of case organisation and individual with view that be clearly extreme have nevertheless benefit from state engagement , endorsement and support , and furthermore have exploit that association to further their extremist agenda . among the most significant be Shakeel Begg , who be label an islamist extremist by a judge . Mr Begg , an NHS chaplain and regular speaker at state school , run Lewisham Islamic Centre and be on both the Metropolitan police ' s independent advisory group in Lewisham and Lewisham ' s stand advisory committee on religious education . in 2016 , Mr Begg sue the BBC when it describe he , accurately , as an extremist . the judge in the case , Mr Justice Haddon - Cave , conduct his own scrupulous research , identify many occasion when Mr Begg have advocate extreme position , include promote and encourage religious violence , and by tell a muslim audience that violence in support of Islam would constitute a man ' s great deed . Mr Justice Haddon - Cave not only dismiss Mr Begg ' s claim but draw specific attention to the danger of extremist exploit sponsorship from state institution . he outline the need for an update and more precise definition of extremism to guide engagement by Government and other . we have since see how figure of potential extremism concern have be able to work with the Crown Prosecution Service and the Metropolitan police , co - opt charity and benefit from public funding . we know from William Shawcross ' s excellent independent review of Prevent , that such engagement have inadvertently provide a platform , funding or legitimacy for group or individual who oppose our share value . this apparent legitimise of their view can lead extremist of all ideology to be embolden and to exert great influence . that be why today my Department be publish an update , more precise and rigorous definition of extremism , alongside a set of cross - Government engagement principle for use when engage with external group . there be also detailed guidance on what the definition do and do not capture . we be also set up a new counter - extremism centre of excellence in my Department , as a world - lead authority on good practice , datum and research . our plan , draw up in close collaboration with the Home Office , will enable the Government to express more clearly than ever before which group fall within the extremism definition , point to the evidence , and explain the funding and engagement consequence . they will also support national effort to counter the work of extremist who promote their ideology both online and offline . the new definition will strengthen vital frontline counter - radicalisation work . the new centre of excellence will also help we to understand the role play by state actor and state - link organisation in extremist activity that be take place in our country . the wide knowledge of what constitute extremist behaviour and who be behind it , will , I hope , help all of we to identify potential threat , and to take step to challenge and marginalise they . critically , the right that we enjoy in the United Kingdom extend to everyone . freedom of expression , freedom of religion and belief , the rule of law , democracy and equal right — these be the cornerstone of our civilised society that Government and Parliament , on both side of the House , strive always to uphold . to be clear , our definition will not affect gender - critical campaigner , those with conservative religious belief , tran activist , environmental protest group , or those exercise their proper right to free speech . in draw up the new definition , the Government have take every possible precaution to strike a balance between protect fundamental right and safeguard citizen . our definition draw on the work of Dame Sara Khan , the Government ' s independent reviewer of social cohesion , and Sir Mark Rowley , the Metropolitan Police Commissioner , before his appointment to that post . the propose definition will hold that extremism be the promotion or advancement of an ideology base on violence , hatred or intolerance that aim to : negate or destroy the fundamental right and freedom of other ; undermine , overturn or replace the UK ' s system of liberal parliamentary democracy and democratic right ; or intentionally create a permissive environment for other to achieve those result . while the Government in no way intend to restrict freedom of expression , religion or belief , we can not be in a position where , unwittingly or not , we sponsor , subsidise or support in any way organisation and individual oppose to the freedom that we hold dear . across the House , I be sure that we agree that organisation such as the British National Socialist Movement and Patriotic Alternative , who promote neo - nazi ideology , argue for force repatriation , a white ethno - state and the targeting of minority group for intimidation , be precisely the type of group about which we should be concern and whose activity we will assess against the new definition . the activity of the extreme right wing be a grow worry . the targeting of both muslim and jewish community and individual by these group be a profound concern require concerted action . as with our definition of extremism , it be important that we be precise in our use of language when discuss Islamism . islamism should never be confuse with Islam . Islam be a great faith , a religion of peace that provide spiritual nourishment for million , inspire countless act of charity , and celebrate the virtue of generosity , compassion and kindness . islamism be a totalitarian ideology that seek to divide , call for the establishment of an islamic state govern by sharia law , and seek the overthrow of liberal democratic principle . it have its root in the thinking of the founder of the Muslim Brotherhood , Hassan al - Banna , the founder of Jamaat - e - Islami , Abul A ' la al - Maududi , and the Muslim Brotherhood ideologue Sayyid Qutb . the palestinian branch of the Muslim Brotherhood be , of course , Hamas . organisation such as the Muslim Association of Britain , which be the british affiliate of the Muslim Brotherhood , and other group such as CAGE and Mend , give rise to concern because of their islamist orientation and view . we will be hold those and other organisation to account to assess whether they meet our definition of extremism , and will take action as appropriate . there be , of course , further step that we will take in the come day and week to marginalise extremist group , and to support and strengthen the community where extremist be most active and spread division . they will include respond to Dame Sara Khan ' s forthcoming report on social cohesion and democratic resilience , and Lord Walney ' s independent review of how to counter political violence and disruption . in this debate , we must never forget about the experience of victim of extremism who be target by extremist group and the severe and distressing impact that that have on their life , and I be pleased that Dame Sara Khan will be address that in her forthcoming report . as the Prime Minister have say , the time have come for we all to stand together to combat the force of division and beat this poison . the liberty that we hold dear , and indeed the democratic principle that we be all send here to uphold , require we to counter and challenge the extremist who seek to intimidate , to coerce and to divide . we must be clear - eyed about the threat that we face , precise about where that threat come from , and rigorous in defend our democracy . that mean uphold freedom of expression , religion and belief when it be threaten , face down harassment and hate , support the community face the great challenge from extremist activity , and ensure that the House and the country be safe , free and united . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I start by thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement , and for his briefing yesterday . hateful extremism threaten the safety of our community and the unity of our country . everyone , across the House , can agree that it be a serious problem which demand a serious response , so let I say from the outset that when it come to our national security , when it come to the threat of radicalisation and when it come to the toxic scourge of Islamophobia , neo - Nazism , antisemitism or any other corrosive hatred , the whole House can and should work together . the way the Government do this work matter , and the language that we all use be important . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s opening comment that it be our diversity , and our value , that make our country strong . the Secretary of State be right to raise concern about the danger face our elect representative . we must be free to represent the view of our constituent . we all have a responsibility to work to extinguish the flame of division , and never to fan they . while it may be part of the nature of our politic for passion sometimes to take centre stage , and while we may challenge and probe these plan today , if the Secretary of State want to engage go forward , he have my word that we can do so in good faith . I say challenge because I believe that the Secretary of State have make a mistake in the way in which this policy have be trail in the last week . I be glad he have now come to the House to give clarification , but it be not right that we have spend the last few day pore over a possible new definition in the paper ; it be not right that the Department have leak the name of group that may or may not be cover by this definition when , as he rightly say , this work should be base on due diligence ; and it be not right that each stage of the recruitment of a new Islamophobia adviser have be mire in controversy . can the Secretary of State confirm that he have now appoint an adviser ? on today ' s announcement , we will scrutinise this new definition , and it will be crucial to see how it be apply in practice , but will the Secretary of State set out how the new centre of excellence will operate and how it will be resource ? how will this new definition work in practice ? how exactly will it restrict the Government ' s engagement ? will these restriction relate only to Government engagement , or will they later be extend to other public body such as the police and university ? give this new definition , the public will rightly be alarm by the idea that Ministers could have already meet extremist group . can the Secretary of State shed some light on that ? renew vigilance and diligence be welcome , particularly in the current climate , but if his own Department now need to cut tie with extremist group , that beg the question of why it be work with they in the first place . he say in his statement that the new definition " will not affect gender - critical campaigner , those with conservative religious belief , tran activist , environmental protest group , or those exercise their proper right to free speech . " can he explain which group it will affect , and where the Government have choose to draw the line ? this be not the first time that the Government have identify this risk or promise to act . as the Secretary of State mention , back at the beginning of 2011 the Conservative Home Secretary tell the House : " if organisation do not support the value of democracy , human right , equality before the law , participation in society … we will not work with they and we will not fund they . " — [ Official Report , 7 June 2011 ; Vol . 529 , c . 53 . ] that prompt another question : why have it take the Government 13 year to address this ? the Secretary of State say that organisation that be clearly extreme have benefit from Government engagement , endorsement and support , and even suggest that those group have exploit Government engagement . can he understand how deeply concern that be to hear ? he must explain exactly how it have be allow to happen . we know there have be a huge surge in online extremism . can the Secretary of State give assurance on how that will be deal with ? what action be he take to work across Government to assess and confront online hate ? we know that extremism do not exist in a vacuum , and we need political leadership on this , but a quality of good leadership be to empower other . the Secretary of State say that the Department have be work with faith group , civil society and local council , and I agree that they all have a crucial role to play in tackle extremism , but what form have that consultation take , and will he publish its finding ? on the wide work that be now need , will the Secretary of State set out whether it will be underpin by a new cross - Government counter - extremism strategy , give that the last one be now nine year out of date ? will it include action to rebuild the resilience and cohesion of our community ? he mention new funding ; how much will it be , how will it be allocate , and how will it interact with other funding stream , include those relate to multi - faith dialogue ? I also want to raise a point about hate crime , and how important it be to tackle extremism . we have see an appalling surge in antisemitism and Islamophobia in recent month , and the previous strategy be now four year out of date . when will the Secretary of State have an update hate crime action plan ? have Ministers abandon plan to introduce a new hate crime strategy ? why be the anti - muslim hatred working group and the antisemitism working group no long meet ? we need much strong action to tackle the corrosive form of hatred that devastate life and corrode community , but today ' s statement do not go far enough . regardless of how workable and effective the new definition and the centre for excellence may be , this announcement will not be enough . let I end by echo the word of the Archbishops of Canterbury and York , who have warn that , against the backdrop of grow division , it be for political leader to provide " a conciliatory tone " and to " pursue policy that bring we together , not risk drive we apart . " I look forward to work with the Secretary of State on this . I be very grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for the constructive , detailed and consensual approach that she be take to what be inevitably challenging and difficult issue . I enjoy the opportunity to talk to she and other labour colleague yesterday , and I look forward to work together in the future . I know it be the role of the Opposition to challenge , and I wholeheartedly welcome the constructive way in which that challenge have be issue today . I agree with the shadow Secretary of State that the danger to elect representative be grow , and my right hon . friend the Security Minister have invest time , care and money to counter it . passion , vigour and determination be all part of the meat of our politic , and nothing that we have say today should take away from our desire to see free speech exercise as energetically as possible . the shadow Secretary of State mention the leaking of some information relate to our work on this issue . I deprecate that leaking , which be a fundamental challenge to the effective operation of government , and a leak inquiry have be commission in order to see how some of the information about today ' s statement be share . as a result of my have give the statement , however , there be an opportunity for all of we to scrutinise the detail . the shadow Secretary of State ask how the centre of excellence will be staff and fund . impartial civil servant with training in this area will be supplement in their work by study by academic and academic body , and we will work with the exist expertise in the homeland security analysis and intelligence unit within the Home Office in order to ensure that all our work be rigorous . we will make sure that if a decision be make to list an organisation as extremist , we will show our working and the evidence that lead we to that conclusion , and the judgment that we have make will be there for everyone to see . the shadow Secretary of State ask why the Government or arm of the state have unwittingly engage with extremist organisation in the past . although the previous definition of extremism be well intentione and draw up with care , it be perhaps insufficiently precise and insufficiently police , so we think it be appropriate to update it . this follow the Shakeel Begg case , William Shawcross ' s independent review of Prevent , and other example that be bring to the Government ' s attention . have be tell by independent figure , the court and William Shawcross that we need to look again at our approach , the real sin would have be not to do so and to have stick to a course that have lead to mistake in the past . the shadow Secretary of State ask about the wide work on resilience . we will publish a more detailed action plan , which will include funding commitment to support organisation on the ground that build up a great degree of community resilience , and I look forward to work with she and other in local government to achieve that valuable end . I call the Father of the House . I be glad to follow both Front Benchers , who have give a lead to the House . it be interesting to consider whether it would have be right 90 year ago to identify as a threat Oswald Mosley ' s approach , as well as the people who march through the street to intimidate other . more recently , when Kathleen Stock be at the University of Sussex , the student ' union and many other call she a dangerous extremist for write a rather good book and have view that be now mainstream . fill the gap between what be not necessarily criminal but should be identify as wrong be important , and I hope the whole House can give support to today ' s proposal . I be very grateful to the Father of the House . there should , rightly , be a high bar on the use of criminal sanction . we should always seek to encourage free speech , but he be quite right to draw attention to the freedom - restrict harassment that some people have engage in . I completely endorse the point he make about Kathleen Stock , who be a distinguished academic . I call the SNP spokesperson . I wish Ramadan Mubarak to everybody who be mark this significant month in the islamic calendar . Friday be International Day to Combat Islamophobia , but Muslims be afraid to speak out , lest they be target for their belief or , indeed , label as extremist . the Government ' s independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , Jonathan Hall , have say that their proposal " could undermine the UK ' s reputation because it would not be see as democratic . " the Archbishops of Canterbury and York have say in a joint statement that the new definition " risk disproportionately target muslim community , who be already experience rise level of hate and abuse " , and " may vilify the wrong people " . Zara Mohammed of the Muslim Council of Britain be concern that the Government ' s proposal be undemocratic , divisive and potentially illegal . the organisation be also concerned about the lack of engagement with some of the group that the Secretary of State have talk about today . be any of the muslim group that he specifically mention contact , so that they know that they would be mention in today ' s statement ? there have be a desperately worrying increase in Islamophobia and antisemitism since 7 October , and it should concern we all that it be happen . we stand against extremism and the targeting of group in our society , but extremism be on the rise , drive in no small part by the culture war stoke by the Conservatives , their hanger - on and those who would call peace demonstration hate marche . this week we have hear about the racism and misogyny express by someone who have fund the party of Government . do the Secretary of State think that racism and misogyny meet his definition of extremism ? do he believe that Frank Hester ' s statement about the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , in which he say that she make he " want to hate all black woman " and that she " should be shoot " , would meet his definition of extremism ? if he do , will his party return the £ 10 million , or will he donate it to a charity of her choosing ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for make those point , and she be quite right to say that we need to be precise . as I stress in my statement and now have the opportunity to stress again , we should not conflate the specific challenge from certain islamist group with the broad muslim community . we need to be precise in order to draw that distinction , so that we be able to support organisation on the ground that seek to bring people together and to counter anti - muslim hate and antisemitism . I thank she and her colleague in the Scottish Government for the engagement that we undertake early this week through the Interministerial Standing Committee in order to share good practice about how to work with group on the ground that be engage in this vital counter - extremism work across the United Kingdom . the hon . Lady refer to the comment make by a gentleman who be not a Member of this House , which be clearly racist and regrettable . speak as someone who be target by an extremist who be attempt to kill I , and who go on to murder a colleague and friend in this House , I take that sort of language incredibly seriously . I call the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee . surely the essential point here be that the Government be propose not to ban any organisation , however extreme , from operate legally and within the law , but to identify organisation that should be bar from receive funding or other support from the Government . they have not share their proposal with the Intelligence and Security Committee , so any point that I make now be purely personal to I , but do the Secretary of State agree that in any democratic society people have a right to decide with which body they will or will not associate ? that be why it be right that , since July 2021 , Labour have ban no few than seven extreme - leave organisation as incompatible with party membership , in accordance with value define , quite properly , by its own national executive committee . I thank my right hon . friend , who have a distinguished record in this area . he be absolutely right . there be , appropriately , a very high threshold for the proscription of organisation , which Hizb ut - Tahrir recently meet . we be not seek to ban or restrict the operation of organisation in a free society ; we be simply make it clear that it would be wrong for the Government to use taxpayer ' money or public endorsement in engagement with such organisation . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the Secretary of State say in his statement : " our definition draw on the work of Dame Sara Khan , the Government ' s independent reviewer of social cohesion , and Sir Mark Rowley , the Metropolitan Police Commissioner , before his appointment to that post . " . in our report on the policing of protest , the Home Affairs Committee say : " we find it surprising that the Government have not yet respond to the report it commission from the Commission for counter Extremism regard hateful extremism , particularly the report ' operate with impunity ' by Dame Sara Khan and Sir Mark Rowley . Sir John Saunders in his report in 2023 rightly say that the Home Office should respond as a matter of urgency . " with this policy move from the Home Office to the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , have the Secretary of State have any conversation with the Home Office about whether there will be a full response to Dame Sara Khan ' s report ? how will this new definition affect the policing of protest ? the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee make some very important point . I have the opportunity to meet Dame Sara and Sir Mark to discuss our work on this new definition and , of course , I have work very closely with the Home Secretary and , particularly , the Security Minister on frame the definition . as the right hon . Lady will be aware , work in this space be share between my Department and the Home Office , which be responsible for security and for support the police . we be responsible for fund community organisation and encourage a great degree of social cohesion and resilience . there will be further response to some of the recommendation in that report , and indeed in Lord Walney ' s report and Dame Sara ' s additional report , which be forthcoming . I hope that , alongside the Home Secretary , I will have the opportunity to share further detail in the week ahead . I thank Dame Sara Khan , Sir Mark Rowley and Sir William Shawcross for all the work they have each do in this important area , include during my time as Home Secretary . I also thank the Secretary of State . although the proposal be non - statutory and will act as a guide for civil servant and Ministers , can the Secretary of State explain what evidential threshold will be apply by the new centre of excellence when compile the list of organisation and guidance ? how will this guidance be apply against the exist legal definition of racism , incitement and intimidation that guide our security service and our police in uphold the rule of law ? during her time in the Home Office , my right hon . friend initiate and take forward fantastic work to deal with extremism and intolerance . she be right that the definition do not impinge or alter the legal threshold for prosecution where people incite violence . indeed , there be argument for look again at our law to make sure that they be fit for purpose , but today ' s definition be not about change the criminal law ; it be about set a threshold . that threshold will be evidence when we come forward with the list of organisation that we believe meet this bar , with evidence that everyone can see make a compelling case that the ideology that spur those organisation be extremist in nature . the Secretary of State , in my view very unwisely , recently close down the Inter Faith Network , which facilitate the kind of dialogue he praise in his statement . he close it down on the ground that one of its 22 trustee be connect with the Muslim Council of Britain . if an organisation unjustly find itself on his propose list , will it have the opportunity to appeal against its inclusion ? we have not close down the Inter Faith Network . we cease our funding , and the Inter Faith Network draw its funding from a variety of source . we will apply appropriate due diligence and publish evidence . if anyone believe our judgment be wrong , as in any case where it be believe that the Government have act unreasonably , the option of judicial review be always available . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . word matter , and I note in particular the aim to " intentionally create a permissive environment " to deal with the harm that he rightly identify and that we all oppose . however , there be danger in that wording . will he issue guidance as to what it precisely mean ? the word " intentionally " be clearly important . do he accept that , with the Government generally not engage with the organisation that he rightly identify , we should not inhibit the work of the security service and agency , which have to engage with element of these organisation in order to combat extremism at an individual level ? my right hon . and learn Friend make a very important point , because obviously our intelligence and security agency , our law enforcement actor and sometimes those work abroad to keep we safe will have to deal with and engage unsavoury individual . the definition do not cover that activity . let we be clear and call this what it be . it be not a serious and genuine attempt to address a very important issue . it be a further draconian attempt to continue the Tory agenda of culture war . it be disappointing that countless civil liberty group , and three former Home Secretaries , have warn the Secretary of State against politicise such an important issue , but it seem it have fall on deaf ear . if the Secretary of State be serious about address these issue , I ask he to condemn the extremist , vile and dangerous language use by some of his own Back Benchers and some of the Tory donor who be bankroll his party . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , but I hope he will appreciate that both I and the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) be determine not to politicise this matter but to make sure we can operate consensually . of course there will be debate , challenge and difference of opinion and emphasis in what we seek to do , but it be a shared endeavour . indeed , we have be work with independent figure such as Lord Walney to achieve consensus . condemn those on your own side . I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman feel it necessary to make a party political point about my colleague . I extend to he the same courtesy that I extend to every Member of this House by respect his mandate and his voice , and not indulge in that sort of unfortunate personalisation . my right hon . friend have , for a very long time , be consistent and clear - eyed about the threat that we face , for which I applaud he . he have face personal threat and respond with bravery and resilience , which we all admire . first , I fear that the definition , though well intentione , land in no man ' s land . it do not go far enough to tackle the real extremist , and it do not do enough to protect the non - extremist who be simply express contrarian view and who might find that this definition be use against they , perhaps not now but possibly in the future . what reassurance can my right hon . friend give to I and other who be concerned about that ? secondly , do my right hon . friend agree that this be not the totality of our anti - extremism strategy , important though it be ? we now have to take forward other area , particularly on William Shawcross ' s superb recommendation with respect to the Prevent programme , on revoke the visa of visitor who do not share our value — that appear to have stall — and on ensure that the police vigorously and fairly implement our exist law so that everyone can have confidence that there be not , and will never be , two - tier policing in our country . when my right hon . friend hold my current post , he take forward immensely valuable work to counter anti - muslim hatred and antisemitism , and to support organisation fight both . he ask whether this definition be enough on its own , and he be right that it be not , but it be a necessary step in respond to Sir William Shawcross ' s independent review of Prevent , which make it clear that the operation of Prevent be insufficiently rigorous because of the definition — that be no criticism of the professional involve . the rigour of the definition need to be update , which be what we be do . my right hon . friend express concern that this definition might be misuse . the previous definition be loose , baggy and capable of many more interpretation than this much tight definition , which be therefore much less likely to be misuse . of course the proof will be in how we set about use it and in the evidence we provide to back up any judgment we make . this new definition will require careful scrutiny of its compliance with human right such as the right to freedom of expression , religion and belief . in my role as Chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , I be delighted that we will be take forward that scrutiny next week . on a personal level , may I ask the Secretary of State to agree that member of this House have a duty to be careful in their use of language and not to brand group " extreme " or " hateful " simply because they disagree with they ? I want to give an example of that , because it be an important and topical one . my friend at LGB Alliance , a well - respect LGB right charity , have be describe by some member of this House as a " hate group " simply because they raise hitherto unfashionable but now vindicate concern about the prescription of puberty blocker . will the Secretary of State join I in remind Members of this House of their responsibility not to use their position to stifle legitimate debate that make an important contribution to our democracy ? I be grateful to the hon . and learn Lady for her point . again , I stress that this be about Government engagement . although she or I might agree or disagree with an individual or group , we respect their right to free speech and free association . the point she make about the LGB Alliance be well make . it be right that there should be debate on gender and sex question , and I commend the Government for the step they have take to ban puberty blocker . therefore , in this debate , it be right to have a degree of respect and concern for the different and heartfelt position hold by everyone . her consistent championing of a particular position , though sometimes unpopular with other , be commendable and brave , and she represent the very good of her party . I share , along with many other member , some alarm at the emergence of this new definition , and I have two question for the Secretary of State . the first be further to the point make by the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) : be there really to be no appeal process in this branding of particular group as unacceptable ? I ask that not least because , as I be sure the Secretary of State will intend , put they on a Government blacklist will have a chilling impact more widely on their place in society ; from financial service to the medium , who be likely to engage with they ? at what stage in the process will those group that he decide be worthy of examination be able to present evidence in their defence ? my second question be : if a Member of this House disagree with the view of the Secretary of State or the Government , and decide to invite that group into the House or to be a member of that group , will the Government refuse to engage with the Member of Parliament ? again , I be grateful to my right hon . friend and commend he on the work he do in the Home Office during his time there . he will have know that there be an already exist definition , with which there be an obligation on Government not to engage with certain group . he will also know that while he be there Sir William Shawcross point out that that definition need to be update and those engagement principle reinforce . we be simply continue the work that my right hon . friend do so diligently and effectively while at the Home Office . organisation such as the British National Socialist Movement and Patriotic Alternative , which I mention , be one that I hope no Member of this House would want to deal with . obviously , however , each individual must look to their own conscience about the organisation with which they engage . this be purely about government ; Parliament be , quite rightly , sovereign . follow the point make by the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , I urge the Secretary of State to be cautious in all of this . those of we who campaign against apartheid in the 1970 be often condemn , and although the African National Congress be never ban in Britain , there be call to ban it . thing change and history move on ; those who march for peace in Ireland be condemn at the time , and later we have the Good Friday agreement . so I ask the Secretary of State : what be the status of this statement ? do it have legal force ? will it be an instruction to the police ? will it be an instruction to local authority ? exactly how will it be implement ? on page 5 and 6 of the Secretary of State ' s statement , he rightly make the point that we have right of religious assembly , free speech and organisation . it be important to state those , and they be all enshrine in the european convention on human right . will he assure we — because this be not mention anywhere in this document — that there be no plan by the Government or the conservative party to withdraw from the european convention on human right and therefore from the European Court of Human Rights ? for all its failing and inefficiency , the convention underpin human right in a very important way . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the point he make . his question give I an opportunity to clarify that we will proceed with caution and that this definition govern only Government engagement and funding . other autonomous organisation must and will make their own judgment ; this be simply about what Government and their agency do . he make the point that people and organisation can change over time , and that be true . there be people who have be member of extremist organisation and have then change their view and be invaluable in help we to challenge the work of extremist : those who be formerly member of islamist organisation such as Hizb ut - Tahrir have be valuable in counter that hate ; and those people who be formerly member of neo - nazi organisation have be invaluable in make sure that we can police their activity . of course , it be always within the human heart to have the capacity to change and reform . of course , the first duty of any state be to protect its citizen and maintain national security . many of we have different experience of deal with extremism . I serve on the Home Affairs Committee for three year , deal with extremism and radicalisation in that regard . as someone who come from a muslim faith , I get 1 , 000 piece of hatred from the far right and the same from Islamist Daesh - inspire individual . I have also have a death threat against I that be be investigate by Kent police , and other Members will have their own different experience . I say to the Secretary of State that this statement be be make today , after 16 month of our Government not have an independent adviser to tackle Islamophobia . this statement be also be make two week after the Government - fund body Tell MAMA publish datum show that there have be 2 , 000 hate incident or crime against the muslim community — we have not have a statement from the Government on that or on engagement with the muslim community . People will be look at today ' s statement with that backdrop in mind . I want the Secretary of State to provide I with clarification about the interpretation of the definition . be I right to say that a Minister will make the determination as to whether something create a " permissive environment " or be " intolerant " ? I mean no disrespect to current or future Ministers , but give Ministers that responsibility raise a real concern , because it then come down to each Minister ' s own judgment . we need to ensure that we have a thorough , independent and fair process , because we be all committed to our national security . I be grateful to my hon . friend , who have endure the consequence of extremism himself and have be a very valuable voice for religious freedom for many year . he make two important point . the first be about the need to be vigilant in deal with anti - muslim hatred . that be why my right hon . friend the Security Minister announce more than £ 100 million of funding to well protect mosque , school and other muslim community centre — I commend that initiative . it be also why the Government continue to fund the excellent organisation Tell MAMA , whose founder I have the opportunity to meet again yesterday to discuss the approach that we be take . my hon . Friend ask whether Ministers alone will make the judgment . minister will make that judgement , inform by impartial civil service advice and academic research . for a number of year , I have be meet and work with an organisation that in 2018 publish its report " our shared british future : Muslims and Integration in the UK " . I support that report because it call for " equal integration for all " , for we to " break down barrier " and work towards tackle the challenge that hinder integration , and for we to " celebrate british diversity " and the success of our model of integration . it also report on the role of faith organisation in integration , recognise that faith can support integration effort . that organisation be the Muslim Council of Britain . the Secretary of State deprecate the leak around this report , but the informal spin and briefing that have take place have drag the name of the Muslim Council of Britain through the mud in recent day . he have not answer the question as to what appeal process there will be , aside from judicial review . will organisation and individual have access to legal aid for judicial review in challenge decision make by the Secretary of State on this ? I think it be the Labour Government , when Gordon Brown be Prime Minister , that raise concern about some of the activity and view express by member of the Muslim Council of Britain . any organisation about which concern be raise be an organisation that we will be very careful in scrutinise before take any step . when we do take any step — if we take any step — the evidence will be clearly lay out . I absolutely support my right hon . friend ' s aim in make the statement , in term of protect our democracy and protect we from violence and the kind of terrorist threat we have see over recent week , but I share the concern that many hon . member have raise . in separate the definition of extremism from actual violence and harm , and in use term like " fundamental right " , which do not have a definition in law , we risk criminalise or , at the very least , chill the speech of people who have perfectly legitimate , harmless view . to go back to the example of gender critical feminist , a gender critical feminist might be intolerant of the right of people to change their sex on their birth certificate . they might seek to undermine that right by seek to repeal the Gender Recognition Act 2004 , for example . they would be label extremist under these regulation , as I understand they . as to impartial civil servant decide these thing , I be afraid I do not think that be always the case . certainly , I have see civil servant wear very unimpartial lanyard on this particular issue . I seek my right hon . friend ' s reassurance that not only will such group not be label extremist now , but there will be protection so they will never be label that way in the future . it be precisely because I share the concern raise by my hon . friend that we have make the definition tight . I be sure she be aware of the exist wording of the 2011 definition , which have a far broad range of group that could fall within its ambit . by be more narrow , precise and rigorous , we more effectively protect free speech . she refer to criminalise . let we be clear that there be nothing in this definition that would lead to a ban . it be simply about say which organisation Government should and should not engage with . I be sure she would agree with I that neo - nazi organisation and islamist organisation , of the kind that I draw attention to , be the kind of organisation the Government should not be engage with . it be regrettable that in the past we have . the Government ' s independent reviewer of terrorism , Jonathan Hall , and the Government ' s independent adviser on antisemitism , Lord Mann , have both criticise what they have learn of these outline proposal for a new non - statutory definition of extremism . Jonathan Hall point out that Hizb ut - Tahrir be proscribe under the Terrorism Act 2000 — quite rightly — for its reaction to the attack of 7 October , and he say the proposal mark a shift " away from people who be do bad thing , towards people who think bad thing " . Lord Mann point to the contradiction in ban some speaker from university , have just pass a law to enshrine freedom of speech in university , and he talk about " the politic of division " do nothing to help the jewish community . will the Secretary of State reflect on the advice of the Government ' s independent reviewer of terrorism and their independent adviser on antisemitism ? I meet they both in the preparation for the work we have do today . I think it be the case that the independent adviser on antisemitism , Lord Mann , whose work be outstanding , say on broadcast today that he regard this as an improvement on the exist definition . I be grateful for that support and for the hon . Gentleman ' s question , which have give I the opportunity to relay that to the House . I be worried about this . will my right hon . friend reassure I that nothing in this statement will add to the increase culture , in what should be a free country , of the intolerance of the right to offend ? I might be offend if people make extreme attack on Christianity , but they have an absolute right to do so . People have a right to criticise religious people or particular religion . equally , Orthodox Jews , devout evangelical Christians with a particular view of the Bible and devout traditional Muslims have an absolute right to say what they believe in a free society , even if it be very unfashionable . I could not agree more . it be the principle of Milton ' s " Areopagitica " that govern my approach towards free speech : idea should contend on the plain of argument and people should be able to discern good argument from bad argument . all the statement do be to tighten the exist definition . the concern that my right hon . friend raise about definition be use to marginalise speech exist with the previous definition , to an extent . now , with this tight definition , along with the fact that the Government will publish the reason why they choose not to engage with a group , thing will be clear . as I say , this be purely about Government engagement and financing . I know that he , like I , would want to ensure that taxpayer ' money be stewarde wisely . this tweet be like by Sir Paul Marshall : " civil war be come . there have never be a country that have remain peaceful with a sizeable islamic presence … once the Muslims get to 15 - 20 % of the population the current cold civil war will turn hot . " many other incendiary tweet be like or retweete by Marshall , a substantial donor to both the Tory party and the Secretary of State personally , accord to a recent investigation by HOPE not hate and " the News Agents " . how do the Secretary of State square his definition of extremism with accept money from someone like Marshall ? I deprecate the personal attack on Sir Paul Marshall , who be a distinguished philanthropist and a supporter of Ark academy — state school that have do so much , include in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , to improve the life of disadvantaged child from a variety of minority background . last evening in the House of Commons , I attend the Big Iftar celebration of the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims . one person after another say to I in private that they be fearful of an increase mood of Islamophobia . indeed , right hon . and hon . friend have refer to the Tell MAMA statistic that show a 335 % increase in anti - muslim hatred since October . I be worried about a slippery slope . I commend what the Secretary of State say about the statement just look at community engagement , but can we be assure that this be not a slippery slope ? will it lead to a position across the criminal law , month and year ahead , where people feel that they be no long able to speak their mind ? as an example , two or three week ago I attend a rally in my own constituency in support of Gaza but , as we have see in recent month , such attendance have almost be outlaw and people have be silence . will the Secretary of State give a commitment that this statement will not be the commencement of a slippery slope ? as someone who grow up in Northern Ireland , in an environment of terrorism , I know that it be easy to think that we be put one person away , but to end up with 1 , 000 enemy behind they . I be very grateful to my hon . friend , whose experience not only in Northern Ireland , but work abroad to promote peace and inclusion , be to be commend . he be quite right . the Department that I lead fund tell MAMA , which do such important work in highlight and recording act of anti - muslim hatred . there have be a dreadful increase in such act . we want to work with organisation on the ground to counter that hatred . as I mention , sadly some of the organisation that have be support in the past have be extremist and have seek to intimidate british Muslims . that be why we need to be careful about those with whom we work , in order to present a united front against anti - muslim hatred . it be quite clear that there be a shared endeavour between the two front Benches , but as question have continue , it be clear that there be unease on the Back Benches on both side of the House , and for very good reason . it be obviously true that this be part of the culture war wallpaper that be be create for the general election soon to come . it be not good enough to say that it do not seek to ban or jail anyone — try get a bank account once you have be brand by Michael Gove as an extremist . if we be debate extremism in the Oxford Union , as once we do in the Secretary of State ' s salad day on another matter , we would all be talk about what be the definition . I remind the Secretary of State that a former Speaker of this House be wear a " Hang Nelson Mandela " T - shirt when my right hon . friend the Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) and I be seek the overthrow of apartheid and be call divisive . this building be design to show that politics be full of division , and sometimes those revile as extremist turn out to have be right all along . I congratulate the hon . member on his election as Member of Parliament for Rochdale . as he rightly point out , we have know each other for several decade . during that time , I have always admire his oratorical skill and the passion with which he make his case . there be nothing in this definition that any hon . Member should fear will inhibit they in make their case . while I passionately disagree with the hon . gentleman on so many issue , he have the same right as every other Member of this House and deserve to be listen to with respect as he make his case . by state that a free society require that the muslim religion accommodate itself to the same level of scrutiny , criticism and even blasphemy that Christianity have become accustomed to , be I stray into the Secretary of State ' s permissive environment ? I be not an extremist , be I ? my right hon . friend be many , many thing : learn , wise , kind , a champion of the New Forest and a distinguished former educationalist . he be not an extremist , and I shall continue to admire the rigour with which he prosecute his case . I share the concern of my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) that Government Departments may have be engage with extremist and racist in the past . the Secretary of State seem to indicate that engagement , or lack of engagement , be dependent on the definition . be it not also dependent on the common sense of Ministers ? if minister be willing to engage with extremist and racist , surely they should not be Ministers in the first place . I absolutely take the hon . member ' s point . the key thing here be that sometimes there be organisation and individual that seek to operate by present one face to one group and a different face to another . that be why we need due diligence . mistake have be make in the past . I think those mistake be make in good faith and unwittingly , but as have be point out by member from across this House , a number of people have express their concern about those past error . that be why we need a tight , more precise definition . I commend the Government on what they be attempt to do to oppose and fight all form of extremism and hatred in our country . do the Secretary of State agree that what underpin Britain be our ancient liberty and freedom , free speech and the rule of law , which uphold our democracy under the Crown ? do he believe , as I do , that we must defend all our british value and tradition ? we must teach they in school , and we must ensure that british value be the order of the day . my hon . friend make a very important point . in our school and other institution , we should make sure that people from every background be acquaint with our history and teach the very british habit of scepticism , question and sometimes raucous expression of opposition to government and other . that spirit of democratic challenge be core to this country , and no one well exemplify be able to speak out without fear or favour than my hon . friend . the press release attach to this statement , which refer to 7 October , seem to imply , deliberately or otherwise , that protest and other human response to the horror of the Hamas attack on Israel and the bombardment of Gaza be extreme . in my diverse and share Belfast South constituency , we be battle extremism at the moment , in the form of a rash of menacing and racist poster about foreigner and housing . it be my genuine belief that that rhetoric be be fan by this government — the Government of a party fund by a person who say that they hate all black woman . it be worth mention that Northern Ireland Office Ministers meet representative of paramilitary during their negotiation on the withdrawal agreement . this kind of politic and the departure from pluralism and tolerance be part of the reason why I and many other advocate for a new Ireland by exclusively peaceful and democratic mean . that would of course undermine and change the constitution of the United Kingdom and its democracy . can the Secretary of State confirm that people like I , who advocate for a new Ireland , be not extremist under the second part of his definition ? no , of course not . the Social Democratic and Labour party have a long and proud tradition of argue for Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland to become a new state , and that have an impeccable political tradition . as she rightly point out , many people wish to protest about what be happen in the middle east . we may disagree about aspect of that conflict , but I hope we all share a sincere desire to bring peace to the middle east . we all deprecate the regrettable incident of prejudice on the street of South Belfast . I welcome the clear statement today . it be right that we openly debate and tackle extremism in this place . at this time of tension and sensitivity , do the Secretary of State agree that politician have a responsibility to dial down the rhetoric , that division must not be exploit for political gain , and that we all must work together across the House to achieve that ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . his distinguished career of public service even before he enter this House show a commitment to work across divide to strengthen our democracy . the Secretary of State speak of share our working about affected organisation . he do not share his working after his abrupt decision to pull Government funding from the Inter Faith Network , cause that respect organisation to close . how do he explain the contradiction between his word and his recent action ? a letter be publish outline the reasoning behind that , and the Government be only one of a number of funder of the Inter Faith Network . I do not want to be accuse of dial up the rhetoric , but I must say that I and million of people in this country be utterly feed up with these protest that have be take place in our nation ' s capital . not every person who attend these protest be an extremist , and not every person who attend these protest be a radical , but many be , and they be go unchallenged . I have jewish friend who will not go into their own capital because they do not feel safe , and it be weekend after weekend after weekend . when be something go to happen ? all the public see be impotence . it be fuel extremism , and it be link to this debate . if the situation do not get any well , and we continue to see hate on our street go unchallenged , be the Government prepare to strip responsibility for police in London from the Mayor of London , and to give a far strong steer to the Metropolitan police , who every weekend , from what I can see , be fail to stand up for our value , and for jewish people , so that they feel safe ? my hon . friend speak passionately about this . I know from talk to jewish friend that some of the statement and action that accompany these marche cause they to feel a profound sense of fear . that have be well record not just by the Government ' s Commission for counter Extremism , but by member of this House , so I share his concern for the jewish community . I should say that the Metropolitan Police Commissioner take his responsibility very seriously . there have be a number of arrest alongside these marche , and individual have be prosecute for incitement and for hateful action . in addition , my colleague in the Home Office have commission a report from Baron Walney , John Woodcock as be , look at how we give the police all the power that they need . we will come forward in due course with a response to that report . I be afraid that the statement have not assuage the fear that so many have about what the Government be really up to here . give recent event , on which the Secretary of State be remarkably silent in his statement , may I ask whether we should count as an extremist someone say that an MP should be shoot ? or be those who have donate £ 10 million to the conservative party exempt from such definition ? would the Tory party not be well off get its own house in order , rather than make this clearly political intervention , which have more to do with the upcoming general election , and try to silence the huge number of peaceful opponent of the Government ' s Gaza policy , than it have with public safety ? as I mention early , speak as someone who be the victim of a determined effort to kill I , and because the individual who be try to kill I go on to kill a friend and colleague from this House , I take incredibly seriously threat of violence . I have long admire the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , and I have no hesitation in state that those comment be disgusting , but the intention in bring forward this definition today be to make sure that the government — we be talk about only the Government — work with organisation that be commit to peace and great social cohesion . I hope that , on reflection , the hon . Member will recognise that we can work together to deal with these hateful extremist , whose action we both , I be sure , deprecate . my right hon . friend will understand that the people of Southend West will welcome his statement , and appreciate his commitment to tackle extremism , but they also know that the devil be not just in the detail , but in the enforcement . they have see the antisemitic slogan " from the river to the sea " project on to their Parliament — if such slogan be not already against the law , they certainly should be — and they have see the police take insufficient action . on marche against the middle east war in Southend , we have see doll cover in white bandage , spatter with a red substance , and placard say , " Anna Firth kill baby " . clearly , both those thing be , if not extreme , then very close to be within my right hon . friend ' s definition of extremism . can he assure I and the House that we will ensure that the message about what be extremism and what be against the law get through to the police , and that appropriate action be take ? my hon . friend be correct to draw attention to the fact that there have be occasion recently when people motivate to make a particular point have cross the threshold . I know that the police take those transgression incredibly seriously , as do the Security Minister and the Home Secretary . over the past week , as we have meander towards this statement , much of the debate have be play out in the press ; there have be definition , and various organisation that could potentially be proscribe have be name . how can my constituent in Ilford South have any faith in the Secretary of State ' s ability to decide who be , and who be not , an extremist ? I ask because it have also be brief that his preferred appointment as the anti - muslim hatred adviser be Haras Rafiq , the former chief executive officer of the Quilliam Foundation , which work with US anti - muslim think - tank and promote the favourite theory of Nick Griffin , the great replacement theory — a conspiracy theory that be so debunked and extreme that it should be nowhere near the thinking of the Secretary of State . yesterday , most damningly , Tommy Robinson , a far - right extremist — everyone in this House know who he be — praise that appointment . how can my constituent have faith that the decision the Secretary of State will make be not politicised ? because we will publish the evidence behind they . I warmly welcome today ' s statement , but we have to consider the fact that organisation be populate by individual . individual who have hateful view may be expel by those organisation , or may go off and form other organisation that will not be on the ban list . as the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) say , it be individual who seek to radicalise young people , either from abroad or in the UK . what action will the Secretary of State take to ensure that foreign national who seek to radicalise our young people be prevent from do so ? my hon . friend make a very good point , relate to that make by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . the Home Office be vigilant about who it allow to come here , and it conduct appropriate work to ensure that visa be not grant to people who be here to sow division and hate . we know from the work of the Intelligence and Security Committee , under the leadership of the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , and its report on extreme right - wing terrorism that a number of people be radicalise not simply by shadowy organisation on the dark web , but at least in part by the mainstream medium . how do the Secretary of State see his statement and his definition of the creation of a permissive environment — I be think of call judge " enemy of the people " — intersect with the mainstream medium ? all of we have a responsibility to be vigilant about the danger of extremism . I be grateful to many media outlet for shine a light on extremism , from the BBC to the Times . the hon . Gentleman mention one particular newspaper headline . he may disagree with it or find it objectionable , but the most important thing to recognise be that a vigorous culture of free speech , sustain by a free and independent press , be a critical part of our democratic culture . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and for respond to question for an hour and 13 minute . estimate Day [ 1st Allotted Day ] Department for Education SEND Provision [ relevant document : First Report of the Education Committee , Ofsted ' s work with school , HC 117 , and Ofsted ' s response , HC 624 ; Seventh Report of the Education Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , persistent absence and support for disadvantaged pupil , HC 970 , and the Government response , Session 2023 - 24 , HC 368 ; oral evidence take before the Education Committee on 28 March and 23 May 2023 , on Special Educational Needs and Disabilities ( SEND ) , session 2022 - 23 , HC 1248 ; write evidence to the Education Committee , on Special Educational Needs and Disabilities ( SEND ) , report to the House on 23 May and 5 September 2023 , session 2022 - 23 , HC 1248 ; correspondence between the Education Committee and the Minister for Children , Families and Wellbeing , on Special Educational Needs and Disabilities ( SEND ) , report to the House on 19 September and 19 October 2023 , session 2022 - 23 . ] motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Department for Education : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 20 , 997 , 648 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 500 , ( 2 ) the resource authorise for capital purpose be reduce by £ 304 , 572 , 000 as so set out , and ( 3 ) the sum authorise for issue out of the Consolidated Fund be reduce by £ 912 , 367 , 000 . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) I call Mr Robin Walker to lead the debate . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be grateful to colleague on the Liaison Committee and the Backbench Business Committee for support my application for the debate and give it the prominent position that it have today . I thank all those who support the application . I note that it be an unusual subject that bring together the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , and the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . not all of they can be here today , but I know that each have passionately support the case for more and well target investment to support child with special need . I warmly welcome the hon . member for Wellingborough ( Gen Kitchen ) to the Chamber . it be greatly to her credit that she have choose to make her maiden speech on this subject ; I look forward to hear it . there have be many debate on the importance of special educational need and disability in the House over the past few year , so this be not new ground , and I make no apology for that . there have be Green Papers , a Command Paper , and the excellent Backbench Business debate under the auspex of my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden , which be so well subscribe . it be no surprise to I that today ' s debate be similarly well support across the Chamber . I do not intend to repeat all the argument from the previous debate , in which 30 member speak . I hope that the Minister will take they all as read in his response . in my casework as MP for Worcester , and in the evidence that I have see as Chair of the Education Committee , there be a consistent trend of school at every phase and of every variety struggle to meet the rise level of SEND , of family struggle to get the need of their child properly meet and support , and of child with SEN too often be home educate , not as a result of genuine elective home education but as a result of their parent feel that there be no other way in which their need can be support . we have hear this at the Education Committee describe as " non - elective home education " . the hon . Member have secure a really important debate . one big problem that come across strongly in Derbyshire be the lack of capacity within the local authority to do the assessment . many school be support parent and their special need child , but be unable to get assessment for month or even year . how big an issue do he think that local authority resource be in all this ? the hon . Gentleman be right : that be definitely part of the challenge . I will try to come back to that later in my speech . the briefing that the Local Government Association have provide for the debate be very helpful in draw attention to that . in the previous Backbench Business debate , member from both side of the House highlight the need for early identification of need , and all the different organisation across local authority , health and education that need resource and support to deliver that . the need for early identification be incredibly strong . there have be some progress towards it , and I congratulate the Minister for the stride that he have be able to make , but we can not have a genuinely universal education system unless we have universal early identification of special need , so will my hon . friend welcome the fact that I have secure the opportunity to reintroduce my Dyslexia Screening and teacher Training Bill , as a ten - minute rule Bill , on 23 April ? I congratulate my right hon . friend on secure that opportunity , and for all the progress that he have make in draw attention to the need of dyslexic child and identify those need early . he be right that we need to look at how we well support universal identification of need at an early stage . he will recognise that some condition only show themselves over time , so it be important that there be the right intervention at every level to identify those need and ensure they be properly meet . when we debate child miss school , as we often have in recent year , we often find it difficult to tell which be do so because of unmet need . the work of the Children ' s Commissioner , among many other , have highlight that that be a major cause . when we debate rise level of home education without the benefit of a much - need statutory register , which the Government have now pledge to support , we find it impossible to tell how many of the rise number of case be genuinely elective . my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) be sponsor of a Bill that seek to address the issue , and I hope the whole House will support its Second Reading tomorrow . I welcome the fact that opposition Front Benchers have already do so and I believe that the Government have as well . both those factor , as highlight in the Education Committee ' s report on persistent absence , point to the need for urgent action on SEND . the Government ' s own Command Paper be also clear on that point . in fact , in prepare for this debate , I be strike by recent comment make by the Secretary of State at the Association of School and College Leaders conference : " the massive demand , of more and more child diagnose or even not diagnose but have special educational need , that ' s something that I don ' t think we ' ve get the right system in place . if you look at special education need , we haven ' t build enough special educational need place or school . we have council under pressure because family can ' t get the right support that they need " — a succinct summary of the nature of the challenge , which colleague across the House will recognise all too well . in that context , we need to consider the departmental estimate of the Department for Education , the £ 57 . 8 billion rise to £ 58 . 5 billion for the core school budget , and the £ 82 billion rise to more than £ 100 billion overall in the supplementary estimate , as well as the £ 6 . 3 billion capital budget . although it would be easy for a Government Member to point to those big number and trumpet what be without doubt record sum in cash term for revenue funding , they do not tell the whole story . the excellent House of Commons Library briefing prepare for this debate confirm both cash and real - term growth in spending on high need since 2015 , as well as a fast trajectory of increase need as identify by education , health and care plan . within those number , it be to the credit of Ministers in this government that the amount spend on high - need funding have double in the past 10 year and have increase by more than 60 % since 2019 . that show some recognition of the importance of invest in this space . but it be also clear , as we debate on the F40 — Campaign for Fairer Funding in Education — motion a few week ago , that revenue funding have not be sufficient to meet demand . over the same period , the growth of ehcp alone have more than double . the level of need demonstrate not only by the number rise from 240 , 000 nine year ago to more than 500 , 000 today , but by the complexity of condition and the demand for specialist place to support highly complex pupil , have grow even fast . I be tell that 180 child per day be be identify as have special educational need . for every child with an EHCP , as the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) point out , many more be await assessment or have their need already meet in public or independent school without the need for an EHCP . nevertheless , those child also need support . I do not intend to rehearse all the argument for the early identification of support need , but that be a vital part of the argument . also to the credit of Ministers be the great recognition in recent year of the need for more capital investment in SEND place . even in the most recent Budget , the main capital commitment for school - age education be a furth £ 105 million for 15 SEN free school , deliver up to 2 , 000 specialist place across the country . I welcome that , but I observe that the calculation that just over £ 100 million can deliver 15 whole new special school seem a challenging one . that give a cost of £ 52 , 000 per place , compare with more than £ 86 , 666 per place in the calculation that the Government make only three year ago — before the impact of three year of high inflation for building cost . I thank my hon . friend for give way and for all he do on the Education Committee . in my constituency surgery , I , like many member of Parliament , see parent in real pain . they want the good for their child , and they be wait for one to two year to get a plan so that their healthcare and education need can be meet . my hon . Friend ask about the allocation of the £ 105 million in the Budget . can he clarify his understanding of how the Government will allocate that across the country ? I need an allocation for my constituent in Gillingham and Rainham , who urgently need it . all member want to know whether that will be do on a fair basis . I congratulate my hon . friend for make the case for his constituent . the question he ask be one for those on the Front Bench , and I hope the Minister can far clarify the process of allocate those resource . at the last spending review in 2021 , the Department secure £ 2 . 6 billion over the review period for a mixture of new specialist setting , expansion of exist one and delivery of basis in mainstream school . in total , that be design to deliver 30 , 000 new school place . will the Minister , in his reply , update the House on progress on spend that substantial capital investment ? can he update the House , too , on the total number of specialist place already deliver ? will he explain how deliverable the Government have find this programme , at a cost of about £ 86 , 666 per place , and the rationale for the Budget announcement be so much cheap ? I thank my hon . friend for his exceptional work in this area . he share my passion for the new Malvern - base autism free school , which will benefit child across Worcestershire and more widely . can he update the House on how he see progress on deliver the new free school ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her intervention and for her campaigning to secure those vitally need place in south Worcestershire , which I hope will benefit my constituent as well as hers . I want to more place deliver for autistic student in Worcestershire as swiftly as possible . that be be do through a combination of the provision that she have rightly champion and campaign for , a new base in my constituency in a mainstream school — which the county council be commission — and the provision recently create for an AP , or alternate provision , school in the north of the county . there be some welcome progress there , but as I will touch on later , I do not feel that it be quite enough to meet need . back on that £ 2 . 6 billion , I have some concern about the progress of that much need capital investment . careful examination of the supplementary estimate for the Department reveal a £ 300 million transfer from the capital to the revenue budget . I ask for reassurance that none of that have come out of the £ 2 . 6 billion originally target for investment in SEND . if any have , will the Minister tell we how much ? can he provide figure for how many place have be commission in each of the three category set out in the 2021 spending review and how many more be in the pipeline ? from long experience and from my work on the Select Committee , I know that the DFE have routinely underspent its allocate capital , but at a time when the need for SEND placement be so high and we have the urgent challenge of RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — affect many mainstream and specialist school , I hope that the Department be protect the precious investment that Ministers , include I and my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , fight so hard to secure . I be grateful for my hon . friend secure this debate and for his work on the subject . in Cheadle , we be welcome a new £ 70 million SEND provision be open at the end of this year , in September ; 133 place will be provide there . teacher and headteacher I have talk to be tell I that in their establishment and school , they want more resource - base provision , which might involve capital investment . go along with that as well , we have the problem mention early in secure the education , health and care plan . do my hon . friend agree that all those issue need to be address if we be to get the right future for our child ? yes , be the short answer . my hon . friend sum up some of the challenge neatly . I come to some of the recommendation of the Select Committee before touch in a little more detail on the local picture in my part of the world . during my time as Chair and under my predecessor , now the Minister for Skills , the Education Committee have hold a number of session on SEND and the implementation of the 2014 reform . in 2019 , before my time , the Committee conclude that the reform of 2014 " be the right one " in principle , but that implementation have " be badly hamper " , notably by administration and funding , which at that time it call " wholly inadequate " . the Committee also call for a more rigorous framework for local authority ; a direct line of appeal for parent and school to the Department for Education ; power for the local government and social care ombudsman to investigate school complaint ; and development of more employment and training opportunity post 16 for people with SEND . the Government point to their Green Paper and towards the Command Paper that be finally publish two year later in response , but only the first and last of those recommendation have be fully address . more recently , under the chairmanship of my right hon . friend who be now the Minister for Skills , and his predecessor , the Committee hold session and publish correspondence in which SEND funding , and delay in process it , have repeatedly be raise . I be grateful for correspondence in which Ministers have unequivocally confirm that there be no push from the Government to ration or limit EHCP number , but I note that in his letter of October last year , the Minister on the Front Bench state that " in - year funding delay occur due to insufficient planning from local authority " . will he update the House on what step he be take to address that and to ensure that every local authority have the resource and support it need to plan properly in this space ? the vast majority of local authority have high - need deficit , which have be grow rather than shrink in recent year . I have no doubt that my hon . friend will talk about the valuable work that the Department support through the safety valve and " deliver well Value " programme , but the fact that those programme be constantly grow , as be the cumulative deficit of local authority , surely make the case for more funding . at some stage , we have to acknowledge that produce ever more help to manage the level of deficit be not a sustainable solution , and that investment be require to clear or remove they . the high need deficit be now compound by the fact that the same local authority have rapidly grow deficit in child ' s social care and transport , limit their potential to cross - subsidise . the Government promise to introduce in their SEND and AP improvement plan a new national framework of banding and price tariff for high need funding , and more detail be to follow later in 2023 . I be not aware that that have be publish , but my local specialist school tell I that , although the total level of high need funding have see much - need increase , and underlie per pupil funding have rise in real term , the banding for specific condition have not have an inflationary increase for over a decade . give the rise cost of employ teach assistant to support complex need , surely that need to be review . at every level of education , my Committee have make recommendation about SEND and encourage the Department to do more to support SEND child and our family . in our childcare report , we recommend that the Government amend the early year foundation stage framework to ensure that more staff involve in a child ' s care receive mandatory training in identify and mange type of SEND . the Government reject that proposal but state that newly revise criterion for level 3 early year educator qualification , alongside level 2 criterion , now include standalone criterion on SEND identification and practice . they also make welcome announcement about support for early year special educational need co - ordinator , and partially accept our recommendation to expand family hub — although , to be clear , I believe that they can and should go far . absence rate be significantly high for pupil with SEND . in our report on persistent absence , the Committee recommend that the Government prioritise resource for early identification of need , inclusion and assessment in mainstream school to ensure that they can adequately support pupil with SEND . we recommend make attendance in specialist school a key metric of success , recognise both the support that have child in such setting provide family and the developmental benefit to the child . the Committee also recommend that the Government ensure that pupil with SEND be place in alternative provision only for a limited time and as a way of address issue affect their attendance in mainstream school . the DFE should discourage its use as a way of manage behaviour . the Department for Education say in its response that it be work with 32 local authority and testing approach in school to improve early identification of SEND - relate condition . additionally , it be pilot early language support for every child , jointly fund by NHS England , to have speech and language professional base in early year primary school to spot early delay in development and take swift appropriate action . pilot be great , but we need that support everywhere in the country . for our recent report on Ofsted ' s work with school , we hear that lack of expertise among inspector be see by specialist school as a particular problem . the report recommend that Ofsted ensure that the lead inspector always have expertise relevant to the type of school , and that a majority of member of large team have the relevant expertise . we recommend that factor , such as the number of student from disadvantaged group and those with SEND , should be clearly describe and visible in the final ofsted report . we hope that that will be reiterate both to the new chief inspector , through his " Big Listen " consultation , which be launch last week , and to the Government . evidence to our career inquiry suggest that pupil with SEND be not receive adequate career advice and guidance , and highlight that they face additional barrier and need extra support to access the same level of career education and opportunity as their peer . the Committee recommend that the Department set out the step that it intend to take to ensure that all senco be fully train and work with career leader or with a school or college . the Committee have welcome the increase focus on support internship and apprenticeship target at SEND pupil , but as we highlight in our post - 16 qualification report , too many SEND pupil be be hold back by the focus on GCSE grade 4 for English and math as a gateway to progression . we have also agree in principle to look into the Government ' s change to disabled student ' allowance to ensure that the consolidation of that system do not lead to a reduction in opportunity for SEND student to progress into and sustain high education . that matter because we know that pupil with special educational need be a rise proportion of the school population . their life chance matter just as much a everyone else ' s , and their parent ' ability to work , support they and live a full life depend on their receive the right support through childhood , in school and into early adulthood . this be not just the morally right and good thing to do for the individual in question and their family , but it be massively good for wide society because it unlock the potential of neurodivergent individual , who be among the most creative and gifted people in the country . do my hon . friend agree ? my hon . friend put it perfectly , and I wholeheartedly agree with he . the logic behind the Government ' s welcome increase in investment in childcare , which I have strongly support , apply just as much , if not more , when it come to support child with SEND . if we get this right , there be benefit for the life chance of the individual and of the family who support they . rise — I will not give way because I need to make progress . I have lose count of the number of highly educate parent who have feel that they need to give up work to support their child . an increase in the departmental estimate to support SEND child would repay itself in the future earning of their parent and would help the Government to meet their worthy aspiration of halve the disability employment gap and ensure that work pay for future generation . I should acknowledge some welcome local progress . in Worcestershire , two new specialist setting for child with autism have open in the past few year : the one mention by my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) , and one in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) . the county council be in the process of commission a new secondary school with a specialist autism base in Worcester . we have see expansion in the number of pupil support at both Regency High School and Fort Royal Community Primary School in Worcester , and we have see improvement in the opening of new setting in alternative provision . an exciting partnership between Heart of Worcestershire College and the National Star college in Cheltenham promise well local progression opportunity for further education student with SEND . our university pride itself on be one of the most inclusive in the country . the demand on all our setting be rise insatiably . Fort Royal in particular have see a huge increase in severity among the population of pupil it serve . that have lead the school to seek agreement with the county council to reduce its intake so that it can ensure that pupil with highly complex need be properly and safely support . the principal of the school have recently write to local politician to highlight that and the risk of local need not be meet by 2030 . will the Minister look at that correspondence and consider carefully the need for small specialist provision in Worcestershire , particularly at primary level ? I have over many year make the case to move Fort Royal Community Primary School — a brilliant school on a highly constrain site — to a location where it could grow and expand . I also want to raise the concern of respite setting such as New Hope Worcester , which provide vital support to SEND family during the holiday . New Hope have see a reduction in the number of place that it be commission to provide . parent from that setting have raise with I their concern that more support be urgently need for respite care , which help to ensure that their child can engage in specialist education and avoid the far great cost of child be take into home . although that support come from the budget of the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities rather than the DFE , we need to acknowledge the importance of cross - departmental working to well support need . the Local Government Association ' s helpful briefing for this debate , which I have touch on already , major on that issue and make a number of constructive recommendation . it call for a cross - government strategy for child and young people , argue that DLUHC should co - ordinate capacity issue impact on child ' s social care , SEND and the early year . the LGA want council to have the power to lead local SEND system , and hold health and education partner to account for their work support SEND child and young people . the LGA call on the Government to use the SEND improvement plan to recognise the vital interconnection between SEN and mental health . child and young people with learn difficulty be over four time more likely than average to develop a mental health problem . that mean that one in seven of all child and young people with mental health difficulty in the UK will also have a learn disability . the report point out that good - quality early year provision can generate sustained and significant improvement in child ' s outcome , reduce disparity in later life , but neither council nor early year provider feel that they have sufficient funding , resource and tool to properly support child with SEND and their family . this morning , I attend the excellent briefing by the Children ' s Services Development Group on the launch of its " Hopeful Horizons " report . among the key recommendation of that report be urgent clarity on the banding and tariff arise from the new national standard , and speed up the building and registration of new service . the group point out that independent specialist adviser have a wealth of knowledge and want to work closely with the Government to make the process a success . it be good to see the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) in her place . I look forward to hear her proposal for ensure that any future Labour Government address SEND funding and provision well than they have in the past . I expect she to point to her party ' s flagship policy of impose vat on independent school as part of the solution for provide the resource to meet need . however , have hear many of the use to which Labour want to put that theoretical money , I be at a loss to see how any of it would provide the revenue or capital need to well support SEND child . in fact , in our last debate on this issue , in which no Labour Back Benchers speak , we hear from the hon . Lady ' s colleague that Labour do not plan to exempt specialist setting from its tax grab — only pupil in independent setting with an EHCP . I profoundly believe that that be a policy mistake that Labour would come to regret if it ever carry it out . many pupil with SEND be support either by their family or by local authority in independent provision , include many highly specialised school , and a small proportion of those pupil currently have ehcp . the decision to make that , and solely that , the gateway for avoid a 20 % increase in cost would create enormous and immediate demand for ehcp , which local authority and health structure be already struggle to provide in a timely manner . it could result in many pupil with SEND leave , or be take out of , setting that be currently meet their need and then seek ehcp in order to access setting that might . I do not believe that Labour have think this policy through , or that it have factor into its calculation that £ 86 , 000 per place for public provision . the DFE estimate show rise spend on public education and school and , within that , a rise level of investment in high need . all of that be welcome , but not sufficient . in 2014 , this House legislate to well support the need of SEND child , and as the Government themselves have acknowledge , the potential of that legislation have not yet be realise . I hope Front Benchers of whatever colour will reflect on the need for future estimate to well support this vital and worthy cause . in conclusion , I will support the departmental estimate , because they provide record level of funding for education in general and SEND in particular , but I believe there be a strong case for increase both capital and revenue investment in the latter . I call Gen Kitchen to make her maiden speech . thank you , Mr Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech on this vital topic , which come up a lot during the campaign . it be a great honour to stand here as the new Labour MP for Wellingborough . I be two year old when the last Labour MP for Wellingborough make their maiden speech in 1997 , but since then , we have have a highly visible Member of the Chamber . although Peter Bone and I disagree on many thing , he be an experienced campaigner and a lead voice in the Grassroots out campaign . wellingborough be not just a constituency , but a tapestry of diverse voice , experience and aspiration . from the street of our market town to the tranquil countryside that surround they , each corner of the constituency tell a story of resilience , ingenuity and community spirit . I pledge to honour , protect and champion this rich tapestry with every ounce of my being . many on this side of the House will have visit the beautiful constituency of Wellingborough during the campaign , but for those who do not make it on to the campaign trail , the constituency consist of the town of Wellingborough , Rushden , Higham Ferrers and Finedon , and the picturesque village that surround they . we be 50 minute from London by train , and close to the M1 and the A14 , so there be no reason for member not to visit for a cheeky weekend away to help boost our local economy and high street . as Wellingborough be a bellwether seat , the people of Orlingbury , Wollaston and Irchester often know the problem that the Government of the day will face before they do . the result of the campaign see the large swing this century , and the cleanliness of high street , highway , policing , access to education for child with special educational need and disability , and access to healthcare be crucial issue when knock on door from Bozeat to Wilby and the Harrowdens . it be strike how the community of Chelveston , Newton Bromswold and Grendon have all step up where the public sector have be cut . one village in particular , Great Doddington , hold a special place in my family history . the quaint village be where my great - grandfather , the Reverend Henry Hacking , serve from 1935 to 1938 as the parish vicar of St Nicholas after serve as an Army chaplain in the first world war . as many will know , both side of my family have serve in the armed force for three generation , and their commitment to public service and duty to our country be instill in I from a young age . I endeavour to make they proud , and have dedicate my professional career to the charity sector , fundraise for project to help those in need . on that point , I would like to highlight a couple of charity that have do incredible work to help the community and the constituency . the " Off the Streets " knife crime campaign have train the public on how to use bleed kit , and have design knife amnesty bin that have be instal in Queensway . I urge member to look at the work of that charity and encourage similar charity in their constituency . the Victoria Centre and Daylight Centre provide housing , food bank and a sense of community to Wellingborough town centre . SERVE in Rushden have step in to ensure that the elderly and disabled can get to doctor ' and hospital appointment now that the bus service be lack and urgent care be challenging . come from the charity sector , I be honour to be in a position to further their cause in this House . as part of my commitment and economic pledge to the constituent of Wellingborough , Mr Speaker , in the come month you can expect I to bang the drum for our town centre and high street , and encourage more tourist and member to visit the area . for a great Saturday , you could visit Irvin ' s speciality tea shop , whose tea I serve in my office , or have wine from the Wine Chateau , which be the only brick and mortar specialist shop that sell Moldovan wine — again , in my office . you could visit Rushden & Diamonds football club to support community football ; it be a great Saturday out — I and my dad have watch they score in the 97th minute . you could end your night at the award - win Ember restaurant in Wellingborough or the new restaurant in Rushden , La Estrella . if history be more your thing , the constituency be steep in it , with building from the Jacobean , Elizabethan and Caroline era . in fact , the Hind Hotel be the resting point for Oliver Cromwell and his army before the battle of Naseby in 1645 . Higham Ferrers ' town charter be from 1251 , and the town have a charming farmer ’ market on Saturday and Sunday in the historic town square , opposite the English Heritage site of Chichele College . the natural landscape of the constituency be breathtake . base within the Nene valley — pronounce differently if you ' re from from Cambridgeshire — the constituency host the internationally renowned Waendel Walk , which member can participate in this May ; I hope to see many of you with walk boot on . as a bonus attraction , my pug will do a small section of it too . thank you again , Mr Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech in a debate on this vital topic , and basically to launch the " Visit Wellingborough " campaign . I be honour by the opportunity , and will now give way to the estimate debate . I begin by congratulate the new hon . member for Wellingborough ( Gen Kitchen ) on an eloquent speech and on her " visit Wellingborough " campaign . that campaign be just embryonic right now ; I know that she be encourage some in the House to join it a couple of month ago , but sadly , I could not do so . no doubt it will continue . I note that before enter the House , the hon . Lady be an ardent fundraiser for many charity , include Sarcoma UK , a child ' s hospice , a child ' s health charity and the Salvation Army . I be delighted that she be take such an early interest in special educational need , a subject that be very close to my heart . I have just launch a charity , the Accessible Learning Foundation , to champion early identification of neurodivergent condition . maybe in the short time we will overlap in this House , she can teach I something about charity fundraising . I say " short time " , of course , because I be leave , not just because — [ Laughter . ] I will leave that hang . it be an excellent maiden speech : it be powerful , strong and clear , and do not go on nearly as long as the speech by the Chair of the Select Committee . by act in that way , she will win many friend right across the House , and I congratulate she . this be an important debate , because it be vital that we have strong provision for special educational need . I acknowledge and appreciate the work that the Minister have do on this issue and the progress that the Government have make . the Chair of the Select Committee be right to say that some of the promise of the 2014 Act that be the cornerstone of the legislative framework have be deliver on , but certainly not all of it . my particular focus be on the need for early identification . the argument be this : if we can identify special educational need and neurodiverse condition early , we can get the support in early , which be well value for the taxpayer as well as self - evidently well for the individual concern . in particular , I want to take on and defeat the argument that identify condition lead to labelling , which some say make the problem bad for an individual . that be not true — it be an antediluvian attitude that need to be abolish from our policy approach . have more information and datum about each child be well for those child and their teacher . for instance , early identification of dyslexia by assess the gap between a child ' s phonic ability — already assess in the early year 1 phonic test — and their oral linguistic ability be now easily doable use technology and artificial intelligence , which can automatically assess oral capability in a way that simply be not possible even a couple of year ago . know about that gap can help a teacher support a dyslexic child in a way that can mitigate the challenge that dyslexia bring and give they the skill to deal with those challenge , so that they can benefit from all the rest of their education . that be not just in English — in reading and writing — but in all other subject , which be of course build on reading and writing , especially those such as history that require significant amount of language . the argument that these condition be somehow not scientifically valid and we should not identify they early have be put to I by official in the Department , and most recently in the Times newspaper by the otherwise absolutely brilliant Matthew Parris , whom I love . he argue that he do not think attention deficit hyperactivity disorder exist , for instance . those argument be simply wrong , and should be destine for the dustbin of history . I urge the Minister to set out the further progress that have be make on early identification . the pilot be good and some school be do great work , but what we need in a universal education service be universal early identification of neurodivergent condition , and the support that come with that . I welcome the fact that the Minister recently say that there be no rationing of education , health and care plan . that be important because some people worry that , because ehcp be expensive to deliver , there be somehow an attempt to limit who get they . the challenge , however , be that they be not fairly and evenly available . because some parent can afford to pay for a formal diagnostic test for dyslexia , there be a social inequality in who get access . hence we need universal screening — not necessarily universal formal diagnosis , which be a more expensive process , but universal screening — so that we know who be more likely to be neurodivergent , and then the plan can be more properly and more fairly targeted . there be now prove , cost - effective early year intervention that we know work . they do not take up much time , and the time they do take up be more than well spend in be able to target well support . they be available online , and this need to become a universal standard across primary school in England . one of the reason why this subject be so important be what happen when thing go wrong . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) that we need to support neurodivergent child because of their ability to succeed . we know , for instance , that about half of successful entrepreneur be dyslexic . we know that there be skill that dyslexic people tend to have in more abundance than straight - line thinker , such as creativity , and we can understand why , because if someone have have to spend their whole childhood work out how to get around the fact that they be dyslexic , that will develop those part of the brain that enhance creativity . however , we should not just be panglossian ; there be a dark side to this . in our society , neurodivergent individual have for far too long be let down , and we have a school - to - prison pipeline , much of which be due to the lack of early identification . for instance , statistic for 2016 - 17 — I would be interested to know if the Minister have an update — show that child identify with special educational need account for 46 . 7 % of all permanent exclusion , despite make up under 15 % of the school population , so almost half of those who be exclude from school be identify as have special educational need . the right hon . Gentleman make a powerful point about school exclusion . I should not have be shock because the statistic be all out there for we to see , but last year when I visit Feltham young offender institution , just down the road from my constituency , I be tell that the vast majority of young man in that institution have special educational need and have be exclude from school . he be powerfully make the point that , if we do not invest early , we be store up huge social and economic cost for ourselves . that be absolutely right , and this issue unite colleague from across the House . the Bill I will bring forward next month have cross - party support , and I urge the hon . member to add her name to it . it have support from my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) all the way through to the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , and it be not often that they sign the same piece of paper . if she will add her name to it , that would create a triangle of support across this House , which I would really welcome . as the hon . Member say — in fact , she anticipate my very next point — the Ministry of Justice report that 42 % of incarcerated individual have experience exclusion from school , and we know that just over half of those in the male prison population have a primary school reading age . address neurodiversity , identify it early , ensure there be the right support , and therefore reduce illiteracy and get in support for the behavioural consequence of neurodivergent condition will lead to few people in prison . it will also make sure that those who end up in prison , have be miss by the education system , get this support , and that will help to reduce reoffende . I be glad to say that the Lord Chancellor be on this and be make progress , and the Health Secretary make a huge amount of progress when she be prison Minister , but there be much more to do . here be one concrete example of a new policy that I would propose , which I put to the Minister . the Ministry of Justice be currently roll out digital profile of prisoner , outline their screening datum and educational enrolment that be assess on entry to prison , and ensure that that datum follow prisoner as they move from prison to prison . it be a very good initiative that be start under the previous Lord Chancellor and be be roll out now . however , in the school system there be no automate datum flow from primary to secondary school . often , there be assessment early in secondary school , and that be good , but if there be screen datum or an assessment of individual child need , there be no automated way for such datum , with the richness of the datum that can now be available , to be pass through to secondary school . essentially , each child start from a blank canvas , and it all have to be reassess . we need an accurate assessment of where a child be up to at the start of secondary school , but understand their history as well would be valuable , so I ask the Minister to look at what the MOJ have do on datum transfer — in its case , normally from initial prison to the long - stay prison — for use in the transition from primary to secondary school . it strike I that my right hon . friend ' s suggestion about passporte information from primary have much wide application . something I have often observe in my work on the Education Committee be that there be problem when , for instance , primary school build up a pupil ' s ability in one language and then the pupil transfer to a secondary school that teach a completely different one . some form of passporting of datum from primary to secondary through a pupil passport , not only for special educational need but for learning , would be extremely useful in manage such transition . yes , I be absolutely certain that this approach to datum be more widely applicable . my focus be on this specific area , but there be now a richness of datum on individual child that simply be not available 10 year ago or even five year ago , and I think that such passporting of datum would be invaluable . I agree with everything the Chair of the Select Committee say on the question of funding , so I will not repeat it . he have be the leader of the f40 campaign for many year . Suffolk be underfunde , as be Worcestershire , so I put in my plug , but I do not need to add any more detail . the Minister know they for sure . I will close by say that I appreciate the engagement the Minister have show on this subject , and I look forward to meet he in private in the next couple of week to continue this discussion . however , I would urge he to support early identification not just as a matter of social justice , not just as a matter of progress for each individual child and not just to ensure that each child can reach their potential , but , since this be an estimate day debate , because we will then spend taxpayer ' money on education more wisely and we will get well educational outcome as a result . I would like to publicly congratulate Gen Kitchen on her fine maiden speech . well do . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) . I agree with an awful lot of what he say , particularly his point about early diagnosis and not be afraid to attach a label to thing , because that equip parent and teacher to support a child appropriately . even if that do not necessarily mean additional funding be need , it be about make sure that we all have the right tool in our armoury to support a child . I congratulate the new hon . member for Wellingborough ( Gen Kitchen ) on her maiden speech , and I look forward to see she around — I hope for many more month and year to come . I also congratulate the Chair of the Education Committee , the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , on secure this important debate . I be very happy to sponsor his application for it , give the desperation and exasperation feel by so many parent of child with special educational need and disability up and down the country . as he say , we hear from member from both side of the House in January in a well - attend debate secure by the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) . they tell harrowing story that they learn of from their constituency casework , and in some case from personal family experience . sadly , his plea for more immediate support in the Budget fall on deaf ear , although the long - term commitment to build a few more special school be welcome , and I will say a little more about that later . the insufficient funding for SEND have a visceral impact on vulnerable child and their family , but it be also one of the most pressing financial issue face local authority around the country , many of which be on the brink of bankruptcy . I shall focus my remark on that issue , rather than repeat point that I make in the debate in January . since March 2021 , the Department for Education have make safety - valve agreement with the 34 local authority with the high dedicated school grant deficit , and a further five be in the pipeline . the Department be work with an additional 55 local authority through its " deliver well value in SEND " programme , so we be not far off have 100 local authority already engage with the DFE because they be struggle with funding for SEND . that number will continue to rise because , as have repeatedly be say in the House , the available SEND funding simply do not match the need . ultimately , many of these programme be stick - plaster solution that will not address the long - term underlying challenge , because local authority be already predict and model significant deficit in year to come , beyond the lifespan of some of these agreement . it be worry that so many local authority be already involve in these mechanism , but more worrying still be the number of local authority use the statutory override . introduce in 2020 , the override allow local authority to exclude any deficit in their dedicated school grant spending from their main revenue budget . in effect , it allow local authority to proceed with an imbalanced budget without require a section 114 notice . that provision have be due to expire in March 2023 but have be extend for a further three year and will end in March 2026 , yet there seem little prospect of local authority be able to manage these deficit down in such a short space of time without a great deal more Government support . be we just wait for a deluge of section 114 notice when the statutory override expire ? the Select Committee on Levelling up , Housing and Communities certainly seem to think so . in its recent " financial distress in local authority " report , it conclude : " the Government ' s use of the statutory override and one - off ' safety valve ' funding be temporary measure and do not address the underlie mismatch between demand , cost , and annual Dedicated Schools Grant funding " . it add : " the sector face a cliff - edge of section 114 notice . " there be no information on what will happen when the statutory override conclude . a cynic might suggest that this Conservative Government , who be clearly on their last leg , be happy to kick this thorny issue into the long grass for the next Administration to grapple with . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s answer to this problem , which be already keep many council leader awake at night , even if he hope that this will be somebody else ' s problem . as for those local authority that be in safety - valve agreement , be the Government keep their side of the bargain ? I have speak before about the lack of SEND school place and the cost that can lead to ; for example , child may be place in private equity - back school that charge exorbitant fee and rip off taxpayer , and there be also the additional cost of transport SEND child outside the local area . it behove the Government to set up new SEND school and create new place , and although the Government have promise 15 special school in their Budget , as we have hear , their track record on delivery be poor . as the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Worcester , point out , it be an open question whether the funding announce will allow the promise to be meet . we be tell that we can expect these school to open in three to four year . frankly , I will believe it when I see it , because just last week it be report that building work on 33 new special school that will particularly help child with autism be seriously delay , despite the expectation that they would be up and run by 2026 . the response from the Department for Education be that it never set that target date . council be try to take matter into their own hand , but the Government approve few than half of the 85 application from council to open SEND free school in 2022 . local authority try to meet the requirement of their safety - valve agreement will be significantly hinder if the new SEND place promise by the Government be not forthcoming . the day - to - day impact that the delay will have on mainstream school must not be underestimate . I hold a termly call with all the chair of school governing body in my constituency . my discussion with those governor and with local headteacher regularly feature SEND , as I be sure the Minister can imagine , and in particular the massive impact on staff , other pupil and school budget of ensure that child with high need who be wait for an EHCP or desperately search for a special school place be adequately support . one local school tell I of teach assistant be bite , and quit as a result . when that happen , it exacerbate the workforce challenge that many of our school face . the school be concern about how to keep other pupil safe , and be spend a large amount of money try to support a child who clearly should not have be in a mainstream school . the mainstream school can not claw that money back once the child finally get an EHCP and a special school place . these delay be exacerbate by a desperate shortage of educational psychologist and speech and language therapist . I agree with the comment about make sure that we have those people in place to support the early identification that have be talk about ; these professional be integral to the system . we must address the chronic shortage of speech and language therapist and educational psychologist if we be to provide any sort of timely assessment . scandalously , one school in my constituency say that it have the budget that it want to spend on speech and language therapy , but it have to hand the money back because it could not find anyone to deliver the support , and it be a " use it or lose it at the end of the financial year " budget . I come to the final issue that I want to raise . I hear about this just last week from a Shropshire councillor , and it strike I as a real anomaly , and waste in the system that Ministers could easily address without spend more money . I be tell that a statement of special need issue in one nation of the UK can not be passporte to another . if a child with an EHCP in England move across the border to Wales , that EHCP be not recognise , and vice versa , and the parent have to join a waiting list and start the process again from scratch . the situation be the same in Scotland . that will also have an impact on child come into England . they be be reassess for ehcp , as the statement they receive in Scotland or Wales be not recognise . at a time when resource be be stretch to breaking point , this lack of passporting be surely nonsense . the help and support that a child require in one nation of the UK be surely the same in the next . I hope the Minister will take this issue away and seek to resolve it . as always seem to be the case with SEND , it be the child and their family who suffer the most . they wait forever to get the help and support that they need , and family often have to fight hard for their child ' s right . I be afraid that the Government be let down child with special educational need and disability . I hope that even if minister choose to ignore those on the Opposition Benches , they will listen to Back Benchers from their party , give that so many conservative Members choose to sign a letter to the Chancellor ask for more SEND funding . we all know the statistic , and know that there have be a huge increase in the number of child with special educational need . I recognise that present enormous challenge for national and local government , but although those statistic be important , we must never forget that behind every statistic be a child who be directly affect — a child who , like every other , deserve the very good start in life , because every child , no matter their background or need , can achieve great thing . it be a great pleasure to speak in the debate . first , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Wellingborough ( Gen Kitchen ) . it be always good to make a maiden speech about special educational need ; I do so as well , and SEND be a critically important issue . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , who give an incredibly long speech , but it be not unenjoyable . I be dyspraxic and dyslexic , and my attention be not great , so I often get bore easily , but the content be really good . he cover virtually everything there be to say in an incredibly comprehensive way . in fact , the Chairman of the Education Committee cover point that I be look to make that I think would be innovative , because he be so on the ball . I be on the Committee for a couple of year , and it be a shame that I never serve under he . I leave before he become Chairman , and I support he in become Chairman . I learn a lot today about the work he have be do . it make I happy to see he give so much priority to special educational need , which he have such knowledge of and be so well verse in . that be good news and great to hear . I have support my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) in his work on early diagnosis . I have tell this story so many time , and I be sorry if I be a bit like a broken record , but when I be 12 , I have the reading and writing age of an eight - year - old . I could not do my shoelace until I be 14 . frankly , it be only when I be diagnose with dyslexia and dyspraxia that thing start to change in a positive way for I , so diagnosis make a huge difference . some people say that sometimes it can go a bit far , or that sometimes there be a bit of an obsession with people feel like they need to be label . that might be an issue , perhaps in a minority of case , but in the vast majority of case , people need and deserve to know what they have get if they be neurodivergent , because then other people can well understand they , and they can well understand themselves . thing that may have be real challenge can , over time , in the course of their life , become asset . certainly if somebody turn up today and say , " Tom , I can wave this magic wand and you will no long have dyspraxia and dyslexia , " I would say , " Don ' t wave it , because I want to have dyslexia and dyspraxia . " it present I with a number of challenge . some people try to say that I use it as an excuse when I should be a bit more on top of thing . two week ago , I leave my phone in the back of a cab and lose it . last night , I leave my rucksack in the back of somebody ' s car . I have only just get it back ; that be why there have be lot of activity here , and message be pass . I will not blame my forgetfulness on my dyspraxia , but it might have something to do with it . my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) — I think that be right ; I have not have a phone to check his constituency online . I have to get advice from colleague about the name of his constituency . [ interruption . ] he be here ! you have just miss my excuse for not know it . [ interruption . ] I will speak through the Chair from now on , sorry . I be pleased to sign his letter , because I know there be significant funding issue . I sit and watch the Budget , and I welcome the additional funding , but do I honestly feel that it be the game - change moment we need on SEND funding ? the answer be no . pretty much everyone see special educational need as be a very important issue , but it be not that . it be a critical issue . it be one of the most important issue , and it link in with so many other thing . we need to see the big picture of how get SEND right relate to tackle crime , how it link to entrepreneurialism , and how it help we to deal with provide mental health service . these connection and link must be see if we be to truly understand how important SEND be . it can not be see in isolation . my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk know that in Suffolk , we sadly have have a fail SEND system . I have get to a stage , particularly over the past year , where 50 % to 60 % of my surgery appointment be with parent fight to get the support that their child need . More than 50 % of my surgery appointment be about SEND , and probably about 20 % be about mental health . for some of those individual , or individual whose loved one be struggle , often cripple by mental health problem , that be not disconnect from the fact that they have not get the support they need , because they be neurodivergent . early this week , I meet the Norfolk and Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust , whose mental health service have be in special measure for a long time . we hear some tragic story from campaigner whose loved one be no long with we because they be fail . I remember hear from one lady in particular . she be not a constituent , but she explain to I how her son , who be no long with we , have dyspraxia , dyslexia and autism , and the profound impact of not get the support . when you be not understand , or you feel like you be not understand — sometimes not even understand yourself fully , or the world around you — that can breed deep upset and anguish . the two thing be link . since 2019 , we have have two new special school in Ipswich : the Sir Bobby Robson School and the Woodbridge Road Academy . each provide up to around 50 place . I remember speak to the head teacher of the Sir Bobby Robson School , and already it have take a few more pupil than it plan . there just be not enough place , even with those two new special school . it be great for those who get in — it have be transformative and turn some of their life around — but for every young person who get a place , there be a number who can not . part of SEND need to be about the mainstream . ehcp be not appropriate for everyone , so we have to get that support in the mainstream , too . we need more SEND specialist , but we also need to have general teacher have a much high knowledge of all different type of neurodiversity . that be one thing I want to probe with the Minister at some point , because the SEND review make a commitment to a high amount of initial teacher training . when I visit school in my constituency , I make a point of try to find newly qualified teacher , and I always ask they , " how much of your teacher training be about SEND ? " , and the consensus be that hardly any of it be . I need to see evidence that since that commitment from the Government , thing be change in practice . for exist teacher — those who have perhaps be teacher for many decade — we must put in place resource to ensure they get the knowledge they need , because there be not a teacher I have meet who be not passionate about want to do more to support SEND ; they just need the knowledge and support to get to that place . when I be on the Education Committee , one link we discuss be 40 % or 50 % of those in prison be neurodivergent to some extent . they feel like the system have fail they . they feel alienated from the system , and then they turn against it , and to a certain extent that be understandable . one good thing that be do be by my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) when he be a Justice Minister — he be now an Education Minister — and he commit to put a neurodiversity manager in each prison . before then , there be only enough neurodiversity manager to cover four prison . that be a good change . ultimately , we have get to get to that game - change moment on funding . there be many thing that Suffolk County Council could and should have do well on SEND , but I have sympathy that in Suffolk we be particularly badly fund . we have meet the Minister about that , and we understand that that gap be apparently narrow , but how be it defensible for I to have to explain to parent in my constituency why their child who be neurodivergent be worth less than child who be neurodivergent not just in London — we have become used to that kind of disparity — but in Norfolk and Essex ? it be extraordinary , and I can not defend that . I do not want people in those area who be neurodivergent to get any less investment — I want they to get all the investment in the world — but I want young people in Ipswich and Suffolk who be neurodivergent to get that support as well . why do this matter ? I raise this in an intervention early . because this be a debate about the Budget , I will not just make the argument about why invest in SEND be morally the right thing to do . even take the bean - counter ' s approach — the Treasury view — that game - change moment in funding for SEND be good for the taxpayer , because it unleash the talent and ability of so many people who think differently . I be in the process of set up the all - party parliamentary group for neurodiversity in defence and national security because the soldier - first principle be difficult for many neurodiverse people who think differently , but we really need they when it come to cyber . this might surprise people , but I briefly flirt with join the Royal Navy as an officer . I go to the open day where six of we get together and it be like , " here ' s a barrel . you ' ve get to tie load of knot and get it over these imaginary shark - infest water to the island . " at that time — I think I be probably 25 — I feel like I be 11 or 12 again . I feel thick again . I feel that people be look at I like I be stupid . we have get to do this . I serve on the Education Committee with the Minister , who I know be in this place because of his passion for education , and I know that he get SEND . I want to help he to make the case for why invest in SEND be of monumental importance and game - change . it be an enormous pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) and his typically powerful and forthright speech . I also commend my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) for secure the debate and , of course , the hon . member for Wellingborough ( Gen Kitchen ) for her maiden speech . a massive " well do " to she — it be not an easy thing to do . I have be a pretty robust champion for SEND for some time and have speak on it at length in the House , so I do not want to detain hon . member for too long , but there be some important point that I wish to raise , particularly with the Minister . the backdrop for SEND across the UK be get ever well . in March last year , the Government publish their SEND and alternative provision improvement plan . why be that important ? because it commit to a huge increase in funding for education across the UK , and for SEND in particular , with investment increase by more than 60 % from 2019 - 20 to more than £ 10 . 5 billion a year by 2024 - 25 . that be a huge increase in money , and we know beyond doubt that this be the high funding ever for education in the UK . I be also pleased that , as part of that plan , there be a new leadership - level SENCO NVQ , which be an important professional qualification . we have also get expand training for staff range from up to 5 , 000 early year educational need co - ordinator to 400 educational psychologist . excitingly , in Bracknell Forest , a proposal be be moot in conjunction with Bracknell and Wokingham College for a pilot to be run for recruiting and train additional teaching assistant , and particularly those who may be focus on special educational need . as the Minister know , last year ' s review identify three key challenge . first , navigate the SEND system and alternative provision be not a positive experience for family . indeed , the EHCP process be too long , too convoluted and too difficult — it require a degree to fill it out and submit it . secondly , outcome for child and young people with SEND be consistently bad than their peer ' across every measure , as my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich just mention . thirdly , despite the continue and unprecedented investment , the system be not financially sustainable and insufficient place be available for those need specialist provision . what do we need to do ? give that I try to focus nationally as well as locally , I think that first we need to well operationalise the process . we know that the money be available and the policy be in place , but it be not be translate right now to improvement locally . I be work locally with Bracknell Forest Council to do that . additional staff be be recruit and response time be improve for those who contact the Department , but these improvement need to happen much more broadly across the DFE ' s area . while the detail remain confidential — that be a safety valve — I be support Bracknell Forest Council in its endeavour and be meet here in Westminster with Ministers to ensure the good possible deal for councillor and official at the council . I be grateful to the Government for their ongoing co - operation and investment , which be pivotal . however , to well operationalise the provision , we need the right setting for all our child , and sufficient place . even with the increase funding , we need to build additional school — and that be now , not in five year ' time . last year , I be pleased to play my part in secure funding for the new SEND school in Crowthorne in my constituency , which be one of the 60 new school announce last year . Bracknell Forest Council assure I that it be ready right now to scope and build the school , so can we please have the money right now , not in five year ? why stop there ? we need to be ambitious nationally and locally . we could also invest locally in a third school . an obvious site in Bracknell be the Warfield site , which I have raise with the council before . I encourage the council in Bracknell to be more ambitious and go for it . let we not just go for a second SEND school ; let we go for a third as well . we need to do the same thing across the UK : identify setting where school can be build and make the money available now , because these setting be non - discretionary . before I finish , I will raise two point . first , I have a particular issue with Labour ' s policy on vat for private school . aside from the huge impact on parent who choose — it be about choice — to educate their kid privately for good reason , that policy would have an adverse effect on service family and those with child with special need . we must be careful what we wish for . lastly , while I absolutely welcome the huge progress be make on SEND right across the UK , it do need operationalise both locally and nationally . it be about result and outcome , not policy and money . I urge the Minister please to wave his magic wand on this one . we come to the wind - up . I thank the Chair of the Education Committee , the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , for secure this important debate and commend he for the work he do as the Select Committee ' s Chair . I also pay tribute to those who work with and support child with special educational need and disability . across the country , teacher , teaching assistant , support staff , speech and language therapist , occupational therapist , mental health professional and many more work tirelessly every day to ensure that child with SEND have the good possible education . I be grateful to hon . member who have contribute to the debate , but I must pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Wellingborough ( Gen Kitchen ) . it really be to her credit that she have choose this debate to make her maiden speech and to be that powerful voice for some of the most vulnerable child and most challenge family in her community . she be clearly a powerful advocate for her community . if they vote she back in at the general election , they will also hopefully have a Labour Government with whom she can work to truly deliver on her " visit Wellingborough " campaign . since the passage of the Children and Families Act 2014 , the number of request for EHC plan have rise year on year , double between 2016 and 2022 . there be a further 7 % rise in 2022 when 66 , 706 new plan be issue . almost 400 , 000 school pupil be now support through an EHC plan , while a further 1 . 2 million child be receive support without a plan . however , it be clear from today ' s debate that the support system for child with SEND be fail too many child and their family . parent and carer be be force into expensive and lengthy battle to access the support they need throughout their child ' s time in school . in 2022 , more than half of EHC plan be issue after the 20 - week target . increasingly , family be turn to the tribunal process — with a 24 % increase in case last year — to secure a plan or appeal the detail of their child ' s plan . an overwhelming 98 % of case be win by parent and carer last year . that process be not only drain for family but expensive for the taxpayer . research by the disabled Children ' s Partnership find that lose case cost council and court £ 60 million in 2021 - 22 . we must not forget the family who do not even make it to the tribunal , and whose child ' s need be leave unmet . these unacceptable delay be heartbreaking for family , who face year of stress and anxiety while their child be unable to access the education to which they be entitle . More than a third of child with SEND be persistently absent from school in the autumn and spring term last year . although some of that absence be relate to the need for medical appointment , much be due to the lack of tailor provision for a child ' s need . child with SEND have one of the large attainment gap compare with their peer . a child with an EHCP be on average 28 month behind their peer at the end of primary school . the gap only grow throughout school , to a staggering 3 . 5 year — 40 month — by the time they leave . we only get one childhood , and delay support will embed lifelong inequality and create barrier to the opportunity that child can pursue later in life . the crisis in SEND support be have a devastating impact on local authority finance , as hon . member have touch on . increase number of council be issue section 114 notice , effectively declare bankruptcy , with many cite the impact of increase SEND and home - to - school transport cost as reason . no council take this lightly , and councillor and officer across the country work really hard to balance the book . I be sure that the Minister may want to blame specific council for the issue , but the sheer number of local authority on the brink — with administration of all political party — can not be dismiss . reform the SEND system be vital not only for child and family but to ensure that the wide local government service across the country be sustainable . issue a section 114 notice have grave implication for the delivery of all local government service , and it be often child who suffer most from the result cut . the Government ' s SEND and alternative provision review should have be the opportunity to set out an ambitious plan for reform to ensure the good outcome for child with SEND , well relationship with family , and a sustainable system for school and local authority . yet after a four - year wait , the plan be meet with widespread disappointment with its limited scope . many measure will not come into effect until 2025 — six year after the review be announce . in that time , 300 , 000 child with SEND will have leave school . the funding for 15 new special school in last week ' s Budget be welcome , but the school will provide additional place for just 2 , 000 child and there be no clear timeline for when they will open to student . I hope that the Minister will update the House on the other 33 new special school announce alongside the SEND and alternative provision improvement plan . More than a year on from the publication of the plan , the Department have yet to publish the detail of approved academy trust , and that be delay the start of construction . when do the Minister expect those school to open for student ? it be also disappointing that the Budget have little to say more widely on support for child with SEND , the majority of whom will continue to be educate in the mainstream sector . the Opposition be commit to break down the barrier face by child with SEND . we believe in high and rise standard for every child . we know that there be child with additional need in every classroom in every school but , as have be highlight by member on the Government Benches , the Government do not equip every teacher with the knowledge and skill they need to teach they . labour would look at every aspect of teacher training — undergraduate curriculum , early career framework and career change route — and we will introduce an entitlement to annual continue professional development , which we would expect to be use in many instance to boost SEND expertise . as part of Labour ' s plan reform to ofsted inspection , move away from the use of single - word judgment will ensure that school be inspect on their inclusivity and that parent of child with SEND have access to clear information about their child ' s school . child increasingly start school without the foundational language and communication skill that they need to take part in their education . we be committed to improve speech and language support , and will equip every school with funding to deliver evidence - base early language intervention , such as Nuffield early language intervention . More than 280 , 000 child receive SEND support last year for their social , emotional and mental health , while many child with mental ill health be out of school entirely . the need for mental health support have soar in recent year . alongside urgent action to address the unacceptably high waiting time for CAMHS support , we will embed professional mental health support in every school and deliver open access youth mental health hub in every community . we will build a modern early education and childcare system that work for the family of disabled child . the early identification of need be vital to provide the intervention in the most important year of a child ' s development . last year , Coram find that just 18 % of local authority have sufficient place for disabled child . will the Minister confirm that there will be sufficient place for disabled child ahead of the expansion of entitlement in April ? child and family deserve much well than government stick plaster solution . we will work with parent , carer , school and local authority to rebuild the support that child with SEND rely on , and deliver the change need to ensure that every child can thrive in school . for 14 year , the Government have fail child and family . as we have always do in government , Labour will put child first again . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) for open this important debate . I know how important it be to he that our investment in education give child and young people the very good start in life , and his work on these issue both as Chair of the Education Committee and as an excellent former Schools Minister be well recognise across the House . I , too , pay tribute to all the staff and parent do all they can to support child with special educational need . before I turn to the substance of the debate , may I say what an excellent maiden speech the hon . member for Wellingborough ( Gen Kitchen ) give ? it be nice to see someone else from the charity sector join the House . her speech be a great advert for visit Wellingborough , and specifically her office , where she seem to keep all of its good product . she say that she would like to make her family proud , but I have no doubt that she have already do that and will continue to do so a great deal more in the come year . this government be make record investment in education , with total school revenue funding reach over £ 60 . 7 billion this coming year . that be the high level in real term per pupil in history . as my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) say — a great champion for child with special educational need — within the total funding amount , high need funding be increase to more than £ 10 . 5 billion in the come financial year , which be an increase of over 60 % compare with 2019 - 20 . the Department be also make a transformational investment in capital funding . we have publish over £ 1 . 5 billion of high need provision capital allocation for the 2022 - 23 and 2023 - 24 financial year to support local authority to deliver new place and improve exist provision for child and young people with SEND or who require alternative provision . I thank my hon . friend for give way so early in his speech . I be grateful that there will be two special school in Norfolk , include one in west Norfolk , but at the moment Norfolk County Council spend £ 40 million a year move child with special need to special school rather than on their education itself . will he look at the urgent funding need for county like Norfolk that face those very high cost ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . the amount be spend on transport rather than provision be too high . the solution be both to create more provision and to meet child ' s need in mainstream school at an early enough stage wherever possible , though that be not always possible . the investment be on top of our ongoing delivery of new special and alternative provision for free school . currently , 108 special free school be open , with a further 77 approve to open in future . last week , we announce funding for an additional wave of 15 special free school . my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ask some question about that investment . I can confirm that it be intend to provide 30 , 000 additional specialist place and that we remain on course to deliver that . I can also confirm that we will still be spend £ 2 . 6 billion in this area . despite our investment in education funding , it be right to acknowledge that the SEND and alternative provision system continue to face challenge . the SEND and alternative provision improvement plan , which we publish in March 2023 , seek to move we to a national system where every child get the right support in the right place at the right time . we have already begin the process of test our reform . in September last year , we launch the SEND and AP change programme , which be deliver some of the thing we talk about in the plan , include standardise and digitise the EHCP process , test advisory tailor list , and strengthen mediation . on financial pressure , as have be touch on , the Department for Education have two main programme — the safety valve programme and the deliver well value programme — to support and stabilise local authority expenditure . the programme be design to improve SEND service by help local authority to make the very good use of their resource . the local authority with the high percentage deficit be invite to join the safety valve programme , and there be now 34 local authority with safety valve agreement . by March 2025 , the Department will have allocate nearly £ 900 million through the programme to help local authority to eliminate their historic deficit while continue to deliver high - quality provision . local authority with substantial but less severe deficit have be invite to join the deliver well value programme — an £ 85 million programme launch in 2022 that help select authority to structure and deliver their SEND service so young people get the support they need at the right time . the authority work out the cause of their challenge and develop action plan . they be give £ 1 million to support the implementation of the plan . we have publish some of the learning and insight from the programme so far , and will continue to find and share example of good practice in local area . that is , in part , to address the question from my hon . friend the Member for Worcester , the Chair of the Education Committee , about help local authority to plan appropriately . turn to other area of funding to support child with special educational need , we be invest £ 21 million to train 400 more educational psychologist by September 2024 . we be invest £ 18 million between 2022 and 2025 to double the capacity of our support internship programme . we have a new programme call pin — partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity — which be a £ 13 million investment that will deploy specialist from both health and education workforce to train more than 1 , 600 mainstream primary school to well meet the need of child with autism and other neurodiverse need . there be plenty more I can say , but I want to address some of the question raise . as my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) say , we know that effective early intervention can reduce the impact that a special educational need or disability may have . I commend he on his continued campaigning in that area . on childcare , we be work with every local authority to ensure they have the place available for all child , as part of our childcare roll - out . my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ask I to review the correspondence relate to the location of Fort Royal . I give he that commitment . my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ask I to look at what the Ministry of Justice have do on passporte information ; I will do that . on exclusion , we do not recognise the figure he quote , but the proportion of child with special educational need within the exclusion figure have be fall — although it be still too high . the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) ask about EHCP passporte between home nation . we would expect English local authority to accept the evidence they have be give , but I will discuss that far with the team . my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) have be a consistent champion for child with special educational need since we arrive here and serve together on the Education Committee . we recently review the framework for teacher training and there be now significantly more content on support child with special educational need , but I be very happy to have a further discussion with he separately . I be pleased to hear that . I would be interested to sit down with the Minister and the Chair of the Select Committee to interrogate and understand that in more detail . I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend on that point . there be then the question of what the Labour party would do differently . I do not hear anything that the Labour party would do differently . the only thing we know that it would do differently be to charge family with a child at a special school have their special need meet an additional 20 % on the cost of that place . it can often be a huge struggle for family to meet the cost of a place in the first place , yet Labour will add 20 % to that on the spurious ground that otherwise — and I quote — " any school could claim it ' s a special school . " that seem to I a particularly poor way of make education policy , not that there be much of it from the Labour party . I wonder how many Labour mp , when they sit with constituent in their surgery , tell those parent that they will hike their fee by 20 % . I suspect not many , but every parent in the country deserve to know that . do the Minister agree that this be ultimately about choice ? it should be about parent have a choice about where they send their child to school , without be fiscally penalise for do so . do he also agree that impose vat on school fee will massively overload the state school system , because of the number of parent who may not be able to afford to send their kid to private school and who will therefore send they to state school ? do he agree that that policy be complete nonsense ? my hon . friend make some important point . the honest truth be that I just do not think the Labour party think it through . I think they think it be ideology that would please a particular wing of the party , but they do not think through the fact that it would hammer family with a child in a special school , try to get their need meet , with an additional 20 % . we will see what those family think about that policy . I thank the Minister for give way , because I actually support quite a lot of what he be say on this issue . just in the last couple of week , I have come across two or three family that have child with low level of additional need that do not warrant an EHCP who have go into state mainstream school and really struggle . those family tell I that they scrimp and save to get their child well support in a mainstream , but small and more nurturing , private school . in one case , a mother have inherit a little bit of money from a parent that she be then able to invest . she say to I that so many child will not have that opportunity . we should not penalise parent who want to make that choice to support their child with special need . that be why the Liberal Democrats will also oppose put vat on private school fee . it be not often I say this , but I entirely agree with the hon . Lady , and I hope we can work together . the Labour party believe in the myth that everyone who put their child into these school be wealthy and can afford the 20 % increase , but , as the hon . Lady say , often people be just try to get the right support for their child . whether they can secure an EHCP be not within their control — all sort of factor be involve — and it be completely unacceptable to hammer those family with another 20 % on the cost of try to meet their child ' s need . at the risk of focus on an issue that be a distraction , let I emphasise that we need to invest in special educational need provision in mainstream school , for all the reason that have be advance today , include in the necessary teacher training . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have conclude that this policy would bring in £ 1 . 3 billion to provide the 93 % of child in the state sector who be currently be fail by the Government with the support that they need . I agree that it be a distraction . this policy be a distraction from Labour ' s have no plan for any area of education — school , apprenticeship , university or childcare . it be a distraction , and Labour have not think through the consequence of it . our investment in special educational need be a key part of the Government ' s mission to set all child and young people up for success . I be proud that the Government be provide record level of investment , and I look forward to continue to work with member as we strive to make the special educational need system the very good that it can be . I commend this estimate to the House . we have have an excellent debate . we have hear from member in all part of the House about the importance of continue to increase investment in special educational need across both capital and revenue . I warmly congratulate the hon . member for Wellingborough ( Gen Kitchen ) on a fantastic maiden speech . I be very impressed to hear about her ancestor who be a chaplain in the great war . we have a famous one in Worcester , Woodbine Willie , who go on to become a great christian socialist . I be sure that the hon . Lady will make a big contribution on education issue , and I invite she to join we on the Education Committee , where I hope she will be able to contribute far . we have hear brilliant speech from member on both side of the House , and although I do not have enough time to talk about all of they , I congratulate they on the case that they have make for their constituent . I recognise that the Minister have do some very important work and that and he take the issue seriously . I say to he , " keep it up , and help we to help you make the case to the Treasury to ensure that these estimate continue to increase . " question defer ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . Home Office Asylum and Migration Motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Home Office : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 5 , 302 , 799 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 500 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 578 , 474 , 000 , be authorise for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 3 , 400 , 000 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) I must announce that Mr Speaker have select the amendment in the name of Alison Thewliss . I will call Alison Thewliss during the debate to move the amendment . I now call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . let I start by thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate . I think we can all agree that it be an important and vital job for Parliament to scrutinise Government spending in general , and in this particular case the Home Office budget for the purpose of asylum and migration — an issue that I know every Member of the House care about , and one that the public be rightly concerned about as well . over the past five year , the Home Office ' s asylum support , resettlement and accommodation budget have increase by 733 % , which represent a quarter of the Department ' s total expenditure . it be , of course , the Home Office ' s responsibility to enable scrutiny to take place with the timely provision of clear and transparent information , but the Home Affairs Committee have be repeatedly hamstring by its refusal to disclose key detail of its spending plan and commitment . we have have to ask for information repeatedly , and on several occasion we have work with the Public Accounts Committee to obtain financial detail which I believe should have be readily available to we . as the House will know , the term of reference for the Home Affairs Committee be to examine " the expenditure , administration , and policy of the Home Office and its associated public body . " we do that , of course , on behalf of the House of Commons as a whole . minister should not need to be remind that parliamentary scrutiny be not a disposable luxury . the Home Office say that it welcome scrutiny , but unfortunately we have not find that to be the reality . I would argue that scrutiny be a basic necessity to ensure that public money be spend well , appropriately and wisely , but time and again our demand for financial transparency have be rebuff by the Department , keep Parliament and therefore the public in the dark about how it be spend billion of pound of taxpayer ' money . member of the House have therefore not be able to ask crucial question about spend plan until long after the money have leave the Government coffer . today ' s debate will shine a light on the position of the Home Office , and highlight the urgent need for Ministers to change their approach to be scrutinise . I will set out the current position of the Home Office . it have request £ 5 . 9 billion in additional funding through the supplementary estimate — £ 4 billion for asylum , £ 1 . 2 billion for the implementation of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and the 10 - point plan , and £ 0 . 5 billion for the afghan resettlement scheme . I turn first to the Home Office ' s spend on the asylum system . in publishing and set out its plan on asylum for the year , the Department have not disclose its spending plan and commitment in a timely manner , prevent full and proper parliamentary scrutiny . what seem to have happen be that the Home Office , in agreement with the Treasury , completely omit a significant proportion of expect asylum expenditure from its main estimate . this mean that Parliament will not get to scrutinise the Department ' s spending plan until after the money have be spend . the Department be now seek retrospective approval at the supplementary estimate stage , which go against the principle of the estimate approval process . give all the sophisticated modelling that it have at its disposal , I question why the Home Office be not in a position to make available at least a notional figure to put into its budget , which would have need to increase if necessary . it be wrong that nothing be put in the budget at the start . on 1 February this year , the Home Secretary request an emergency drawdown of £ 2 . 6 billion from the reserve , because the Department have run out of money before the supplementary estimate have be approve . far , the level of detail provide on asylum spending in the supplementary estimate be inadequate . a much more detailed breakdown of the asylum budget be require to fully understand the cost driver and to hold the Department to account for the decision it be take . sadly , that be not what we have be give . expenditure on asylum have increase rapidly over the past two year . we know that level of migration have increase due to the number of small boat crossing , the war in Ukraine and the afghan resettlement scheme , and the departmental settlement in the 2021 spending review be insufficient to cope with the grow pressure . as such , the Department have make large claim on the reserve , as well as extend its use of the official development assistance budget . some pressure on the Home Office ' s budget be beyond the Department ' s immediate control , but other be not . for example , it be down to the Department to decide how it deliver accommodation for asylum seeker . the Home Affairs Committee be very concerned that the former chief inspector of border and immigration have say that the Home Office do not appear to have an asylum accommodation strategy . of course , the use of hotel accommodation be due to the backlog — or , as the Home Secretary correct I at the Home Affairs Committee , the " queue " . it be apparently not a backlog anymore , but a queue . the queue have be allow to develop because of the failure of the Home Office to invest in process asylum claim in an efficient way over a number of year . that have result in a much large bill for accommodation , which we be now have to deal with . we know that the Home Office be currently spend £ 8 million a day on accommodate asylum seeker in hotel , which amount to £ 2 . 9 billion a year . despite the Home Office spend a huge amount , it be not predominantly the Department ' s money , because the first 12 month of an asylum seeker ' s accommodation be fund through the official development assistance budget . between 2021 - 22 and 2023 - 24 , Home Office usage of the ODA budget increase by 226 % , from £ 981 million to £ 3 . 2 billion . that force the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to cease all non - essential programme , as spending be redirect domestically . the implication have be heavily criticise by the Independent Commission for Aid Impact and the International Development Committee . also , the Illegal Migration Act , if implement in full , will restrict the Home Office ' s ability to use the official development assistance budget for asylum seeker , as migrant arrive irregularly will no long be able to seek asylum . the right hon . Lady be make an important point about the use of ODA . do she agree that nothing be force the Government to spend ODA in that way ? even if the expenditure have to be count as ODA , they could make up for it in the fcdo budget . the Government have make a choice to take money away from the fcdo and spend it via the Home Office . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that this be a Government choice . do the Minister think that spend £ 3 . 2 billion on asylum accommodation in the UK be an appropriate use of the ODA budget ? what do he say about the fcdo have to cease all its non - essential programme , which could be important to ensure that people stay in their home country , rather than feel that they have to become a migrant ? do he have a plan for how the Home Office will fund asylum accommodation if it can no long take money from the ODA budget ? one of the Home Office ' s alternative approach to accommodate some asylum seeker — a maximum of around 500 at a time — be the Bibby Stockholm barge . in January 2024 , the Home Office ' s permanent secretary inform the Home Affairs Committee that it cost £ 120 a night to accommodate a man on the Bibby Stockholm , as compare with £ 140 a night in a hotel . that figure be base on full occupancy , but the barge be not fully occupy when we visit in January , and we be lead to believe that it will never reach its full capacity of 500 . we be also aware that the initial figure do not include the barge ' s set - up cost , which amount to around £ 22 million . the permanent secretary assure we that when set - up cost be include , " there be a total - life save from use of the Bibby Stockholm of £ 800 , 000 . " however , we understand that the contract for the barge be for only 18 month . can the Minister say over what period the total - life saving be calculate ? at what level of occupancy do the Bibby Stockholm cease to be value for money ? what figure have the average cost per person per night fluctuate between over the past year ? we put all these question to the permanent secretary , and I be aware that the National Audit Office be conduct a value - for - money audit of asylum accommodation , which will not be publish until 22 March . in recent oral evidence session with Ministers , the Home Affairs Committee have repeatedly ask about the finance of the Bibby Stockholm and other asylum accommodation site , but sadly with few meaningful reply . what specifically be drive the capital budget increase in asylum cost ? in the Home Office ' s proposal , the capital departmental expenditure limit budget will go up to £ 1 , 399 , 800 , 000 — an increase of £ 468 . 5 million . that be a more than 50 % increase on the initial budget of £ 931 . 3 million . be that due to the Prime Minister ' s announcement in June 2023 that two other barge have be procure , in addition to the Bibby Stockholm — there be no explicit reference to that in the estimate memorandum — or be it for the additional detention facility require under the Illegal Migration Act ? secondly , why do the cost of process an asylum claim go from £ 9 , 000 in 2019 to £ 21 , 000 in 2022 - 23 ? that be a real - term increase of 109 % . again , Home Office spending on the UK - Rwanda partnership be a familiar story . the Home Affairs Committee have finally be able to glean that large sum of money have be commit to this scheme , but largely via retrospective disclosure and an accidental leak in an International Monetary Fund board paper in Rwanda . the Committee have , once again , have to join force with the Public Accounts Committee to ask the National Audit Office to find out the costing of the scheme . I reiterate that it be very unsatisfactory that when we have be hold our normal scrutiny session with Ministers and official to try to get detail on spending and any further commitment , we have repeatedly be meet with silence from Ministers and be tell to wait until the account for the Department be publish at the end of the financial year . let we be clear : the failure to respond to our request be not because anyone behind the scene have judge the value - for - money test of this policy to be so overwhelmingly watertight that disclosure to Parliament be completely unnecessary , unsatisfactory as that would be . on the contrary , the permanent secretary require a ministerial direction in April 2022 to start implementation of the Rwanda partnership , because he judge that there be insufficient evidence of the deterrent effect that have be suggest , and therefore of the scheme being value for money . that ministerial direction have not be revoke , and it be in force today , with even more money be commit to this scheme . as the Institute for Government point out , permanent secretary have a duty to seek a ministerial direction if they think a spending proposal breach the value - for - money criterion — that is , " if something else , or do nothing , would be cheap and well " . that make it even more important that Parliament can scrutinise this scheme and have the full cost available . Less than two week ago , we learn , via the National Audit Office investigation that the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee and I have seek , that the UK Government have commit to make payment to cover asylum processing and operational cost , and an integration package , for each individual relocate to Rwanda , and that these payment can last for five year and total £ 150 , 874 per person . minister have previously indicate that the per - person payment in the Rwanda scheme would be similar to the per - person cost of processing claim in the UK . ask at the Home Affairs Committee what the UK processing cost be , the then Minister responsible for illegal migration say that it be £ 12 , 000 , although we now know that it be £ 21 , 000 . here be what else we have learn : the Home Office have commit to pay the Rwandan Government £ 370 million under the economic transformation and integration fund . it will also pay an additional £ 20 , 000 per individual relocate , and a furth £ 120 million once 300 people have be relocate . that be in addition to the £ 150 , 874 per person for asylum processing and operational cost . on top of that , we also have the direct cost incur by the Home Office in manage and oversee the scheme and transport people to Rwanda . as of February 2024 , the Home Office have incur cost of £ 20 million , which it expect to rise to £ 28 million by the end of 2023 - 24 . the Home Office estimate that it will incur further cost of approximately £ 1 million per year in staff cost and £ 11 , 000 per individual for flight cost . it would be helpful if the Minister could let the House know whether he now have an airline available to remove people to Rwanda , because that be another question to which we have not be able to get an answer . the Home Office will also incur cost to escort individual to Rwanda , include training cost of £ 12 . 6 million in 2024 - 2025 and £ 1 million per year thereafter in fix cost , plus far escort cost that be dependent on the number of flight require . that do not include the wide cost of implement the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , such as the cost of provide sufficient detention facility to hold people before they be relocate . it would be helpful if the Minister could explain what arrangement be in place for that ; that be link to my question on capital cost . will the Minister comment on whether it be a mistake not to make the full set of cost I have just list know to member of this House , especially give that member be legislate on this policy but do not have the information available on cost to make a judgment on value for money ? why do it require an investigation by the National Audit Office to get basic , factual information ? do the Minister think that the permanent secretary be wrong in his assessment that there be insufficient evidence " to demonstrate that the policy will have a deterrent effect significant enough " to justify its cost ? be the Minister also able to assist the House on the number of people who will be send to Rwanda under the Illegal Migration Act after the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill be enact ? in recent day , it have appear that the Government will offer asylum seeker whose application be unsuccessful £ 3 , 000 to relocate to Rwanda voluntarily , alongside those forcibly remove under the scheme , and that they too will be entitle to support for five year . the right hon . Lady be absolutely right : the justification that we hear time and again from those on the Government Benches for the Rwanda scheme be that it will break the business model of the people smuggler and trafficker . do she think that provide a voucher scheme for people trafficker be go to break their business model ? the right hon . Gentleman make his point very clearly . to go back to that new development that we have hear about in recent day , will the Minister be clear with the House about what offer be be make for voluntary relocation ? how many individual will be eligible for the scheme ? how much have the Home Office budget in total for support cost ? the press be report that Home Office official be call asylum seeker to ask they if they would like to be send to Rwanda . be that correct ? in conclusion , for Parliament to be able to do its job , we need a major culture change at the Home Office . call for financial information must never be treat as irritate request to be swat away ; they should be treat as part of the effective lifeblood of scrutiny and good governance . big question mark hang over Ministers ' spending decision on asylum and migration , particularly on accommodation and the UK - Rwanda partnership . if the Home Office be confident about how it plan to spend public money , it should have no problem let Parliament see the full detail in advance of how that money will be spend . if it be not confident , then it must change tack , let the light of scrutiny into the Home Office , and develop spending plan that it be willing to share with Parliament and the public . it be a pleasure to follow the thoughtful and consider remark of the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , and her forensic analysis of the funding . that funding have not be as transparent as it should have be , and I will expand on that point . I be pleased to be able to speak on the estimate for the Home Office , and to make some wide observation about expenditure . control expenditure in any Government Department have its challenge , especially when event and circumstance , largely beyond the control of any Minister or Government , land on a Government . the covid pandemic , during which I be at the Home Office , be one example of that . there have be other unforeseen event , such as the war in Ukraine , although there be some planning for that , and Operation Pitting , which be a significant cross - Government initiative ; fund for its operational cost be work out by department after the event . as a result of such event , spend profile change . I can say this because I be in the Treasury a long time ago , and people know my view on fiscal form and fiscal fitness in government : domestic event can create inflationary pressure , just as macro - global economic pressure such as the war in Ukraine can . the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee point out the inflationary pressure that be create during the pandemic , because the Government effectively have a monopoly on hotel room , which drive price up . there be no real alternative that could have be adopt , because the Government do not have a plan . I will come on to the type of plan that would not have lead to the fiscal situation in which the Home Office now find itself . during the pandemic , inevitably , public health advice relate to asylum accommodation result in the Government no long be able to detain people , and distance measure in asylum accommodation be put in place . that lead to the use of hotel and a response to the growth of illegal migration , as highlight by the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . helpful financial number provide by the House of Commons Library show an increase in the figure over the past five year . moreover , since the publication of the baseline figure of the last spending review settlement , increase have go up by 110 % , so , clearly , there be some significant challenge in this area . as the wonderful figure in the Treasury ' s supplementary estimate demonstrate , the Home Office have a wide range of responsibility , include vital work around counter - terrorism activity , keep our street safe , support the police uplift programme , and the work around violence reduction unit , which be announce by the Chancellor last week . a lot of the investment that have go into tackle domestic violence against woman and girl , and the lead that the Department have take on modern day slavery , be critical . that be now business as usual and absolutely important . the document mention the responsibility around issue visa and passport , and the income and revenue that come in from that to sustain the system . then we have control of our border , immigration and asylum matter . at the heart of these activity must be transparency . minister and budget holder must always put transparency and value for money at the forefront of their action . my mantra be very well know in every Government Department in which I serve : we must follow the money , people , activity and outcome and be fiscally responsible . as this debate have show , thank to the introductory remark from the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , we must have transparency . it be right that there be accountability and transparency around our key policy decision , but have see the figure in the supplementary estimate cover the Home Office , include more than £ 4 billion of additional funding for resource staff , asylum support and resettlement and accommodation , a number of issue have be raise , which I know the Minister will seek to address in his response . I will , if I may , mention something that have be touch on already , which be asylum accommodation . it be obvious that that be not work . serious question need to be ask of the Department in relation to ministerial direction and decision over , at least , the past 14 month . again , that go to my point about public expenditure and transparency — and I will come on to Rwanda shortly . many of the proposal link in with the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 — I know that the Chair of the Select Committee mention the Illegal Migration Act 2023 as it now be . when I be in the Home Office , we develop the new plan for immigration , which provide a clear policy on not just asylum accommodation , but reform of the entire system . that enable we to break down the ultimate cost and be quite transparent about that when plan for future accommodation need . we be work to establish greek - style reception centre and to increase detain site . we want not even to use hotel , but to have government - fund accommodation , which would have assist the Government in processing claim quickly and promptly . clearly , that be the crux of the matter , as the Chair of the Select Committee have point out , with processing claim go up by more than 100 % . serious question need to be ask . why , for example , be the digital level of processing asylum claim that would have take place in these centre not forthcoming ? why do that information not materialise ? that be only one aspect of what should have be the new plan for immigration . implement these serious measure would have lead to financial transparency and , quite frankly , accountability around public spending . it would also have have a deterrent effect on those try to enter the UK through dangerous and illegal route , reduce the pull factor by have accommodation that be about not just move from one hotel to another , but process claim in these centre and have cost - effective solution . the development of the site at Linton - on - Ouse be one example . that site should have be up and run by October 2022 and would now be in use , support the effort to tackle illegal migration by accommodate more than 1 , 500 people , address some of those wide issue that the Government at the time seek to address . there be , of course , start - up cost involve , but they be all now blend into the estimate , the supplementary estimate and the £ 4 billion of additional spending be retrospectively seek . as a result of abandon the plan , the Home Office have , again , fall behind where it should have be on establish a robust network of detention site , proper accommodation facility , proper processing plan , and transparency and digitalisation , which would have lead to fundamental reform of the asylum accommodation system . instead , this time last year , what do we have ? the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee touch on the infamous barge , Bibby Stockholm , and its set - up cost . in my district of Braintree , we have RAF Wethersfield and all the establish problem there , the additional start - up cost , and all the supplementary cost of deal with problem that be not even anticipate at the outset . some of those problem be one that I have raise , such as ill health outbreak , additional resourcing for policing , and cost that the local council have to pick up , include the county council . when those decision be make , concern be raise about the suitability of the location . it be incredibly disappointing that Ministers at the time be incredibly tin - eare about all this , and not transparent on the funding or the decision making . my local authority have to work with I to get the information out of the Home Office . as the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee will know , none of the information be readily available to the Committee , which be simply not acceptable . I be conscious that my colleague on the Front Bench be have to pick up a lot of this , because they be not Ministers in the Department at the time . it be incredibly unfair . the money in the supplementary estimate be retrospective , but there be an opportunity to be much more transparent , demonstrate that the Department have learn lesson from frankly the most appalling process and the ministerial indifference in the Home Office over the past 12 month or so , and improve the situation . that be incredibly important , particularly while we be still deal with many issue at Wethersfield , which be suppose to reach a full capacity of about 1 , 700 people . currently onsite we have around one third of that level , but we have a lot of issue , which again cost money . the Home Office will bear the brunt of that through the various local authority that be have to deal with this — Braintree District Council and Essex County Council in particular . the issue include onsite medical facility , access to primary care , mental health , reasonable accommodation , the cost of transport , and all the various associate cost . we now have an issue around class q , the special development order that have be issue , and what that mean for the long - term cost to the Department and for run the site . again , nothing have be publish , leave my Braintree resident in the dark , along with Parliament , frankly , on the wide cost implication . the cost associate with illegal migration be clearly staggering , as have be expose . this may speak to the recent publication of a report by the former chief inspector of border and immigration , David Neal . other report , which the Department not only commission but seek to publish , would have lead to a much more robust approach around Border Force , agreement with France , and how the Home Office conduct its business . they could have lead to some serious reform , good prudent fiscal management , and importantly , proper investment in technology at the border . I suspect that some of that be touch on by David Neal . Alexander Downer conduct a review of Border Force , and give an excellent report . I do not know whether the Home Affairs Committee even see it ; it seem to have be bury . I know for a fact that it include some very serious and good recommendation , which would have lead to fundamental reform at the border . I suspect that David Neal would have agree with some of the measure . the Department have be silent on this . I do not think that there have be any progress or implementation of any of the recommendation . basic thing such as well engagement with industry , develop well technology and take a more long - term strategic approach to border security be what be plan at the Home Office . it be somewhat unfair to demand that those on the Front Bench explain what happen , but the House should know , because at the end of the day those report be commission to invest in a digital border and in long - term measure that would make our border much more secure and efficient , and to tackle issue such as illegal migration and documentation be dispose of when people enter our country , as well as all the wide challenge that the Minister be familiar with . that touch on the work with France and the funding we give France , which since my departure have increase to more than £ 500 million . again , the public should know and hear much more about the value for money and , more importantly , the outcome , because those sum be unprecedented . also , how be increase use of surveillance at the border be leverage to go after the criminal gang ? what about more activity on patrol and in law enforcement along the french coast ? I should add that the french coastline be very difficult , give how large it be and how difficult it be to police . I pay tribute to everyone who work in that area , but again , so far this year the number of Channel - cross arrival have pass more than 3 , 500 , which be high than at the same point last year . when half a billion pound be be spend , it be important that the public and the House see a level of transparency with what be go on . I will touch on the Rwanda partnership , which be important , and there will be a debate in the House on Monday , when the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill come back before we . I say that the partnership be important , because I negotiate the original one , but I come to the House and at the outset set out the original costing of £ 120 million . it be a migration and economic development partnership . clearly , the principle of the Rwanda partnership as it now stand have move mile from the original . that be deeply concern . there have be zero transparency . as the Chair of the Select Committee point out , what on earth have go on with the partnership over the past 12 month , other than more cash be funnel into it and to the Government of Rwanda ? I will say something about the Government of Rwanda but , on the original partnership , which be world lead , other country in Europe be still to this day — as I know from conversation that I be have — look at the model and may follow it . various european country have take an interest because of wide migration issue across Europe and because of destabilisation in the world . however , I add that there have be far too much criticism of the country and Government of Rwanda , and much of that have be ill - inform , misleading and inaccurate . the country have experience significant economic growth , rise living standard this century — with 1 million more people lift out of poverty in their country — and increase life expectancy , so it be important that we do not malign Rwanda . Rwanda join the Commonwealth in 2009 . it have work with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to support more than 130 , 000 refugee . it be a country that be commit to play a leadership role on the african continent and to make a contribution to tackle one of the big challenge that they and we face — I say " they " about those on the african continent — which be mass migration . I pay tribute to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Co - operation , Vincent Biruta , and to the High Commissioner in London , because they be outstanding in their engagement with our Government , include I and other . it be important that we make this partnership work . I be sceptical , I have to say , about what we have read in the press this week — I think that be the good way to put it — on how the partnership will work . that bring I to the issue that have be touch on already : we have to be practical . the Home Office be an operational Department , and day - to - day operational cost be inevitably high . give the voluntary return , removal and reception centre — which we do not have now — and the cost of run detain facility with the require support staff , it be right to negotiate the contract properly and transparently . everyone need to have the right kind of scrutiny . I say that because something might go wrong , not just with the contract but when incident happen — they have happen in the past . the Home Office might have legal action take against it , such as on the handling of a voluntary return or removal of a migrant . the challenge be enormous , and the reputational — do my right hon . friend recall that when it be announce that £ 500 million be be make available to the French for some form of processing centre , the European Union announce the very next day that it be not go to allow they to do it ? do that not send we a big message about the potential waste of money on quite a big scale ? my hon . friend make an important point and give I the chance to expand on that from an operational perspective . that be over a year ago . it be consider a flagship announcement from the Government , but we have not see that detention centre in France open up yet . although I think it be due to open in 2025 , the Government should report back on it . what have happen to the money ? what process be in place ? be there any update on that partnership ? my hon . friend mention the EU — that would have be the Commission in particular . I have spend a lot of time with the Commission . it be important to have those discussion . let we not forget that the EU Commission fund the reception centre in Greece , which have go a long way towards deter illegal migration to Greece and stop the awful crossing that be take place . I pay tribute to the former Greek Minister of Migration and Asylum , Notis Mitarachi , who do an outstanding job . I work with he on the replication of the greek - style reception centre in the UK , because , as we show in the new plan for immigration , we could follow the money , develop transparent operational plan and see their deterrence impact . that be critical . my final point be about the legislation that this House have pass in the last two year in the asylum and illegal migration space : the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , and the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , which be pass when I be Home Secretary . minister and everyone in Government know my view on this , but I want to put on record that it be really not good enough that the legislation that we have pass have not be implement . I will speak in particular to the Nationality and Borders Act . if we want to follow the money and drive outcome , implement the legislation be crucial . we leave in the Department a fully cost operational plan for the implementation of the NABA , as it now be , which would have introduce the one - stop shop . that one - stop shop — the immigration court and tribunal — would have go a long way towards reduce cost and the time it take to process case . here we be , 14 month on since the 2022 legislation be enact , and that have not happen . ditto on the reception and accommodation centre . at the time , the cost be envisage to be £ 120 million , include for start - up . processing cost would then have come into it through digitalisation of asylum case . it be inexcusable that the needle have not be move on that . it be no long acceptable for people to just discard such plan , as a result of the revolve door , and say , " actually , we don ' t need these ; we can have new plan . " all that do be kick the can down the road and increase Government expenditure . we be now in the unprecedented situation of the Home Secretary of the day retrospectively try to get approval for more than £ 4 billion of public spending for asylum accommodation . whether on a partnership with Rwanda , cross - border work with the french authority , implementation of provision in our legislation , or delivery of accommodation centre , I can say that plan be in place — absolutely . we must get back on track . this debate should send out two message — to the Home Office , yes , but also for future spending review . we have have this period of annual spending review , but we must go back to five - year SR period , with proper fiscal transparency , lead by the Treasury , and Ministers must be hold to account on public expenditure . we must go back to the core principle of follow money , people and outcome . I beg to move amendment ( a ) , " that resource for use for current purpose be reduce by £ 740 , 850 , 000 relate to asylum and migration . " the amendment stand in my name and that of my honourable colleague . as the Chair of the Home Affairs Select Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , have so clearly lay out , there have be frustration among member of the Committee about the opacity of Home Office spending . there have be obfuscation , delay , denial and downright sleekitness over many month , and from read the supplementary estimate in front of we , it be still very difficult to get to the bottom of what money have be spend when those estimate come forward for retrospective approval today . member on the Government Benches , include current and former Home Office Ministers , be prepared to weigh in publicly and call outrage on the spending of the Home Office , but try to get any clarity on how the Department utilise its budget have be like try to nail jelly to a wall . I agree that spending appear to be out of control , but the utter incompetence and abject cruelty at the heart of the Home Office make thing so much bad . if the Home Office be overspend , but at least have a decent set of outcome and treat people humanely , I would perhaps be a wee bit more forgiving . instead , it be preside over a chaotic , mean and dangerous system , where those who be unlucky enough to come within its orbit be draw into a dystopian nightmare . it be a pity that due to the timing of this debate , we be not able to have sight of the National Audit Office ' s report on asylum accommodation , which be due to be publish on Wednesday . I hope the Minister will come to the House next week to speak to that report . we do , however , have information on what kind of service be be provide . just this week , the food charity Sustain , work with Jesuit Refugee Service UK and life Seekers aid , publish research that find that , " People seek asylum do not have access to sufficient money , kitchen facility or food to meet their need , be provide with food that do not meet food hygiene or nutritional standard , in some case result in hospitalisation . experience of food be broadly experienced as degrade and dehumanising , especially for mother unable to feed their child adequately . " that desperately poor and deeply harmful experience be be provide by Home Office contractor , who have see their profit soar . clearspring and Stay Belvedere Hotels Ltd , for example , have make a combined profit of over £ 113 million , and Serco and Mears be also profit handsomely from those lucrative contract . the UK Government often claim that they want to support displace people close to the place from which they have flee , yet the supplementary estimate reveal that they be now quite brazenly pochle the official development assistance budget to the tune of £ 3 . 2 million , a staggering 389 . 6 % increase just from the sum in the main estimate . that money be suppose to help the world ' s most vulnerable — to support country and help they flourish . instead , it be simply boost the profit of company that be demonstrably not even provide the very basic of humanity . facility such as the Bibby Stockholm , Napier barracks , Wethersfield and Scampton be be present as some kind of alternative to hotel , but in many case they cost just as much if not more , and be no well run . hotel cost so much because of the delay that the Home Office be preside over : people leave wait , not just for month but for year at a time , without a decision . the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , have the cheek to say on Sky News that this be quite deliberate ; the Government do not want to speed the process up , because that would make the UK too attractive . they be preside over their own failure quite deliberately and purposefully , so if the Minister say today that it be terrible that we be spend so much money on hotel , I would ask he to speed up those application and let people get on with their life . the Bibby Stockholm barge be estimate to cost taxpayer £ 41 , 000 a day or £ 15 million a year . with around 300 asylum seeker be house on that barge , that equate to a cost of about £ 205 per day per person , the same as an overnight stay in a four - star hotel . throw into an indefinite stay in a share room on an industrial barge moor in an operational port , however , you get the bonus of legionella bacteria in the water supply , as well as anxiety , depression , respiratory illness , infectious disease and , unfortunately , see some of your fellow inmate commit suicide . I have not have much of an opportunity to speak about the Home Affairs Committee ' s visit to the Bibby Stockholm , but I will take this opportunity to put on record the sadness , confusion and frustration of those on board . those man feel that they be be punish for some unknown misdemeanour — unable to get any peace and quiet , live in impossibly close proximity to people for month at a time , with no certainty as to when that will end , and their health need not be properly assess . the vessel be not intend to be live on 24 / 7 , and despite the tabloid rhetoric , none of those I meet on that boat have come on small boat . some have be international student , force to claim asylum when the political situation in their home country deteriorate . one tell I : " the long you be in here , you turn into a person you don ' t know " . how incredibly sad it be that the UK Government see fit to treat people in that way . I completely agree with what the hon . Lady have say about our visit to the Bibby Stockholm . do she agree with I that what Wendy Williams say in her review on the Windrush scandal about the Home Office remember the " face behind the case " seem to have be lose in the way we be now treat some asylum seeker ? the right hon . member be absolutely correct to point that out . from read some of the report of the independent chief inspector , it be very clear that that policy have all but be abandon . People have lose the sense that they be deal with actual human being — with story , with dignity , with a past and a future — and that these thing have be completely lose all together . People be treat as so much less than as if they be actual human being , and that be quite appalling from any Government . it be appal to listen to those story , and to hear what people have be through and what they continue to suffer in those circumstance . Home Office official have reportedly raise significant concern about the cost and feasibility of housing asylum seeker at MDP Wethersfield in Essex and RAF Scampton in Lincolnshire . in addition to the near £ 15 million to another private contractor to set it up , it be estimate that it will cost about £ 72 million per year to accommodate people at Wethersfield — a site about which the now former chief inspector of border and immigration raise concern about safety . he say that " there be an overwhelming feeling of hopelessness cause by boredom which invariably , in my experience , lead to violence . " that be before the site be even at full capacity . it would be useful to know from the Minister what he be do to address the concern about violence at the site , because the chief inspector be very clear to the Committee how worried he be about that . a report publish in December by the Helen Bamber Foundation and the Humans for Rights Network find that the asylum accommodation site at Wethersfield be cause " significant " and " irreparable " harm to resident , and recommend that it be shut down as a matter of urgency . not only will the public cover the cost of the woeful condition at Wethersfield , but they be also het for the Government ' s court fee in any upcoming legal battle . Scampton , similarly , come in at an estimate £ 109 million this year . the detention estate have be grow arm and leg over the past few year , and the estimate provide by the Home Office suggest that the trend be only set to continue . the cost of detain someone for one day be estimate at about £ 113 per person . expand the detention estate at Campsfield House and Haslar immigration removal centre be expect to come in at about £ 260 million . ludicrously , the Home Office have make quite a deliberate choice to pursue these more expensive and more punitive option , despite have clear evidence from the pilot of alternative to detention , which it itself commission , that be find to be significantly cheap , more effective and with much well health outcome for those in that system . it be no secret that the SNP think the Rwanda scheme be irredeemably awful . it be unworkable , conspicuous punishment . the Supreme Court have find the scheme to be unlawful . on top of all that , it be of course eye - wateringly expensive . I would like to thank the National Audit Office for its report set out the know sum so clearly . I find it quite wild that the former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , come here today to criticise the ball that she herself start roll . I guess it have not work out the way she expect , but I could not really see what she think would be so great about the scheme in the first place . the UK ' s Rwanda scheme have cost about £ 220 million so far under the UK - Rwanda partnership , not include the UK Government ' s legal cost for defend the plan in the court . the Home Affairs Committee finally receive evidence in November last year that , in addition to the money already send , additional payment will be make to the Government of Rwanda each year . quite unbelievably , some of this be only uncover because somebody in Rwanda let it slip to the International Monetary Fund ; it be not through due diligence to our own Parliament or the parliamentary Committees that be suppose to scrutinise these thing , but because of a slip in some other documentation . there be a direct cost of £ 20 million to the Home Office , which the National Audit Office say be expect to rise to £ 28 million by the end of 2023 - 24 . there will be £ 1 million a year in staff cost , £ 11 , 000 in flight cost per individual and the as yet unknown cost of escort individual to Rwanda . there be also the bounty to Rwanda for the delivery of the first 300 asylum seeker , which be a further one - off £ 120 million . whether or not member believe 300 will actually be send , the fact be that this be within the documentation . the National Audit Office report set out a further payment schedule for each person remove to Rwanda up to a total of £ 150 , 874 each . again , it be entirely unclear how much this will all add up to in the end , because it depend on somebody stay put once they have get to Rwanda , which nobody can guarantee . the NAO say that the number be " inherently uncertain " ; I would say that that be put it mildly . of course , this do not save any money . the UK Government ' s own figure estimate that move an asylum seeker to Rwanda would cost £ 63 , 000 more than keep they in the UK to be process , so it be no wonder the permanent secretary would not sign it off without ministerial direction . I do not seek to malign Rwanda or its government , but we hear a curious dichotomy from Government Members , whereby Rwanda be safe enough that the legislation can pass , but sufficiently scary to serve as a deterrent to those desperate enough to risk their life cross the channel in a flimsy inflatable . it can not be both scary and safe at the same time ; it can not be a deterrent and something that be perfectly reasonable . those two thing can not exist together . bizarrely , we have hear the news just today from Lizzie Dearden at the Independent that the Home Office be so desperate to fill up these flight that it be offer those who have be unsuccessful in their asylum claim £ 3 , 000 to go to Rwanda . this be wild stuff , and again it have not be bring to this House as a proposal and have not receive any further scrutiny . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech . not every country in Europe behave in the same way and try to outsource or evade its human right obligation by export refugee and asylum seeker . do she agree that we ought to give asylum seeker the right to work much quick so that they can join the labour force and contribute to the economy , rather than be hold at great expense in totally unsatisfactory and often totally appalling condition ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct , and that entirely flip on its head the Government ' s argument that asylum seeker be some kind of burden . many have skill that they wish to bring to the workforce and many have thing they wish to contribute ; they want to say thank you for be give sanctuary . they have a lot to offer the UK , but the UK Government be not interested and do not see they as people with skill who can contribute in any meaningful way , which be desperately sad . the Migration Observatory at the University of Oxford have suggest that a value for money assessment should take account of asylum seeker who be neither deter from come nor remove to Rwanda , because they be now leave in a limbo of the Home Office ' s own making . they can not have their asylum claim process nor in most case be remove to their home country because of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . they be inadmissible and be unable to work , to contribute and to move on with their life . who exactly do this situation benefit and where on earth be the Home Office go to accommodate they ? it can not say . none of this be sustainable . the new backlog replace the old one , and over 12 , 000 people be now appeal to the first - tier tribunal due to slapdash decision make in haste to meet the Prime Minister ' s target last year . safe and legal route have be close down . money have be give hand over fist to France and Belgium , while Home Office staff be leave without the resource they need to do their job effectively . the independent chief inspector of border and immigration note in his report on asylum casework that staff have take demotion rather than continue as caseworker , and manager have try to shield their team from difficult message come from above . the Guardian have reveal this afternoon that the Atlas database flaw have leave 76 , 000 people list with incorrect name , photograph or immigration status and case combine together . what an absolute guddle this system be . the Home Office be now under investigation , I understand , by the Information Commissioner due to its utter incompetence and inability to process case properly . the Home Office have pull off the astonishing feat of create an asylum system that be simultaneously slow , expensive , shoddy and in some case unlawful besides . this wastefulness be a pattern of behaviour from a Department that appear to regard those who come to our shore as somehow less than human . in a cost of living crisis , the Rwanda scheme be a bottomless pit for public fund . the UK Government under either the Tories or Labour can not find the money for an essential guarantee , to scrap the two - child limit or for cost of live support for people struggle every day , yet when it come to dog - whistle politic there be a big blank cheque . there be limitation on what we as mp can do about this . the estimate and budgetary process be entirely inadequate for the purpose , particularly in light of the fact that this be a Department prone to secrecy and misdirection . my SNP colleague and I have table an amendment to reduce the resource for use for current purpose relate to immigration and asylum by £ 740 , 850 , 000 . that pertain to our good estimate of how much the supplementary estimate would have to be reduce by to defund the Rwanda plan , the Bibby Stockholm and Wethersfield , Scampton , Campsfield and Haslar immigration removal centre . it be a small part of what the Home Office have waste on scheme that have absolutely no merit and that cause more harm than they ever will good . I commend our amendment to the House . I shall speak to the main motion . I listen to the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , and I be not entirely sure that she make the case for reduce resource to the Home Office . I will agree with much , but try not to repeat much , of what the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee say . it have be a long labour of love to try to get relevant information out of Home Office official . anything approach financial figure be always meet with a degree of reluctance and opaqueness . even the Home Affairs Committee — describe only yesterday as " Westminster ' s good committee " in a lead newspaper by a lead journalist — have be frustrate by the problem we have have when interrogating official from the Home Office . I in no way direct that criticism at the Minister on the Front Bench and his colleague , who have be something of a breath of fresh air . have be a member of the Committee for 10 year , I can say that our relation with official and our ability to get information out of they have never be bad . that be a great shame , because we have an important job to do . we be the scrutiniser of the Home Office , not least because it do not have one in the form of a chief inspector of border and immigration — this debate be on that area — after the recent unfortunate demise of the excellent David Neal , who have yet to be replace . the Home Affairs Committee ' s work be even more important at the moment to try to fill part of that vacuum as well we can . this be an estimate day debate about figure , and it be a complex area . the whole budget figure that we be look at be £ 23 . 6 billion for the Home Office in 2024 - 25 . the large increase of £ 3 . 9 billion be for asylum support and accommodation . that figure have rise by 733 % over the past five year . net legal migration hit a record 745 , 000 in the last year , but most of the spend in this area of the Department , and certainly most of the increase spend , be on illegal — or shall we call it irregular — immigration . those be people arrive without prior permission who be subsequently able to stay , either because they be permit to stay or because they can for all practical purpose not be deport for various reason . the Home Office account be split between four area of spending : day - to - day spending , investment spending , resource day - to - day spend and capital . I want to strip that down into five main area under irregular immigration headline . first , there be the money we be spend largely in France on try to prevent people from come here in irregular way in the first place . secondly , there be the cost of process irregular migrant when they arrive in our territorial water and then on our shore , and then the cost of accommodation and police secure accommodation or hotel , as well as the cost of delay and the backlog — or queue , as the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee say we now have to call it . thirdly , there be the cost of return people when we can do so because agreement be in place . fourthly , there be the cost of those we can not return or those who do return to country we could not otherwise return they to because they take a voluntary payment . that include the cost of the Rwanda scheme . at the heart of this , the vital question that the opposition have fail to answer every time they have be challenge on it be : what do we do with people who have come here irregularly — be it through little boat and pay people smuggler , on lorry or through other mean — and have their asylum claim firmly reject , but who come from country to which it be practically impossible to return they , such as Iran and Eritrea ? the purpose of the Rwanda scheme and much of the irregular migration spend be to try to come up with a solution to that particular problem . fifthly — this be slightly related — there be the cost of the big net increase in legal migration to infrastructure and service in the UK . much of the impact of that fall on other Departments . add to all those area be the question of who be oversee whether that substantial investment be achieve what be intend , in the absence of a chief inspector of border and immigration . it be important to put in context the whole spend and the whole activity of the Home Office on migration . too often , we hear , " what a waste of money on the Rwanda scheme . " much of that be up - front cost , but it must be see in the context of what we be spend on hotel accommodation in this country while those people who should not have come here be here , and while we can not send they to their original country or a third country . my hon . friend be make an important point . it be also imperative that we recognise that some of the spending be base on forecast . we constantly hear from the Home Office its forecast on expected irregular migrant , small boat arrival and so on . a methodology can be apply to be much more transparent about the funding that be allocate and the deterrence measure that can be put in place , along with all the additional cost . the Home Office should be really transparent about all of that . I be sure that my right hon . friend be absolutely right that a methodology be be use and that the figure could be available , but the opaqueness that be apply to prevent the Home Affairs Committee and anyone else who want to get to the bottom of the figure from see whether we be get value for money , let alone cost - effectiveness , be really frustrating . the Home Office must have those calculation — I be sure she see they in her time at the head of the Home Office — and they should be available to Parliament and those who scrutinise the Department ' s activity . let I look at the first area , which be effectively the £ 480 million subsidy that we give to the french police force to police its beach to try to stop these people get to the boat in the first place . we know that the number of interception have go up ; the trouble be that , by and large , the police do not arrest those people , so they be free to try again the follow night and so on with a new boat or dinghy from China , Turkey or one of the other source . we have see all the fantastic kit that the french police have — the drone , the rigid inflatable boat and the dune buggy that the Home Affairs Committee have be on — but the trouble be that people be still get through . we have this problem because of the absence of French co - operation in detaining and process people in France to determine their status , as be do in Belgium , where we do not have the problem , as the Committee see at first hand when we go there . there be also the whole question of what the French be do with that kit . there be story that some of the night drone capability that we provide to they be be use in the south of the country , police the Mediterranean rather than the channel , with the money have go on microwave and such thing as well . be we get value for money from the £ 480 million that we be give to the french police force ? the hon . Member be make a valuable point about money . if I hear he correctly , he suggest that we be spend £ 480 million on protection along the french coast that be not effective . when we add that to the hundred of million spend on the Rwanda scheme — which so far have do nothing — do he agree that if we have be less obsess with solve the problem at the endpoint , and have instead invest the money in improve the condition in other country through international development to make it viable for people to stay in they , as well as in safe and legal route , we would not have this problem now ? the hon . Lady make a number of rather conflict argument . the point that I make right at the top of my speech — I be not sure if she be here — be that we need to see the spend in the whole context . if we be spend money here , it be because the alternative would be spend even more there , not have solve the problem at source . as someone who defend the 0 . 7 % overseas spending commitment , I agree that this be a global problem on which international co - operation be need if we be to ensure that people have more incentive , and it be more viable and sustainable , to stay in the country that they be depart from , not necessarily because of civil war and danger but because of economic condition link to climate change . that be why we have such large migration from equatorial and sub - saharan country . I completely agree with the hon . Lady . she know my position on safe and legal route ; I table amendment on the subject to the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . the Government need to do more — and will do more — on safe and legal route , but that should be couple with be much tough on those who do not use they because they have no legitimate case for apply for asylum in the United Kingdom . we need to come down on those people hard , to prevent they come here in the first place . if they do come here , we need to do everything we can to remove they from the country as soon as possible . I be listen with great interest to my hon . friend ' s authoritative speech . there be a paradox that always strike I about give money to the French to stop the small boat come : if they ever succeed in stop the small boat come , that would mean that France would be the end of the line for those illegal immigrant . that would mean that the French would have to start impose their own border , which have largely be dismantle in the context of the EU , to stop the illegal migration into their country . can we ever really expect the French to co - operate in seal off the illegal route across the channel ? the response be , " to an extent , Lord Copper . " the authority around Calais who be try to deal with the crossing say that the year before last , when the Government announce the Rwanda scheme , they see a big surge in migrant around Calais approach the french authority to try to regularise their position in France , because they do not want to risk be put on a plane to Rwanda . why be so many migrant in the north of France around Calais ? they have come to France because they think that there be a chance that they can get to the UK . they would not necessarily go to France if it be clear that they could not get to the UK because they would be stop by whatever mean — hopefully by the French intercept they in the water or on the beach and bring they back — and they would be pay money for a round trip . there be different aspect to this . rise — if my right hon . friend will allow I , I will continue . I know that other member want to speak , and I have a few more point to make . my second point be on the whole cost of processing . there be self - inflict cost , because the Home Office take too long to increase the number of caseworker to speed up processing time . it have now do that , but it need to go still far . as of last September , the asylum backlog or queue be 165 , 411 , which be up 11 % on the previous year , but up 372 % over five year . we have now see a fourfold increase in the number of decision . the Home Affairs Committee be particularly concerned that last year 17 , 316 asylum seeker withdraw their asylum application . the permanent secretary and his no . 2 at the Home Office be singularly incapable of tell we what have happen to those 17 , 316 people and why they withdraw their application , and of assure we that they be leave the UK . it turn out that an awful lot of they have not leave the UK , and the whereabout of rather a lot of they — about a third — be unknown to the Home Office . it would be interesting to hear from the Minister what the backlog / queue be now , and what audit have be do on the cost effectiveness of recruit additional caseworker , how that feed through to quick processing time , how that have benefit we financially , and what the efficiency be from fast processing . we also need to know the breakdown of the cost of accommodation and assistance for asylum claim that be in limbo . the former Immigration Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , state that the Home Office be spend £ 8 . 3 million a day , or about £ 140 per person per night , on hotel accommodation . that be last year , since when some hotel have be take out of circulation . that be good progress , and hopefully the £ 8 . 3 million a day cost be reduce , but how much be spend on accommodate those await initial decision , especially in the last six month in which they have be wait ? secondly , how much be spend on accommodate those who have have their claim reject but be go through additional appeal process , or those whom we still can not deport to their country of origin , although they have go through appeal process ? thirdly , how much be we spend on those whose claim have be accept and have leave to remain , but for whom there be a shortage of long - term and appropriate accommodation to transfer they to ? that be the problem we have with afghan family who , airlift from Kabul airport , be here legitimately . they be still stay in hotel after many year , largely because it be difficult to find large house to accommodate large family . it be completely unsuitable to have child in hotel for year at a time , when they have to go to school and try to socialise with other child . as of the end of last year , there be 111 , 132 individual in receipt of asylum support . that be down 10 % on the figure for September , the previous quarter , but still include about 45 , 500 people in hotel accommodation . will the Minister tell we at what rate hotel accommodation be decrease , and by how much cost be reduce ? I want to touch on the cost of those we can return . an article in the Financial Times early this week , in which I be quote , raise concern about the shortage of detention space . the problem be the grow number of people who have come here since the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , and who have no status to be here . they be not in jail ; presumably , they be on bail , and some might disappear into the ether . the Home Affairs Committee will visit Brook House next week . many people have be there a long time because of continuous appeal . how much be that cost ? what be the cost of the return agreement with country such as Albania ? all those be cost on the immigration and asylum budget . my hon . friend be be very generous in give way . there be an important point to make about return agreement and remove individual . cost aside , section 40 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 amend section 24 of the Immigration Act 1971 to cover re - entry ban . I do not know whether the Government have implement that , but unless it be enforce , it will lead to the very problem that he be allude to : further cost , pressure on accommodation , and entire process restart all over again . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . there be story — they be not apocryphal ; I have hear they on good authority — of people who , under an agreement , have be return from the UK to Albania , accompany by an officer . that officer have then return to Heathrow or Gatwick airport , only to see the person they just return to Albania in the queue ahead of they , come back into the country . there be way and mean of get back into the country . enforcement be absolutely crucial ; otherwise the system be a complete joke — and a very expensive joke . we be return people on a temporary basis when it should be a permanent arrangement , until and unless they apply legitimately , and be accept as have a reason to come to the UK legitimately . all sort of figure have be bandy around for the cost of the Rwanda scheme ; the Home Office have disclose only the £ 140 million to Rwanda in the first year of the deal . I absolutely accept that there be all sort of start - up cost , so I be not trouble by the fact that we be pay money up front . the Rwandans have say that if the scheme do not take off , literally , they will return at least part , if not most , of the money , so there be some assurance there . however , even if the amount we be spend on the Rwanda scheme turn out to be , say , £ 500 million , give that it cost £ 8 . 3 million a day to house people in hotel , the cost of the scheme will be just two month - worth of hotel . there be an economic case for invest in the scheme , because the alternative be people stay in hotel at an expensive rate unless we can find cheap accommodation for they , so it will not be long before the scheme have pay for itself . we must look at it holistically , in the round . I have a few question to leave in the lap of the Minister . first , there be the overall question of why we be accept so many asylum claimant in the UK . France receive more application , but reject twice as many as we do . we must also take account of the fact that some of the return figure have be slightly distort . in its rush to clear some of the backlog , the Home Office have invariably go for low - hang fruit — some of the easy case to accept , such as child and woman — so the acceptance rate be artificially high , as it have not deal with the more problematic case that be more likely to be reject . in 2023 , the number of people grant refugee status be the high on record , at more than 62 , 000 . why be the threshold apparently so much low in this country than in many other european country , and what calculation have the Home Office make about the financial saving that would result if we toughen up that arrangement and raise the threshold , so that we reject more claim in the future ? I ask what would happen to those who have be in limbo since the Illegal Migration Act 2023 come into force . do the Minister think that we may have to issue some sort of amnesty , as we do previously , to enable people to qualify for assessment of their claim ? I welcome the change to immigration rule that have be herald by the Minister . certain people come here be dependant who do not need to come with the primary visa applicant , and be likely to be a cost , rather than a contributor , to the Exchequer . there be reason for we to allow that in certain case , but accord to the 2021 census , the size of the population have rise by 7 . 4 % since the previous census , and the volume of resource and infrastructure have not rise comparatively . over those 10 year , the number of GP surgery increase by only 4 % , and the number of secondary school by only 4 . 9 % . the population be rise , and it be forecast that there will be 6 . 1 million more migrant by 2036 . work people age between 20 and 64 who be bear in the UK have a much high rate of employment than people who have migrate to the UK . I agree that immigration be good , but not all type of immigration be necessarily add to the UK economy rather than draw on it , so we need to be more discriminating in decide whom we allow into the country . genuine refugee flee danger certainly have a case for safe haven here , but when it come to dependant who will not necessarily be contribute to the UK , we need to clamp down on that more , which indeed be what be announce today . a large part of this policy be about address illegal , irregular migration . it be incumbent on anyone who disagree with it to come up with their own solution to the problem of how we should deal with people who enter the country with no legitimate , credible case for claim asylum and be grant safe haven , because that be where an awful lot of the money be go . it be absolutely right for we to be able to scrutinise that money properly , and it be absolutely right to expect the Government to give answer about whether it be be use effectively . however , I give credit to the Government for try to come up with proper , sustainable solution such as the Rwanda scheme to deal with all the cost of a very inefficient migration system that treat we unfairly , give that people with absolutely no credible case for safe haven from we be choose to pay people smuggler to cross the channel in the most dangerous and inappropriate way . frankly , those people be jump the queue , and the big victim be genuine asylum seeker , to whom we have always have a good and generous tradition of give safe haven . they be the one who we absolutely need to focus on , and we be spend far too much money on people who be , frankly , game our system . I want to focus my comment on the cost of the Government ' s Rwanda policy , particularly as I visit Kigali two week ago as Chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights . the Committee will report on our visit in due course , so any comment that I make today be make in my personal capacity . it be good that the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , remind we that information about the cost of the Rwanda scheme have come not from the Government , but from the National Audit Office and other source . I really query whether the scheme offer value for money , and whether it will work as a deterrent . we hear from the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee about the huge increase in the asylum support , resettlement and accommodation budget , and it be important to put that in context by look at how many asylum seeker come to the United Kingdom every year . look at the figure , we can see that there be asylum claim for about 84 , 000 individual in the most recent year — let we say about 80 , 000 . bear that figure in mind for what I be go to say in a minute . I completely agree with the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) that it be important not to be rude about the Rwandans , because they be good people , as I will come back to . when I be in Rwanda , I ask Government official how many asylum seeker they expect to receive from the UK , and they tell I that they expect to receive 2 , 000 over the first four month and 10 , 000 over the next five year . that is 2 , 000 per annum , which be 2 . 5 % of the 80 , 000 asylum seeker who come here every year . what be the Government propose to do with the rest of they ? we need to know about those cost . the central point I want to make in what little time I have be that we need a system for asylum seeker who come to the United Kingdom . we need to go back to basic and think about an efficient , cost - effective system , but it must be a system whereby the United Kingdom take its fair share . the Joint Committee on Human Rights have hear evidence on this issue . look at the figure for displaced people and refugee , there be 36 million refugee in the world . the idea that they be all come to the United Kingdom be absolutely ludicrous . return to my trip to Rwanda , I want to give my own impression . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) make a very good point : how can Rwanda be a great place to be and safe , but also a deterrent at the same time ? I have form a pretty clear view as to why it be a deterrent . base on my visit to Rwanda , I agree with the UK Supreme Court that the Rwandan Government and the rwandan people be act in good faith , but I also agree with the House of Lords ' International Agreements Committee , which have look at this issue , that the relevant legislation have not finish go through Parliament , and that the system and the training be in their infancy . it will take a long time for the Rwandans to create an asylum system . we visit the accommodation in Kigali , which be of a very high quality . we see only one of the reception area , but I can tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that it be a hell of a lot nice than the Bibby Stockholm . perhaps that be because so many Rwandans have be refugee , owe to their recent history . they be at pain to remind we of how many refugee they have welcome from over the border with Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo , and of how they see refugee as their " friend , brother and sister " . I be strike by how that do not accord with the current discourse in the United Kingdom . perhaps the UK Government should take a leaf out of the Rwandans ' book and see refugee as their friend , brother and sister . that might make it easy for they to devise a cost - effective system whereby we take our fair share . Rwanda have a write constitution , but very few people be able to point to any case law show people take advantage of their right under that constitution . in 2016 , the Rwandan Government withdraw the right of rwandan citizen to individually petition the African Court on Human and Peoples ' right because they do not like the court ' s decision on their dissident . that sound familiar , doesn ' t it ? most importantly , the Home Office have prepare a 137 - page country information note on human right in Rwanda that collate source range from the US State Department to Human Rights Watch , and it set out very serious shortcoming in the protection of human right in Rwanda . before we go , my Committee take evidence from dissident who have concern about their human right . I have write elsewhere about my concern for the protection of LGBT right in Rwanda . at good , Rwanda be where the United Kingdom be 50 year ago . yes , it be not criminal to be gay or transgender , but LGBT people have no positive right , and they live in a society in which stigmatisation and discrimination be common . nobody be able to give I any example of anyone be able to exercise their right through the court . be it not also concern that the Government ' s travel advice for Rwanda state that they can not guarantee the safety of LGBT people ? indeed , it be . when I gueste at the Home Affairs Committee , I raise with a Minister that we tell LGBT brit go to Rwanda that they need to be careful as we can not guarantee their safety , but we be now quite happy to send LGBT asylum seeker there . I could say a lot more about Rwanda , but it be important to understand why it be a deterrent . People often come here to seek asylum because they have criticise their country ' s Government , because they be a human right defender or because they be gay or transgender . Rwanda be not an attractive country for they , as the United Kingdom be at present . the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee tell we that the UK will pay around £ 150 , 000 per person relocate to Rwanda , to cover asylum processing and integration over the first five year . if we apply that to the 12 , 000 figure give by the rwandan authority , that come to billion of pound . on what basis can that be say to be cost - effective ? billion of pound be be spend on send to Rwanda less than 2 . 5 % of the people who come to these shore seek asylum . it be a gimmick , and the Government should own up that it be a gimmick . they should not be spend taxpayer ' money on a gimmick and a sop to their Back Benchers . what do the Minister have to say about the point I have raise today ? rise — Order . I have think that we have lot of time for this debate , but everything expand . I would be grateful if the two remain back - Bench speaker take around eight minute each . we will then be able to get everyone in , barely . I will certainly do my good , Madam Deputy Speaker . of course , the debate might have expand even far if any labour Back Benchers other than the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee have turn up . we SNP Members be accuse of disengage from this place , but four of we have contribute to this debate , compare with only one member from the official Opposition . estimate debate should be among the most important debate each year , as this be the process by which we approve billion of pound of Government expenditure . before we be nearly £ 8 billion set aside for the Home Office . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , many SNP Members take a great interest in the estimate , both the process and the substance . not so long ago , my hon . friend the Member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) — he should be my right hon . friend — be call to order and have to leave the Chamber for dare to try to debate the estimate on estimate day . we have be assure by the then Leader of the House that the estimate process be the way to make sure that Scotland ' s voice be hear on question of Government expenditure and Barnett consequential , and that the english vote for english law procedure would not stifle the vote or voice of Scottish Members . we may have be deliver from EVEL in this House , but if there be any positive legacy from those unlamented procedure , it be that estimate day be now set aside for the discussion of estimate , and we can debate and indeed vote on detailed aspect of Government expenditure . that do not mean that the process be not still woefully lack in effectiveness and the ability to propose substantive change . in other legislature , there can be line - by - line examination of a Government ' s budget and spending plan , and member can propose detailed amendment to direct fund to their priority policy or community . that be not an option available to we , but I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) and our estimable colleague in the SNP Whips Office on their ingenuity in bring forward the amendment before we today . the spending of the Home Office , particularly on asylum and immigration , certainly do warrant scrutiny and amendment . when minister say that the sum be vast — indeed , the sum spend on asylum accommodation be too high — they be not wrong . but their solution , their alternative , be wrong — very wrong . as the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) say , the most straightforward and simple — and also the most practical and dignified — solution to the question of asylum accommodation , be to give asylum seeker the right to work and allow they to pay for their own accommodation . instead of cost the taxpayer money , let they become taxpayer . let asylum seeker contribute to the Treasury , our economy and our community . if Conservative member be genuinely concerned about community cohesion and integration , surely the way to build that be not to ostracise and " other " asylum seeker , but to allow they to play an active , positive role in our society and economy . there be plenty of example where immigration in that sense have work , as we see if we look at the contribution that the syrian community have make to life on Scotland ' s island since that resettlement scheme be introduce , at how Ukrainians have be welcome into home and family and school and workplace across the country through those scheme . of course , we have speak many time about the impact that Afghans have have in Glasgow , not least through the Glasgow Afghan United organisation , head up by my good friend , Councillor Abdul Bostani . I invite the Minister to come to Glasgow to meet refugee and asylum seeker such as those support by Glasgow Afghan United and the Maryhill Integration Network . it be point out early that the number of asylum seeker , even those come on small boat , would not be accommodate in Rwanda under the current plan , if that should go ahead . be the hon . Gentleman aware that many of those try to cross from Calais — I have be there and meet they — be desperate people , some of whom be victim of war , some of whom be victim of war in Afghanistan and some of whom be victim of war in Afghanistan because they have work for the british force there . surely we need to have a slightly more humanitarian approach to what be desperate people . yes , I agree entirely on that . the safe and legal route that do exist for Ukrainians , Syrians and some Afghans be exception to the rule . they be the exception to the hostile environment , which start when anybody get off a plane and have to wait in interminable queue at the UK to get through passport control . it be a hostile environment that can end with the prospect of be deport to Rwanda if the Home Secretary do not like the cut of someone ' s jib . for the past nine year or so , asylum , immigration and visa case have be at the very top of my constituency case load . way back in 2105 , a constituent of mine , literally a rocket scientist who want to contribute to world - class engineering project at our university , come to see I because the Home Office be attempt to refuse she a visa . I have lose track of the number of academic , musician , artist , religious minister and sometimes even just holidaymaker whose visit to the UK have be cancel or curtail by Home Office hostility and inefficiency . we have see family whose reunion have be deny , small business owner who have give up and move away , and funeral and wedding miss because the default position of the Home Office be suspicion and hostility towards anybody who want to come here , unless they be stink rich , in which case they be very welcome to come straight through the door , on a gold - plate visa . even as other part of the Government proclaim that Britain be great , and say that we need and want skilled and talented entrepreneur and graduate , the Home Office say , " no , Britain be close . " I have visit british embassy and high commission in part of Africa that have be festoon with bunting and advert for Chevening scholarship , and then go to dinner that evening with young people who could not take up their scholarship because they have be deny a visa . I have visit the visa processing centre in Lilongwe , Malawi , and I be grateful for the time they give I and for the efficiency with which they carry out their role . they take the biometric and process the paperwork , and they do so quickly and effectively . but then the application get stick at the point of decision making , not in Malawi , not with input from our excellent high commission team , but at a remote centre in Pretoria , and that cause frustration , confusion and too often disappointment among the visa applicant . all of that speak to inefficiency , systemic and systematic failure within the Home Office . I want to touch briefly on the question of the Rwanda scheme , as many have . accord to the National Audit Office , the scheme will cost £ 1 . 8 million per person for the first 300 potential deportee . I have a look online the other day — a year ' s full board in Disneyland Paris would cost £ 100 , 000 a year . the Prime Minister and the Minister for counter Illegal Migration have say that the reason they think Rwanda be a deterrent be because it be not the UK ; well , Disneyland Paris be not the UK , so there be a quick and cheap way of deter people . if that sound absurd , it be because the whole scheme be absurd . we have touch on the question of ODA . it would be interesting to know whether any of the funding under the UK - Rwanda migration and economic development partnership , or the treaty with Rwanda , will be class as ODA . as I say to the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , even if the UK Government have to count some of the money spend on support ukrainian refugee as ODA , that should not be an excuse to minimise the amount of ODA be spend elsewhere by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . the Government should never have abandon the 0 . 7 % target in the first place ; they break a cross - party consensus to do that . in an independent Scotland , the 0 . 7 % target would be a floor , not a ceiling , for our spending on support some of the poor and most vulnerable people around the world . but then in an independent Scotland , many thing will be different and in stark contrast to the decay and decline of Westminster under successive government of whatever hue . the Scottish Government have print commendable paper explain what a humane asylum , immigration and migration policy would look like . of course , Brexit have only add to all these cost . for generation , people have leave Scotland to make their home elsewhere in the world because they be clear from their land to make way for sheep , because their crop fail , because they want to join friend and family who have go before they , or because they have skill and talent that they want to put to use in an economy or society that could benefit from they . today many people from elsewhere in the world want to make their home in Scotland and the rest of the UK for precisely the same reason , but the UK Government say no . they spend vast amount of money say no , and they refuse to allow the devolved Administrations to do anything different . so it seem that devolution be in fact the real separatism . with independence , we will rejoin the world and play our part as an open , welcoming , good global citizen . it be a pleasure to take part in this necessary and timely debate . it be necessary because the common thread that have run through just about every contribution be the lack of transparency and accountability in the way the Home Office go about its business , and in how it account to this House for the way in which it go about its business . it be timely because , as the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) say , the Guardian have publish an article today about Home Office immigration database error that affect more than 76 , 000 people . the hon . Lady , I think , say that it be a guddle . if I may say so , I think that be an uncharacteristic understatement on her part ; in fact , it certainly meet the test for be call a right b ù rach . at the heart of the system , the Atlas tool be use by immigration officer and Home Office official for process any asylum or immigration dealing . that be underpin by the snappily title person centric datum platform , which store a migrant ' s interaction with UK immigration system over time , include visa application , identity document and biometric information . it store the record of 177 million people and be part of a Home Office project to digitise fully visa and immigration system that have cost more than £ 400 million since 2014 . the PCDP record feed into Atlas , so that Border Force official can view information and some people seek to track their own application can access they — and that be where the problem come to light . there be an issue of something call " merged identity " . essentially , merged identity , as I understand it , be of two ordinary people ; for example , Madam Deputy Speaker , you may have an application that be live , so you might go in and find my picture attach to your datum , or vice versa . how on earth can a Home Office official processing application possibly hope to make sense of that ? indeed , the person access this information online will of course immediately be upset and alarm at what they be find ; this be something that can bring up very profound feeling . it be an issue not just of datum mismanagement — as the hon . member for Glasgow Central say , the Information Commissioner ' s Office be look into this — but that strike at the right and opportunity of an individual to access some of the most basic service , rent housing , accommodation , healthcare and so much else . there be a substantive matter here . clearly , this be yet another botched Government it project , but the issue of process matter as well . member of the House have be ask about the operation of Atlas and the PCDP and they have be give assurance by Ministers . the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , the hon . member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , who I have hope might be in the debate today — fortunately for he , he be not — have give say in a write answer that no " systemic issue " have be identify with Atlas , but the document that have be see by the Guardian today clearly contradict that . either the Minister have be mislead by his official , or he have be tell something by his official that he do not think would be advantageous for Parliament to hear , so the information and the answer have be frame in a particular way . either way , it be clear that the culture within the Home Office be one that do not respect parliamentary accountability . I hope that , when the Minister for counter Illegal Migration , the right hon . and learn Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) , come to reply to the debate , he will tell the House what the Government know about the problem with the Atlas system and the person centric datum platform that underpin it , when they know that , and why they have not bring information about it to the House . the Guardian have do a tremendous service to this House by expose the full extent of Home Office failure , but that should not be necessary . we should not be rely on investigative journalist and on people blow whistle from inside the Home Office ; we should be able to take on trust what we be tell , but we be tell very little , and , on the basis of what we have read in the Guardian today , it seem that we can can not even trust that . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for secure this important debate and pay tribute to the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee for her powerful opening speech and for the outstanding work that she be do on these issue . the Home Office spending figure , detail an astronomical overspend of £ 5 . 9 billion last year , represent such a shockingly cavalier attitude to taxpayer ' money that it really do beggar belief . two third of that £ 5 . 9 billion be for asylum cost — a staggering £ 4 . 3 billion overspend over the past 12 month , take the total spend on emergency asylum hotel and asylum seeker support up to a quite astonishing £ 5 . 4 billion . these cost also include a whopping £ 1 . 2 billion to pay for the implementation of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which , let we not forget , have not even be implement yet . we also know that , should the Government manage to be able to realise their fever dream of send asylum seeker rather than Home Secretaries to Rwanda , the first 300 will cost an astonishing £ 570 million and account for just 1 % of the 30 , 000 asylum seeker who cross the channel in small boat last year . that work out at almost £ 2 million per asylum seeker . just let that sink in : £ 2 million of british taxpayer ' money to send one asylum seeker to Rwanda . the country know it , this House know it , the Home Secretary know it , and the Minister know it : the Rwanda scheme be the bad value for money policy in history . the Conservatives will point to the asylum seeker cross the channel . it be correct to say that more than 100 , 000 have make that perilous journey since 2018 , which be when the conservative party start to well and truly lose control of our border . it be also correct to say that , of that 100 , 000 , a staggering 40 , 000 have cross since the current Prime Minister be appoint by default , which tell we all we need to know about his vacuous " stop the boat " pledge and how it be go . labour be clear that tackle the Tory boat chaos can not be achieve through headline - chase gimmick , such as the Rwanda plan , which just absorb vast amount of money , time and resource . instead , we need a laser - like focus on practical common - sense measure that get the job do , which be why Labour have set out a detailed plan to smash the criminal smuggler gang that be run Britain ' s border and trading in human misery . if this government can not restore order to the border , then the next Labour Government will , but the fact be that the asylum backlog have already grow fourfold even before the small boat start come in large number . it be the Conservative Government ' s decision to downgrade the seniority of asylum decision maker in 2013 that lead to the backlog spiral , due to slow , poorer - quality decision making and large number of appeal , plus high staff turnover , result in the total chaos that we be now see . let we not forget that the Government have an estate of more than 50 , 000 relatively cost - effective asylum bed that keep the system within budget , but the use of nearly 400 hotel last year to house as many as 56 , 000 asylum seeker at any one time have send cost through the roof . accord to the House of Commons Library , spend on asylum hotel and support have increase by an astonishing 733 % in the past five year alone . that be what happen when we try to cut corner and cost : we end up pay 10 time as much in the long term , clear up the mess that we have make . it be the definition of a false economy . Labour have a plan to clear the backlog within one year by surge the number of caseworker , thus save the taxpayer £ 2 billion in hotel bill . we will also create a new return unit , with 1 , 000 immigration enforcement officer , to remove people from safe country who have fail in their asylum claim . those be the key pillar of our plan for a firm , fair and well - manage asylum system . of course Britain face a force migration challenge cause by increase geopolitical turbulence and the proliferation of authoritarian regime , with violence and persecution spread across the world , but the Government have utterly fail to rise to that challenge . successive Home Secretaries have have ample opportunity since the small boat start come in large number in 2018 to work with our european partner and ally to end the vile trade of people smuggle in the channel , but rather than seek to engage constructively they have spend the last six year trash their working relationship with our european neighbour through their damaging rhetoric and frequent promise to break or ignore international law and treaty . the Government have trade hard graft , quiet diplomacy and common sense for unworkable legislation and headline - chase gimmick that be not base on reality and be therefore destine to fail . meanwhile , the public have be force to watch on helplessly as the criminal gang have take hold , with prosecution of people smuggler down a startling 34 % since 2010 . we be clear that co - operation with Europe be the only way to restore our border security . Labour have promise a cross - border police unit to go after the criminal gang upstream by forge a new security partnership with Europol base on intelligence sharing and joint work , pay for by redirect some of the vast sum of money that be be squander on the Rwanda shamble . give the central role that the Minister be play in all this , I have the follow question for he . the Prime Minister promise to end the use of hotel for asylum seeker by the end of last year . can the Minister therefore explain why , at the end of December , there be still more than 46 , 000 asylum seeker in hotel accommodation ? we now know that hundred of million of pound have be commit to the Rwandan Government as part of the Tories ' fail plan . can he tell I how much of that money the UK will get back if no flight take off ? can the Minister explain why the Rwanda money could not have be invest in border security instead ? do he truly believe that spend nearly £ 2 million on every person send to Rwanda , just to get " a few symbolic flight " off the ground — to quote a previous Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) — in an election year represent good value for taxpayer ' money ? do the Minister agree that Rwanda be the bad value for money policy in history ? the NAO reveal that the Home Office would spend £ 11 , 000 per person on flight to Rwanda . can the Minister explain why taxpayer be pay 11 time as much as a commercial flight would cost ? the failure of Home Office Ministers be not just impact on their own budget and overspend , but cause severe challenge for other Departments and for local council . as my right hon . friend the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee point out , a huge amount of the spending be be channel through overseas development assistance , which be have a huge impact on the amount of ODA available to spend in country that be generate large number of asylum seeker and in the neighbouring country . it be a lose - lose situation . the money that should be spend to address push factor be instead be spend on hotel bill in this country . will the Minister therefore set out whether he feel that use ODA in this way be a viable long - term strategy ? do he agree that that be the very definition of rob Peter to pay Paul , and that it be work against the strategic objective of ODA and against what any sensible government should be do to address the crisis in our asylum system ? the late estimate be part of a long - run and increasingly predictable pattern . the Home Office go cap in hand to the Treasury , ask for billion of pound , over and above what be already a multibillion - pound annual budget , to deal with a set of crisis entirely of the Government ' s own making . the Treasury then duly sign blank cheque after blank cheque to the Home Office , and yet still somehow manage to make matter bad . minister be try to claim that an alternative to Rwanda would somehow be more expensive , but the problem with that argument be that they be compare the Rwanda plan with the cost of do nothing ; they be not compare the Rwanda plan to labour ' s common - sense plan to go after the gang , to get removal back up and run , and to clear the backlog . the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border say : " it be not acceptable to spend £ 8 million a day in the asylum system . " — [ Official Report , 4 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 647 . ] that be £ 3 billion a year , and I could not agree more . it should not be necessary to remind he that it be on his party ' s watch that the cost of the asylum system have rocket tenfold since 2010 . that be why the Conservatives need to get out of the way , so that Labour can restore order at our border and fix this broken and unaffordable Tory asylum system . let we have that general election , and let we have it now . I start , as other right hon . and hon . member have do , by pay tribute to and praise the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , which be reportedly the most effective Select Committee in town — I will come back to that point . seriously , she do an important and vital job . I gently suggest a couple of thing . it be sad to see that the right hon . Lady be so lonely , sit on her own on the Labour Benches . the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) make that point — it be nice to agree with he on something , at least . with due respect to she , however , the right hon . Lady have carry out her role forensically and with diligence , as she always do . occasionally , the right hon . Lady be critical of those on the Government Front Bench . that be part of her role , so she be entitle to be , but I will gently push back on her accusation about transparency and say what a pleasure it be to appear before her Committee within hour of be appoint to this role , alongside the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) . in fact , my hon . friend enjoy his experience so much that he be back in the Committee this week . from the report I have see , it be a genuinely constructive and instructive exchange between those on the Committee and those give evidence . before I turn to the detail set out by the Chair of the Select Committee , it be right to say that the Government need no reminding that taxpayer ' interest must come first and foremost when determine our approach to the asylum and immigration system . it be right to say that no one have do more than this government to shine a light on the overall cost and on the public money that be be spend , not least every day to house asylum seeker in hotel . I will come back in a few moment to the detail of that , but my hon . friend the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border have confirm that his pledge have be exceed : in fact , more than the 50 hotel that he have pledge would close have be close by the end of January . on Rwanda — again , I will come back to the detail shortly — it be right to say at this stage why the partnership be need . it be need because we can not go on with the situation where there be fatality in the channel . for the past eight consecutive month , people have die attempt to cross the channel . there be a moral case , a compassionate case , for say that we must stop the boat . that be the mission — it be my mission , and one that I be determined to carry out . do the Minister appreciate that those of we who question the Rwanda scheme be do so not because we do not think that the boat should be stop , but because we think that the Rwanda scheme be not the way to do that and do not provide value for money ? those be the issue that he need to address in the short time that he have leave — whether the Rwanda scheme be value for money . I will come back to the hon . and learn Lady ' s point — she make a series of point . she be right that she lead a Select Committee visit to Rwanda . I very much look forward to see the detail of that report . my point be that there be a moral and compassionate case for the Rwanda scheme , and if time allow , I will delve into the detail . if time do not allow , there will be further exchange on Monday , and doubtless in the future , about the Rwanda scheme . the hon . member for Glasgow North be kind enough to invite I to Glasgow , so let I turn to his contribution first — briefly , if I may . I endorse his point about there be no one on the Labour Benches . it be perhaps instructive as to where Labour Members ' priority be that not a single Back Bencher , other than the Chair of the Select Committee , be here in the Chamber to address what be , in my view , the single big global challenge face not just the United Kingdom , France and the EU , but the whole world . not a single other labour Back Bencher be here . the hon . Member speak powerfully on that point , and I agree with he entirely . I think it worth point out that the two other labour member of the Home Affairs Committee be represent Parliament at the United Nations woman ' s equality summit this week . I be sure that otherwise they would be here support we , like other member of the Committee . I be very grateful indeed to the right hon . Lady for that point , but there be Labour Members of Parliament other than those two — at the moment , in any event . once again , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Glasgow North for his point on that . let I say directly that , yes , I would love to come to Glasgow . he tease and tempt I with football . if I could perhaps encourage he to find a cricket team , I would certainly be willing to go up — my footballing skill be not as they once be . but seriously , I take he up on that offer and look forward to be there . I disagree with he on the Rwanda scheme ; he will not be surprised to hear I say so . I hope that I have the chance today — and , if not , on Monday — to set out more detail on that . the hon . member for Glasgow North have an exchange with the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) about the plea to allow illegal migrant to work in this country . I disagree fundamentally on that point . it will be interesting to see whether the Labour Front Benchers pick up on that and accept it as their policy . it be not my policy ; it be not our policy . the point that I be make be that , unlike other country , we do not encourage and rapidly allow asylum seeker and those grant asylum to work upon arrival . we lose an awful lot of skill from a great number of people who could make a huge contribution to our life and our economy . we spend a great deal of money prevent they from work . we could change the attitude and the approach on that . I understand the right hon . member ' s point ; I disagree with it fundamentally . that would be not a deterrent but the opposite of a deterrent : it would be a pull factor and an encourage factor . I would be very interested to see whether the Labour party adopt that policy — so far , it have be pretty silent on its plan , but it sound like that may well be one of they . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) for her thoughtful and consider remark . she rightly praise the Chair of the Select Committee , but I also praise my right hon . friend for her diligence and for be in the Chamber for such an important debate . her expertise in Treasury matter and in Home Affairs matter have come together during the course of this debate , and the Chamber be grateful for her contribution . I agree with she about the Nationality and Borders Act , and again pay tribute to she for take that Act through Parliament . I will reflect on her point , particularly in relation to the one - stop shop , which I know be something she have champion . I also agree with my right hon . friend about the overall deterrent effect . she rightly mention technology and border and the Downer review . she will , I hope , be reassure to hear that progress be be make , although perhaps not as fast as she would like — she will know of my impatience on this subject as well . we will , and must , crack on with that . as for the money go to Rwanda , she be right : it be an economic , migration and development partnership , as the Home Secretary have set out . that money be go to support thing like education , healthcare , agriculture and infrastructure , and I know that my right hon . friend will welcome that . the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) move her amendment . I encourage hon . member to disagree with that amendment — I do not think we should be spend less money in this area . my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) rightly pose challenge : what do we do with those who be here irregularly and have have their asylum case reject , but who we can not return to Iran or Eritrea ? that question have be pose time and again to Opposition Members , and answer come there none . the third country scheme — the Rwanda scheme — be the answer to that challenge , which be why I be so determined to see it through . I be sure we will have further exchange on that question as the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill return to the House and go through ping - pong next week . I also thank and praise my hon . friend for his diligence on the Home Affairs Committee over the past 10 year . although he may be superficially charming , he be as challenge to Government Front Benchers as the Opposition Members be , if not more challenging ; certainly when he get his pen out and ask those detailed question , minister have to make sure that they be at the ready . he have rightly challenge the french partnership , and I agree with he . I know that the Select Committee have be out to France to see the work that be take place there . that work be increase , more french personnel be now deploy , and that be begin to have an effect . he will have see the reduction in number from last year : crossing be down by 36 % . we must reduce those number far and redouble our effort . my hon . Friend also ask challenge question about the backlog . the direct answer be that the backlog stand at 95 , 252 as of the end of December and be down by 28 % . we must increase that downward trajectory , and we must increase the upward trajectory in the number of caseworker and decision maker . over 2 , 500 be in place , and I pay tribute to each and every one . I must , in due deference , give time to the Chair of the Select Committee to wind up in the final few minute . we will return to the subject of Rwanda on Monday , but I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North for her forensic approach and for bring this debate to the Chamber of the House of Commons . there will be further debate on Monday ; it will be nice to hear more detail — or a detail — of what Labour have to offer in this area , because so far it have nothing to offer at all . this have be an excellent debate at which member of the Home Affairs Committee have be well represent , include the deputy Chair , the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , and the spokesperson for the SNP , the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , who be a very value member of the Committee . the former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , have speak , as have the Chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) . the key theme that I want the Minister to take away , which almost every speaker refer to , be the lack of transparency from the Home Office . that be the issue that I want the Minister and his colleague to address . Parliament be not a rubber stamp for whatever the Home Office wish to do ; it have to be accountable to the Home Affairs Committee and to Parliament more generally . I look forward to future meeting of the Committee where minister come equip with all the information that be necessary for our Committee to carry out effective scrutiny on behalf of the House . question defer ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . I be now require to put the Questions necessary — [ interruption . ] the Clerks be wonder if it be 5 o ' clock yet . it be not quite 5 o ' clock , but by the time I say this it will be . I be now require to put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the estimate set down for consideration this day . the Deputy Speaker put the deferred question ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . department for Education Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Department for Education : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 20 , 997 , 648 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 500 , ( 2 ) the resource authorise for capital purpose be reduce by £ 304 , 572 , 000 as so set out , and ( 3 ) the sum authorise for issue out of the Consolidated Fund be reduce by £ 912 , 367 , 000 . Home Office Question put , amendment ( a ) : that resource for use for current purpose be reduce by £ 740 , 850 , 000 relate to asylum and migration . Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Marion Fellows Richard Foord George Galloway Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Chris Law David Linden John McNally Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Peter Grant Gavin Newlands Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam cat Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Richard Foord Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Robert Goodwill James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Lia Nici Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Michael Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson the House divide : Ayes 36 , Noes 220 . question accordingly negative . resolve , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Home Office : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 5 , 302 , 799 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 500 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 578 , 474 , 000 , be authorise for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 3 , 400 , 000 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . the Deputy Speaker then put the Questions on the outstanding estimate ( Standing Order no . 55 ) . with the leave of the House , I will put the Questions on motion 2 to 5 together . estimate 2024 - 25 ( Navy ) Vote a Resolved , that , during the year end with 31 March 2025 , a number not exceed 39 , 650 all rank be maintain for Naval and Marine Service and that number in the Reserve Naval and Marines Forces be authorise for the purpose of Parts 1 , 3 , 4 and 5 of the Reserve Forces Act 1996 up to the maximum number set out in Votes a 2024 - 25 , HC 529 . estimate 2024 - 25 ( Army ) vote a Resolved , that , during the year end with 31 March 2025 , a number not exceed 97 , 710 all rank be maintain for Army Service and that number in the Reserve Land Forces be authorise for the purpose of Parts 1 , 3 , 4 and 5 of the Reserve Forces Act 1996 up to the maximum number set out in Votes a 2024 - 25 , HC 529 . estimate 2024 - 25 ( air ) vote a Resolved , that , during the year end with 31 March 2025 , a number not exceed 35 , 800 all rank be maintain for Air Force Service and that number in the Reserve Air Forces be authorise for the purpose of Parts 1 , 3 , 4 and 5 of the Reserve Forces Act 1996 up to the maximum number set out in Votes a 2024 – 25 , HC 529 . estimate , Excesses 2022 - 23 [ relevant document : Eighteenth Report of the Committee of Public Accounts , Excess Votes 2022 - 23 , HC 589 . ] resolve , that , for the year end with 31 March 2023 , resource , not exceed £ 946 , 445 , 000 , be authorise to make good excess for use for current purpose as set out in the statement of Excesses 2022 – 23 , HC 502 . supplementary estimate 2023 - 24 Question put , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 3 , 319 , 371 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 447 , HC 500 , HC 531 , HC 533 , HC 575 and HC 587 , ( 2 ) the resource authorise for capital purpose be reduce by £ 11 , 316 , 268 , 000 as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 8 , 456 , 085 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Nigel Huddleston . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam cat Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Robert Goodwill James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Lia Nici Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Michael Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Peter Grant Gavin Newlands Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Marion Fellows George Galloway Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Chris Law David Linden John McNally Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson the House divide : Ayes 218 , Noes 35 . question accordingly agree to . estimate , vote on Account 2024 - 25 Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2025 : ( 1 ) resource , not exceed £ 373 , 672 , 234 , 000 be authorise , on account , for use for current purpose as set out in HC 446 , HC 501 , HC 549 , HC 574 , HC 576 , HC 586 and HC 615 , ( 2 ) resource , not exceed £ 98 , 840 , 640 , 000 , be authorise , on account , for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a sum , not exceed £ 386 , 454 , 679 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund , on account , and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Mike Wood . ) order , that a Bill be bring in upon the foregoing resolution ; that the Chairman of Ways and Means , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Laura Trott , Nigel Huddleston , Bim Afolami and Gareth Davies bring in the Bill . Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Bill Presentation and First read Nigel Huddleston accordingly present a Bill to Authorise the use of resource for the year end with 31 March 2023 , 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2025 ; to authorise the issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund for those year ; and to appropriate the supply authorise by this Act for the year end with 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2024 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 183 ) . St Peter ' s Hospital , Maldon Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) it be a pleasure to have a fellow Essex member in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also welcome my hon . friend the Minister , and I be glad to see my constituency neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) — on the opposite side of the River Crouch — and my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . she and I share the Maldon district between we , and we be work very closely on an issue that be of huge importance to both my constituent and her . St Peter ' s Hospital in Maldon be a much - love community hospital . it have be deliver care since the NHS be found , but the building itself be a former workhouse and be more than 150 year old . we have know for some time that the building have significant problem , although , thank to the dedication of the staff , the quality of care have be superb . there be significant challenge , which have become bad over time . the hallway be too narrow for stretcher , the floor have not be able to take the weight of the bed , the lift have repeatedly break down , and there be leak roof , asbestos and potentially even a risk of legionnaire ' disease . while money have be spend over the year to maintain the building and keep it go , it have long be recognise that a new purpose - build facility be need , either on the present site or in a different location . that have be the subject of debate and discussion for a number of year . in 2003 , the annual report of the Maldon and South Chelmsford Primary Care Trust state that two preferred site have be identify , that a provisional outline business case approval have be give , and that the new build be schedule to open at some time towards the end of 2007 . it never happen . there be difficulty with establish ownership of part of the land off Limebrook Way , where it be due to be site . since then , we have have a succession of study and debate about what a new hospital should offer and whether it should be a health hub . most recently , plan be be draw up for a new site to be develop to the west of Maldon , on Wycke Hill . however , this proposal become stuck due to the lack of sufficient funding for the access road , and a reduction in the contribution available from the developer and from the section 106 money for the housing be develop nearby . to meet the anticipated winter pressure , it be announce in August last year that the in - patient bed would be relocate to Brentwood and Rochford , and the birthing unit transfer to St Michael ' s Hospital in Braintree . we be tell that these change be only temporary while long - term solution be find . despite that , the Mid and South Essex integrate care board announce in January that it be propose to make the change permanent and that the out - patient service at St Peter ' s would be relocate elsewhere , allow the building to be eventually close . the proposal be subject to a consultation , which have recently be extend to 4 April . the ICB say that 2 , 600 of its survey have already be return . over 400 people attend a public meeting that I organise with the mayor of Maldon , Councillor Andrew Lay , and another 100 have to be turn away . I have also receive nearly 700 email response to my own survey , and I be currently distribute across the constituency 25 , 000 leaflet contain a survey . it be already clear that my constituent be unanimous in want to see medical service continue in the town . they also believe that the consultation be a cosmetic exercise , with decision already take . I have to say that this belief be reinforce by the fact that the two alternative option present for the in - patient bed currently in St Peter ' s both involve close the ward in the hospital and move they elsewhere . the Maldon district be grow steadily . we have something like 3 , 000 house currently under construction in Maldon and Heybridge , with another 1 , 500 across the district . demand for NHS service be rise steadily , with the GP to patient ratio already one of the bad in the country . rather than close NHS facility , we need more . in addition , Maldon district be geographically spread , with some village already half an hour ' s travel time from Maldon . the travel time to Broomfield , Braintree or Brentwood can be up to an hour or more from village such as Tillingham or Southminster in the Dengie peninsula , and the idea that an expectant mother in the early stage of give birth should have to travel an hour be appal . the ICB suggest last year that there be an average of just six birth per month at the maternity unit in St Peter ' s , but the unit be actually close for a large part of that time , because staff be send to Chelmsford . ten year ago , there be over 300 birth per year , and the population have grow steadily since that time . as one of the midwife write in response to the survey that I be conduct : " our unit have see 1000 ' s of birth over its 75 year , over the past 5 year we have have over a 1000 postnatal stay , mother who have birth at Broomfield , then need ongoing support come to stay with we , we have take readmission from the community with baby ' s not feed well , which in turn ward off a remission to Broomfield where bed be always in short supply . we do in excess of 50 community visit weekly , 80 + clinic appointment weekly , over 20 new booking a week , and anything between 5 - 10 appointment a day on our ward for anything extra … we be so much more than the ' 6 birth a month ' that be widely report and make we as a team so very angry and undervalue . " the availability of in - patient service and a maternity unit be of huge importance to my constituent , but it be the out - patient service on which thousand depend . there be some 80 , 000 out - patient appointment each year , with a huge range of specialty such as x - ray , blood test and ophthalmology . although , unlike my right hon . friend the Member for Witham , I have not use the birthing unit , I have receive physiotherapy at the hospital and be due to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm screen there in the next few week . I welcome the ICB ' s assurance that out - patient service will be maintain at St Peter ' s until alternative location in the town be find , but it be essential that they be maintain in Maldon without a break or cessation of service . it be not good enough simply to divide up the different service and to try to slot they into building across the town . we need the new hospital or health hub that have be promise for so long . we have see the new hospital at Braintree and the expansion of Broomfield and Southend , but Maldon have be consistently overlook . it be announce in last week ' s Budget that the Maldon district be be allocate £ 5 million of levelling - up money for cultural project , which I welcome , but what my constituent want be not cultural project but a new hospital . Essex County Council and the district council have money set aside , but it be unlikely to be sufficient . I applaud the Government ' s continue investment in the NHS , of which we see further proof last week , but I ask the Minister to tell the Mid and South Essex ICB to think again and , rather than cut service , to maintain and expand they so that my constituent have the high - quality , easily accessible healthcare they deserve . rise — the right hon . Lady have not ask I , the Minister or the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) whether she can take part in the debate , but she can ask now . may I take part in the debate ? indicate assent . indicate assent . I have to observe the formality . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) on secure the debate , and I echo everything he say in illustrate the sorry and sad situation in which our constituent find themselves with regard to what be a much - love local hospital . naturally , we both speak from our personal experience , but it be fair to say that both he and my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) will have receive hefty mailbag of angry correspondence from our constituent who believe that the ICB ' s consultation be effectively a slippery slope to permanent closure and the run down of service after last summer ' s announcement , which we clearly do not support . it be right that we stand up for our constituent . I reiterate and echo the point raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon , particularly on the incredible maternity and birthing facility . nurse from the facility be present at the public meeting hold in Witham on Monday evening , and I emphasise the due diligence , care and compassion they provide not just in the birthing unit but in the wide community . the support that the facility give to new mother be echo by everyone in that public meeting . the reality be that Essex be a very large county , and relocate these service be simply not good enough because of the time it take to travel to the alternative facility , and public transport be not available . I emphasise that Maldon be a grow district in both our constituency ; the Westcombe Park development in Heybridge straddle my right hon . friend ' s constituency and mine , and it now have more than 1 , 000 home under development . the current local plan run until 2029 and will see the development of another 5 , 000 home . it be simply unsustainable that we have a proposal to close St Peter ' s Hospital and relocate service elsewhere in Essex , because we can guarantee that in future year there will be call to stand up those local medical facility again . that be why , as my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon say , we must have new facility in Maldon town , and they have to be future - proof to meet grow need . finally , it be vital that we recognise the overall impact of an age and grow population . we have to provide the right kind of medical facility and give our constituent the assurance that whatever happen with their health , they can have health provision on their doorstep . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) for secure this important debate about the future of NHS service for his constituent . I know that St Peter ' s Hospital , which have a long history of deliver local NHS service , be close to his heart and those of many people in his area . he speak of the dedication of the staff who have work there over the year and of many debate about the future . I welcome his sustained effort to bring together stakeholder and ensure that his constituent ' voice be hear . we also hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) ; she , too , make sure that her constituent ' voice be hear in this place . it be not the first time that she have raise this matter with I . I want to assure both my right hon . friend that the Government believe that NHS reconfiguration should be locally lead , and base on clinically evidence decision . any decision about St Peter ' s will reflect our commitment to invest in health and care service for Maldon and Mid and South Essex . let I start by reiterate that no decision have be make on the future of St Peter ' s , and that a local consultation will run until 4 April 2024 . as my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon be aware , the local NHS be concern that the hospital do not meet the require standard for service because of issue with the age , condition and suitability of its building . indeed , he speak about that a moment ago . St Peter ' s be build as a victorian workhouse and have deteriorate in recent year . that make the building costly to maintain and it would be expensive to refurbish . the cost of get the facility up to the standard need be estimate at more than £ 18 million . the St Peter ' s site have also struggle to staff service properly , despite the increase in the NHS workforce in the past few year . when the birthing unit be at St Peter ' s , it have to be periodically close due to staff shortage , and there be also clinical safety concern about the isolation of the unit ; there be no other 24 - hour service in the building . I hear my right hon . friend explain that in the past there have be more than 300 birth a year in the maternity unit , and I believe that my right hon . friend the Member for Witham have her baby there . I understand that stroke rehabilitation service in Essex community hospital be not currently staff in line with national good practice for specialist stroke unit . I be sure that my right hon . friend ' constituent want service not only on the doorstep , but to be staff to provide the good possible care . that will be crucial , be it for mother give birth and their new baby , or for patient recover from a stroke , for whom get the right rehabilitation can make a huge difference to future quality of life . that be why way to treat and care for patient and well equip facility with the right level of specialist staff be be consider by the integrate care board . I understand that other location in and around Maldon be be consider by the ICB for the other patient service provide at St Peter ' s ; this will keep service such as out - patient appointment close to the current location . it be crucial that the ICB get a full understanding of how these proposal will affect local people — of whether expect standard be meet , not only of care , but of access . People usually understand that they may need to travel to get to a more specialised service , but it be essential that the service that people need be accessible . as well as consider patient , the ICB must consider family , carer , who need to be able to visit , and of course staff . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham emphasise the size and scale of Essex , and both she and my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon speak of house building and the grow population in the area , which clearly need to be take into account by the ICB . I have be assure that the local NHS be engage and seek to understand the view of resident before make any final decision . when that decision be make , the ICB must clearly set out how a decision will benefit the constituent of my right hon . friend and people in the wide area . I understand that my right hon . friend be concerned about the adequacy of local consultation on the propose change . I be assure by the local NHS that multiple event be be hold to discuss the proposal , and at least three have already take place in Maldon . as we hear early , public meeting have already be hold , involve my right hon . friend the Member for Witham . almost 3 , 000 people have already complete the online survey since 25 January . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Witham for raise the closure of St Peter ' s in a Westminster Hall debate early ; my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon raise it in oral question the other day . I be glad to hear that the NHS will consider the result of a survey undertake by my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon , and that those view will be feed into any decision . the local NHS be give people more time to come forward , and this week it announce an extension to the consultation by an additional two week . Mid and South Essex be already one of the good part of the country for the NHS get patient back home and to appropriate care setting to recover from a stay in hospital . that strong performance have be support by Government investment . that include significant capital funding of £ 20 million for accident and emergency across 2020 - 21 and 2021 - 22 ; £ 18 million for the target investment fund in 2021 - 22 and 2022 - 23 ; and £ 7 million for a community diagnostic centre across the same two year . we have invest £ 61 million in operational capital in 2023 - 24 , and £ 182 million across the 2023 spending review , which can be use for capital project and work . I be sure that my right hon . friend will be in no doubt about the Government ' s commitment to the health of their constituent . I can also assure my right hon . friend that we have now deliver on our manifesto commitment for 50 million more general practice appointment per year , with nearly 370 million appointment book across the last 18 month . our primary care recovery plan be make it quick and easy for patient to get the help that they need from primary care . on facility for GPs in Maldon , integrate care board have delegate responsibility for commission primary care service and can prioritise capital funding for an essential system of allocation to invest in primary care estate as need . in closing , I thank my right hon . friend the Members for Maldon , and for Witham , for speak in the debate and focus our attention on healthcare in Essex , specifically on the future of St Peter ' s Hospital . they have both do an excellent job of ensure that the view of their constituent be hear , and I have no doubt that they will continue to do so . I be very much look forward to meet they to discuss in great detail the question we debate today . I be confident that the local NHS have be listen , and I know the importance of St Peter ' s to the area . any change in NHS service must be make with the utmost sensitivity to local view . question put and agree to . House adjourn .