it be an honour to have be elect to represent Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey , which be something of an amalgam of a couple of previous constituency . first , I would like to thank the electorate of the constituency for send I to this place to represent they and for put their trust in I for the year to come . on my arrival here , an amazing job have be do by the House staff , the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority and other , and I can not thank they enough for the welcome that they have provide we as new mp . I have a number of predecessor that I need to thank , not least because it be nearly two constituency roll into one . first of all there be Douglas Ross , who represent Moray for the Conservatives for several recent year . we be not very close on the political spectrum , it have to be say , but there be a number of occasion where we do come together across party for the benefit of the constituency and the wide region , notably in the achievement of the growth deal for Moray and to maximise the spend that we get on that . I be sure the official opposition would also want to thank he for his service in the Scotland Office . my predecessor in Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey be Drew Hendry , who be a regular contributor from the Scottish National party Benches . he represent we as an Opposition spokesperson on the economy , trade , foreign affair , business , enterprise and investment , and transport over several term as an MP for that area . he be also an assiduous campaigner on energy poverty , which be a particular issue for the highland and island and in Moray . I hope that energy regulation be one of the area that the Government ' s commission on poverty will look at very seriously . my right hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , the leader of the SNP in this place , mention the two - child cap . I will not go into too much detail on that because it have already be well cover , but energy poverty be a critical issue for many family throughout the highland and Moray . bring in a social tariff , for example , would certainly make a big difference to family right across the highland . other predecessor have include several well - know parliamentarian . Labour Members will , I be sure , be pleased to know that my constituency be the birthplace of Ramsay MacDonald , and it have also be represent very ably by several notable SNP mps over the year . one of the most famous be Winnie Ewing , who reconvene the Scottish Parliament in 1999 and also represent the area in the Scottish Parliament , in this place and in Europe . her daughter - in - law , Margaret Ewing , be an assiduous campaigner on poverty issue and will be well known to old member of the House — or long - serve member of the House be perhaps more parliamentary . more recently there be Angus Robertson , who lead the party in this place for a good number of year and be now a Cabinet Secretary in the Scottish Government . we can take a quick stroll through Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . it go from the white sand of Lossiemouth , Burghead and Nairn right up to the Cairngorms peak . it have the city of Elgin in it , which have now be establish as a cathedral city for 800 year ; it be celebrate the 800th anniversary of the cathedral be establish there . the constituency have the Speyside town of rothe , Aberlour and Dufftown . Dufftown , of course , be build on seven still rather than seven hill . in the Badenoch and Strathspey town we get Grantown , Aviemore , Newtonmore and Kingussie among other . we have surf , skiing and mountain biking . there be a mountain railway , and we have a national park and a major wildlife park with everything from pine marten to polar bear . move back up to the coast , in Ardersier we have the green freeport . the Scottish Government have work closely with the UK Government on that , and I be sure they will continue to do so . the green freeport be incredibly important to we in Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . it be project to have 3 , 500 job within 10 year , and it will be vital for just transition . that will need careful scrutiny over the come year . tourism , the labour market and affordable housing be major issue , particularly in the Badenoch and Strathspey area . business have difficulty with staffing . they be often open only four or five day instead of seven . there be not really any significant unemployment — it be about 2 % to 3 % . there may be some room for get more employment from the local labour market , but fundamentally the big impact on the labour market there have be Brexit . immigration in that part of the world be a really significant issue , in that there be not enough of it . we have difficulty staff care home , the NHS and many business , which be fight over the same labour population . we have iconic food , drink and fashion brand , include Walker ' s Shortbread and Baxters , not to mention the 49 distillery that produce malt whisky and the numerous other distillery that produce gin and vodka . there be also a number of brewery . we contribute extremely significantly to the Exchequer , and it be really important that we get some of that back . we also have three military basis . Fort George currently host the Black Watch — the 3rd Battalion , Royal Regiment of Scotland . kinloss barrack be home to 39 Engineer Regiment , and RAF Lossiemouth be home to Typhoon , Poseidon and arrive Wedgetail squadron . the welfare of service personnel and veteran be absolutely vital , and it be something I will raise frequently in the House . civilian aerospace and space be the other major emerge sector . Orbex in Forres employ well over 100 people , and it will be do vertical launch from Sutherland and the SaxaVord spaceport . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) will have to forgive I , but its headquarters be , in fact , in Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . finally there be agriculture . crofter and hill farmer base in Badenoch and Strathspey in the Cairngorms national park face particular challenge . we also have arable and the pork sector in the laich of Moray , where there be again employment challenge that need to be tackle . Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey be the fifth large constituency , and it take more than two hour to drive end to end , but what a drive it be — I would recommend it to anybody . I look forward to represent the people live and work the length and breadth of my constituency . I agree wholeheartedly . the work that the right hon . Member and I carry out throughout the last Parliament be an example of how we can work co - operatively with member of opposite party and find those issue on which we can serve our constituent well . he join we at an opportune moment , as I be about to talk about an issue that be close to his heart . my final urgent request of the Government be one of moral duty : to recognise , support and compensate our nuclear testing veteran and their family . these be the man who put their life at risk in dangerous atomic weapon test to ensure our long - term security . for decade , campaigner , Labrats , veteran and their family , and the indefatigable Susie Boniface have be fight for recognition for these hero . they have highlight scientific study that show increase rate of miscarriage , increase birth defect , and the same rate of genetic damage as clean - up worker at Chernobyl . of course , the campaigner take pride in the fact that the Defence Secretary and the Prime Minister meet they when Labour be in opposition , and support their campaign to receive the long overdue recognition they deserve . but despite win the campaign for medallic recognition , the UK sadly still remain the only nuclear power that refuse they adequate compensation , research and support , unlike the US , France , Canada and Australia . medal criterion be very limited , there have not be a formal recognition event and even access to war pension have be impede . veteran , and sometimes their wife , widow and descendant , have report make repeat request to gain access to their blood or urine testing record from sample the veteran recall be take during the nuclear testing programme . sadly , many confirm that their service medical record frequently do not include the test result , and they just do not understand why . the data be vital for their war pension application and for understand the condition they suffer , but sadly the absence of such record mean that many veteran ’ war pension application be refuse . I want to place on record my thank to hon . member right across the House who have continue to support these veteran , particularly the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , who have work closely with I and campaigner in recent year . this week , we have both write to the Defence Secretary and the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , request that they urgently meet we , veteran and campaigner , and work with we to deal with their concern . we hope that be make an urgent priority , because ultimately the Government can and should deliver justice for these family , and now be the right time to do so .