Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Personal Independence Payment : disabled People what step her Department be take to support disabled people in receipt of personal independence payment . personal independence payment be a crucial benefit that make a contribution towards the extra cost of live with a disability . I know how anxious many people be when there be talk about reform , but this Government want to ensure that PIP be there for people who need it now and into the future . in our Green Paper we promise to review the PIP assessment , work with disabled people , the organisation that represent they and other expert , and we be start the first phase of that review today . my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability will be invite in stakeholder this week to develop the scope and term of reference of this review , and will keep the House update as this work progress . many of the 41 , 000 disabled people in Bradford who rely on PIP to live with dignity and stability be rightly horrify by these propose cut . in particular , the four - point rule have the potential to devastate the life of ten of thousand of people in Bradford overnight . let we be clear : these plan would take away a vital lifeline from those with the great need live in the most deprived area of Britain . I can not support any cut that worsen inequality in place such as Bradford , so I say to the Minister in absolute sincerity : please listen to the grow call in this place and out there to scrap these unfair cut and instead do the right thing by tax the super - rich so that they can pay their fair share . I hear very clearly what my hon . Friend say , but I also want to be clear to the House : if people can never work , we want to protect they ; if people can work , we want to support they . the truth be that a disabled person who be in work be half as likely to be poor as one who be out of work . we want to improve people ' s chance and choice by support those who can work to do so and by protect those who can not . the personal independence payment do what it say on the tin : it be design to enable people to live an independent life . as someone who have represent constituent in tribunal appeal , I know only too well that , while there be many who should not be claim PIP , there be also many whose disability may not be immediately apparent . will the Minister assure I that she will use the utmost care and sensitivity before take any further decision ? I can absolutely reassure the right hon . Gentleman that we will make these change carefully . we be consult with disabled people and the organisation that represent they about what support can be available for anyone who lose out . we will be consult with disabled people about how to build our £ 1 billion a year employment support programme , and we will make sure that those who can never work will be protect , include by make sure that they do not have to go through reassessment repeatedly , which have be the situation so far . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s confirmation that there will be a full review of PIP in consultation with disabled people and their organisation . PIP be design 13 year ago , but since then we have increase our understanding of the impact that fluctuate condition and mental health problem can have on disabled people ' s ability to live independently . do the Secretary of State agree that it be certainly past time for a review of the PIP system to ensure that mental health problem be fully understand and that the fluctuate nature of some condition be properly take into account ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be more than a decade since PIP be introduce , and there have be change in the prevalence of disability , in the nature of long - term condition , in wide society and in the workplace too . we have also see a real increase in recent year in the number of young people and those with mental health condition , so it be right that we now have a review of the PIP assessment process . this be a highly sensitive issue , and it will take time , but my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability and I will be do this in consultation with disabled people and the organisation that represent they , and we will begin invite they in from this week . I also very much hope that all member of Parliament can feed into this process , include with the organisation in their own constituency . the Secretary of State will be aware of our concern around the change and the damage they could do to the most vulnerable . she will also be aware of the implication for the Scottish Government who administer this . will she at least give I the assurance that the full detail about how the change will interact with devolve power will come before a vote be bring to this Chamber ? my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability be work closely with all the devolve administration to ensure that the change work in every part of the country . I also say to Opposition Members that we want to ensure that disabled people in Scotland have the same right , chance and choice to get into work , stay in work and get on in their work , so I hope the hon . Member will be keen to work with we on those issue , too . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in my constituency , more than 3 , 000 people be set to lose the lifeline that be PIP . when we look at other element of the Green Paper , 3 . 2 million family across the country be set to lose out . often , those who benefit from PIP be from the most deprived community in the United Kingdom , and those be set to be hit hard . will the Secretary of State advise how the Government be consider the economic impact of the cut on these community with high level of deprivation ? the hon . Gentleman ' s figure be the number of people right now who may have few than four point on PIP . these change be not come in overnight — they would not be implement until November next year — and many people ' s health condition change , so it be not right to say that that be the exact number who would lose out . we want to ensure that anyone who do lose out have their eligible care and health need meet , as well as have the employment support they need . we know that many disabled people want to work . they have too often be deny opportunity to get into work , and this Government want to change that . education , Employment and Training Support : Makerfield what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in Makerfield constituency . it be an unacceptable part of the conservative legacy that almost 1 million young people be out of work or education and have little hope of a good start in life . that be why , as part of the plan to get Britain work , we will create a guarantee for all young people age 18 to 21 in England to ensure they have access to high - quality training or an apprenticeship , or have help to find work . that plan will be vital to young people everywhere , include in Makerfield ' s town . in the town I represent , the large type of private employment be the trade . bricklayer , plumber , electrician — these be the people who build our nation ' s future and on whom our future security and prosperity depend . they be the work people the Labour party be create to represent . what be the Minister do to ensure that more young people get into the trade , in particular partnering with local technical college like our in Wigan and Leigh ? I thank my hon . friend for that question because , as the Prime Minister say , we be the party of the builder . as my hon . Friend say , the Labour party be create to serve the simple principle that work - class people could run the country . the Department for Education be work closely with college and with we in the Department for Work and Pensions to create construction foundation apprenticeship from this August , which will give many more young people the tool they need for a career in the trade . that be in addition to DWP support for employer , which we have recently expand specifically with those trade he mention in mind . the rule and regulation that apply to employment , education or training in the Makerfield constituency should apply across this great United Kingdom . many of those in the construction sector that the Minister refer to , whether they be builder , carpenter , plumber , plasterer or electrician , come from my constituency of Strangford across to London , so it be important that people in my constituency and across Northern Ireland get the same opportunity through the college . will the Minister ensure that discussion take place with Northern Ireland so that my constituency can continue to supply the people who build house here in London ? I pay tribute to all those from the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency who have be part of build our whole country . we work very closely with the devolved Administrations across the United Kingdom to ensure that , as the Secretary of State lay out , chance and opportunity be there for everybody . I look forward to work with the hon . Gentleman as we move forward through our change programme . young People not in Education , Employment or Training what step she be take to help support young people not in education , employment or training . our new change jobcentre will serve the whole of Great Britain . the change that we be bring forward will mean more personalised help for everyone , but especially young people . frontline work coach who help young people need well technology and more time to help they find the good opportunity . the goal of our change be to well serve employer and young people . in the pandemic , young people be among the least at risk , but they give up so much of their life to protect those who be at risk . no generation have make such a sacrifice for another since the war , but they have be badly let down : across the UK , one in eight be not in employment , education or training , and it be bad in Scotland , where the figure be one in six young scot . what step be the Minister take to mitigate the inaction of the SNP Scottish Government and build a well future for young scot ? as I just mention , our new jobcentre will create a universal service across Great Britain . we must make those change to serve young people . my hon . friend make an excellent point about the pandemic generation , who deserve much well from we all . I know that his city of Edinburgh be full of chance and opportunity that we can not let go to waste . give the role of Edinburgh and Glasgow in our visitor economy , I be sure that he will be interested in the work we be do with ukhospitality to help more young people to have an opportunity in that great sector . struggle to make end meet , pay bill , buy work appropriate clothing and pay for public transport all affect someone ' s ability to get and keep a job . that be just as true for under - 25s as it be for anybody else , but the Government continue to maintain a low rate of universal credit for young people when there be no guarantee that they have financial support from their family . in look at universal credit , will the Government consider that ? as the hon . Member will know , we be review universal credit . I be particularly focused on ensure that young people have a chance before they reach the age of 25 . if they be out of work in those first year after leave school or college , it be absolutely devastating for the rest of their career . that be why we be make these change . over the weekend I be shocked , but not surprised , to see the new statistic for young people in Thanet who be not in education , employment or training — have hit 11 . 6 % , the figure be the high in the south - east . some 3 % of young people in Thanet also experience support for special educational need . although I be not suggest that correlation equal causation , can the Minister explain how deny access to the health - relate element of universal credit will help those young people into work ? the House will know that we have consultation in a number of policy area relate to my hon . friend ' s question . as I have say , in the end , young people need an opportunity at the start . in place like Thanet , where there be significant poverty and challenge but great opportunity , I want to ensure that we serve employer , and the young people who need they , much well . employer in my constituency tell I that they be less likely to employ young people as a result of the Employment Rights Bill because of the increase risk of employ someone at the start of their career . what representation have the Minister make to her colleague to ensure that the most damaging part of that legislation be soften ? the House may know that , on come into office , the Secretary of State and I totally change the way the Department for Work and Pensions approach employer . we want to serve they much well , and we have give they a single point of contact . have meet many business over the past six or seven month , my experience have be that they have vacancy and want we to help fill they . we will do that so that we can serve employer and young people alike . personal Independence Payment assessment what step her Department be take to help increase the accuracy of personal independence payment assessment . the Department be commit to ensure that individual receive high - quality and accurate assessment . assessment supplier be closely monitor use a range of performance measure design to improve the accuracy of their advice . independent audits be conduct to maintain high standard , and as part of our pathway to work proposal we be consider record assessment as standard to increase transparency and build trust in the system . datum share with I by Dermot Devlin from disabled People against Cuts show that £ 50 million have be spend on PIP appeal in the past year alone , and also that his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service have report that over 70 % of those PIP appeal have be successful . when people be put through the harrowing process of be tell that their PIP appeal be not appropriate and have to go through the entire appeal system , what be minister do to ensure that any change make that system friendly to those use it ? I would be very happy to have a conversation with the hon . Gentleman about the assessment process and the mandatory reconsideration process , but I would also say to he that I do not recognise those statistic . indeed , under the current statistic , appeal be down by 16 % on the previous year to January 2025 . the other point that I would make to he be that while around 20 % of application be subject to a mandatory reconsideration , only around 5 % of those be successful . the Centre for Inclusive Living in Dudley , which support those with disability , and many resident have write to I to raise concern about the PIP entitlement criterion and assessment . what reassurance can my hon . friend give that this Government will protect those most vulnerable in society and that those with disability will be enable , not disabled ? I thank my hon . friend for raise her constituent ' concern and say to they that , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say at the beginning of this session , we have this week announce a broad review of the PIP assessment process that I hope in due course , and by work with stakeholder , will be able to give my hon . friend ' s constituent and stakeholder organisation considerable reassurance . can the Minister explain why it appear that telephone assessment for PIP have a significantly high success rate in application than face - to - face application ? I be not able to explain the reason for that difference , but I be able to reassure the right hon . Gentleman that we be look to move away from telephone appointment and return as quickly as possible to assessment make face to face wherever we be able to do so . can the Minister give we more information on what the PIP assessment review will look like ? as my hon . friend will appreciate , the review have only be announce today . there be a considerable number of strand to it that will be lead by my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability . what I can tell my hon . friend be that , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say early , that work be begin this week by reach out , as be entirely appropriate , to those stakeholder organisation , who will feed in to the purpose and scope of that work move forward . personal Independence Payment : Assessment Review what progress her Department have make on its review of the personal independence payment assessment system . as I say in response to an early question , it be over a decade since PIP be introduce and there have be significant shift in the nature of disability and long - term condition in this country , as well as change in wide society and the workplace . that be why our Green Paper announce our plan to review the PIP assessment , work with disabled people , the organisation that represent they , and other . we be start that work today , invite key organisation represent disabled people in to discuss the term of reference , which we will publish , and we will continue to keep the House update as our work progress . there have rightly be a lot of focus on the 250 , 000 people the Government ' s own impact assessment say will be push into poverty by this cruel disability benefit cut , but the true impact on poverty will be even bad . new DWP figure , obtain from a freedom of information request , show that 700 , 000 family already in poverty will be hit even hard . it be wrong that that have have to come out through a freedom of information request , so will the Minister come clean today about the true scale of poverty that this disastrous policy will cause ? do it not fly in the face of what a Labour Government be mean to do — lift people out of poverty , not push they far into poverty ? my hon . friend will know , as we have be very clear with the House , that those figure do not take into consideration the number of disabled people who we believe will find work through our big ever investment in employment support , pathway to Work . neither do they take into consideration the huge stride we will make with our forthcoming child poverty strategy . we have be more open and transparent than any previous Government , publish all the poverty impact and other detailed assessment , because we be very happy to have this debate in the House and to put forward our case . our mission be to get as many people as we can into work and on in their career , with more income and well choice and chance : that be what a Labour Government be for . my consistent , Louisa , write to I about her PIP assessment . she suffer from a number of debilitate fluctuating condition . her assessment take over two hour and the assessor ignore her explanation , do not ask how she feel afterwards and threaten to end the call when her word be misinterpret , which go against DWP guidance . will the Secretary of State undertake to review how fluctuating and invisible condition be handle in the assessment process ? yes , and I would really like the hon . Lady to send in that information and we will go through it with a fine - toothed comb . I would be interested to hear from the Secretary of State about what assessment she have make of the impact on public service , particularly adult social care , of the move to change personal independence payment . in my local authority , the director have say to I that she be deeply concerned about the additional cost and about move people into dependency , as their independence be remove . can the Secretary of State set out what assessment have be make and provide figure to demonstrate that ? our objective be to give disabled people more independence by ensure that those who can work have the support to do so . we have clear evidence that be in work be good for people ' s health : good work be good for people ' s physical and mental health . we be invest extra money into social care , include an additional £ 3 . 7 million this year , on top of the £ 26 billion extra for the NHS . I would be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss these issue far , as I know she be passionate about ensure that people have the help , care and support that they need and deserve . last Wednesday , the Prime Minister tell I that cut back on PIP eligibility be in line with post - war labour principle , but more and more Labour Members be say that that policy — balance the Government ' s book on the back of disabled people and those who care for they — be cruel and wrong in principle . will the Secretary of State tell we who be right ? I do not recognise the way the hon . Lady frame the Prime Minister ' s answer . we want a social security system that protect those who can never and will never work , but disabled people who be out of work and economically inactive be more likely than non - disabled people to say they want to work , and if they be in work , they be half as likely to be poor . we want to shift the focus of the system to do more to help people who can work to do so , and to protect those who can not , because that be the way that we give people a well future . education , Employment and Training : Kensington and bayswater what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in Kensington and bayswater constituency . as we have already discuss , every young person in this country need a good start . as part of our plan to get Britain work , we announce £ 45 million - worth of funding for eight youth guarantee trailblazer to lead the way . Kensington and Bayswater be cover by the youth guarantee trailblazer launch last month by the Greater London Authority . I recently visit the North Kensington jobcentre to learn about its support for young people and discuss the potential for work more closely with our brilliant local college , the North Kensington Centre for Skills , so that people can access opportunity in industry such as trade and housing . will the Minister outline what more the Department be do to bring together college and jobcentre for young people ? I thank my hon . friend both for his question and for go to see the team at the North Kensington jobcentre ; there be a really dedicated team of five work coach specifically for young people . I be work with colleague in the Department for Education on the development of Skills England so that in the future our work coach — for example , the five who serve his constituency and look after young people — will have much close access to get they into course and get they build to move our economy and their career on . the Government ' s own impact assessment of their Employment Rights Bill say that it will increase the cost to business by £ 5 billion , which will be bear mostly by small business . do the Minister share my concern that , when combine with the additional national insurance charge on employer , that will reduce the opportunity for young people in my constituency just as much as for young people in Kensington and bayswater ? I have say already in this session of question that we have change the DWP to serve employer much well , and that be an important shift . I understand that Conservative Members do not want people in this country to have great right at work , sick pay if they need it or secure hour if they be on an exploitative zero - hour contract . unfortunately for they , last year the public vote for the opposite . private pension pot : young People what step she plan to take to encourage young people to increase their private pension pot . this be an important question , and one where we have see some good news on the back of cross - party work over the last 15 year . automatic enrolment have succeed in transform participation rate in workplace pension , particularly for young people . participation among all eligible 22 to 29 - year - old have increase from 35 % to 86 % , but there be much more to do . that be why the second phase of our pension review will look at further step to improve pension outcome for everyone , include those lucky enough to be young . I thank the Minister for that response . thank to the introduction of auto - enrolment , million of young people be now save for their retirement , but I have hear worrying report in Mid Bedfordshire that increase in employer ' national insurance , which have result in pay freeze , be now cause people to decide to opt out of pension saving . do the Minister recognise that risk to pension adequacy ? if so , what be he do to address it ? Less than 1 % of saver actively opt out of save each month , but the hon . Gentleman be completely right to say that we need to remain vigilant and ensure that opt - out rate do not rise in the year ahead . there be some more volatility in opt - out rate during the pandemic , for reason that I be sure he will understand , but , as I say , we have be see those come down recently . I be happy to keep talk to he about that in the year ahead . if we want young people , include those in my constituency , to believe in the value of long - term investing , they need to see that their pension be help to build the country that they live in and be not just distant market . will the Minister set out what step he be take to ensure that the Government ' s pension reform encourage fund to invest more in UK infrastructure and hybrid company ? my hon . friend raise an important point . although we celebrate the success of auto - enrolment , as the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) have just do , we must complete the job . we need big and well pension fund that be well able to deliver return for their member , support our economy and invest in infrastructure and private asset in the month and year ahead . personal Independence Payment : Eligibility Criteria what estimate her Department have make of the potential impact of change to the eligibility criterion for personal independence payment on the number of people receive that payment who will move into employment . pathway to work set out reform to stop people fall into inactivity . they include tailor employment support for people out of work on health and disability ground , include those claim personal independence payment , so that they can fulfil their ambition like everybody else . the Government say that their PIP reform will help people into employment , but the Multiple Sclerosis Society say that 60 % of sufferer believe those reform will make it hard for they to find work , not easy . an estimate must have be make of what percentage of claimant will feasibly enter employment as a result of these reform . will the Minister share those figure ? this be a very important set of reform , for exactly that reason — to make sure people do have the opportunity to move into work . one in five working - age PIP claimant be in work in March last year ; we want many more to have that opportunity . we be go to improve employment support substantially , connect to Work be be roll out across the country this year , and there will be an additional £ 1 billion per year for employment support by the end of the Parliament . as the hon . Gentleman know , the impact of these change will be set out by the Office for Budget Responsibility at the time of the autumn Budget , and there will be very big improvement for those who be intend to benefit from they . help those who can work to find meaningful employment be an important way to tackle poverty among disabled people , but it will require investment in employment support programme , incentive for employer to recruit disabled people and enforcement of anti - discrimination rule . give the importance of these measure , be it not appropriate that member be ask to vote on any change to the benefit system only after all the information about the impact of the proposal have be provide ? my hon . friend be right about the scale of the ambition and the change that need to be make to deliver on it . Sir Charlie Mayfield be lead the Keep Britain Working review at the moment , look at what more employer can contribute to those goal . we have commit an extra £ 1 billion a year for employment support , but we need to get on with the change we have announce in order to ensure that the cost of PIP in particular be sustainable in the future , as it be very important they should be . I call the shadow Minister . it be six week since the Government cobble together an emergency plan for welfare cut to rescue the Chancellor from the consequence of her job - destroy , economy - shrink Budget , but we be still wait for some information . can the Minister tell the House how many more people will be in work as a result of these measure ? as I have just tell the House , the Office for Budget Responsibility will publish its assessment in the autumn — that be what we say at the time of the spring statement . this be a very big programme ; the commitment of an additional £ 1 billion a year to employment support will open up opportunity for a very large number of people , in the way that the new deal for disabled people do under the last Labour Government all those year ago . we want to get back to provide the support that people need . at the moment , 200 , 000 people who be out of work on health and disability ground say that they could be in work today if they have the support they need . we be committed to deliver that support . I look forward to the OBR ' s report , and also to its assessment of the impact of the Employment Rights Bill . we know that many ten of thousand of job be go to be lose because of the national insurance rise , and we know from the OBR that because of the change that the Government have introduce and the scrapping of the measure we be introduce , 16 , 000 few people will be in work and almost half a million more will be on long - term sickness benefit . however , let I ask the Minister about disability benefit . be he aware that half the number of people who receive PIP who have multiple sclerosis will no long be eligible for that benefit under the plan that the Government be bring forward ? a quarter of people with cerebral palsy and three quarter of people with arthritis will also be ineligible . be the Minister happy with that , and if not , what hope can he give the hundred of thousand of people who be be abandon that the Government will look after they ? the hon . Gentleman be completely mistaken . these change will not take effect until November next year and follow each claimant ' s award review after that date . who receive the benefit will depend on the outcome of the assessment at that time . as the hon . Gentleman will know , the view of the Office for Budget Responsibility be that about 10 % of those who be currently claim PIP will lose their benefit as a result of these change — a much low proportion than the one he have just refer to . Education , Employment and Training : Colne Valley what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in Colne Valley constituency . in Colne Valley , my hon . friend ' s constituent receive support from Huddersfield jobcentre . work be also ongoing lead by West Yorkshire combine authority , which be one of our trailblazer . it be step up to help everybody who need help get into work , whether or not they be on universal credit . recently , Kirklees college , in partnership with Flannery Plant Hire and Kirklees council , officially launch the Kirklees operator skill hub to meet local skill demand in the construction industry . the hub , which be the fifth of its kind in the country , be a mobile unit with two virtual - reality plant machinery simulator and classroom facility for skill bootcamp , and will open many door for young people in my constituency . do the Minister agree that such initiative will help many young people into work , and help we to bring about the growth that we need in our economy ? I do agree with my hon . friend . as we have say in response to a number of question , our ministerial team know that this Government be about build the home that we need and ensure that the job in the sector go to people who will really benefit from a career in construction , and I congratulate Kirklees college and all those involve in that pioneer work . last week I visit the UK Construction Week conference , where George Clarke talk about the fantastic opportunity in construction and the great building business . I say well do to everyone in my hon . friend ' s constituency who be push this forward . winter Fuel Payment : Means - test what assessment she have make of the potential impact of means - test the winter fuel payment on level of pensioner poverty . I refer the right hon . member to the Secretary of State ' s letter of 19 November to the Work and Pensions Committee . as well as mean - test the winter fuel payment , this Government launch the big ever pension credit take - up campaign , because we want all pensioner to receive the support to which they be entitle . the result have be almost 50 , 000 more award than be receive during the same period in the precede year . the Government do indeed launch a campaign to increase the number of pension credit application , but sadly there be also a surge — an increase of 133 % — in the number of claim that be not allow , and more than 100 , 000 award be not make . for many pensioner , include a number in my constituency , the winter fuel payment be a lifeline — indeed , many need their heating to be turn on throughout the year , not just during the winter — but just because of an arbitrary threshold they now receive nothing at all , and they be lose out . will the Government look at this again , give the impact and the risk of push more pensioner into poverty ? I can tell the right hon . member about pensioner poverty . it halve under the last Labour Government and it rise on the Conservatives ' watch , by 200 , 000 . yes , we have have to make some difficult choice , but it be because of those difficult choice that we can afford a £ 31 billion annual increase in the state pension over the current Parliament and an extra £ 26 billion a year for the NHS . none of those choice would the Conservatives back , which be why the NHS and the state pension would be endanger on their watch . in my 10 year as a Member of Parliament , I have run consistent campaign throughout my constituency to raise awareness of pension credit and encourage hundred of people to sign up to it , but I know that many of my constituent be just above the threshold and by no mean well off . what assessment will the Government make of those who be not eligible for pension credit but will still face fuel poverty next winter ? I be grateful for the work that have be do by council and third sector organisation throughout the United Kingdom to drive uptake of pension credit . that work have lead to the 50 , 000 extra award that I mention early . the choice we have make mean that we can protect pensioner across the board , and the 4 . 1 % increase in the state pension in April be possible exactly because of the tough choice that we have have to make . Stockport council be one of the first local authority to roll out the warm space programme that be use by third sector group to support people in need during the winter month . will the Government commit themselves to help authority roll such programme out early , in the face of the winter fuel cut and rise energy price ? I be grateful for the work of local authority , include mine in Swansea , to provide place for pensioner and , in fact , member of all age group to go to if they be in need during the winter . the most important action we can take be tackle directly the cause of the issue that the hon . Gentleman have raise by bring down energy bill in the year ahead , move away from the system that the Conservatives leave we — which be dependent on the price of gas drive by the action of dictator such as Putin — and continue to raise the state pension fast than inflation over the current Parliament , which be why the new state pension be set to increase by £ 1 , 900 by the end of this Parliament . this morning , the Work and Pensions Committee be at the Welsh Assembly , where we hear from Wales ' s old People ' s Commissioner as part of our pensioner poverty review . I be impressed that Wales have a role with real legal clout . from what we hear , it be make a difference for old people in Wales . do minister agree that we should at least look at extend that to England and Scotland ? we should always learn lesson from Wales . in fact , this Government be already do that . the roll - out of free breakfast club , which be happen across England at the moment , be pioneer in Wales . child be receive a free breakfast because of the work do in Wales . I praise my hon . friend and the entire Work and Pensions Committee for the work that it be do as part of its inquiry into pensioner poverty . I will be come to give evidence to the Committee shortly , and I know that its member have be listen not just in Wales but more widely , with event in Glasgow and Manchester as well . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I suspect that the hon . member on the Government Front Bench be now surround : I suspect that they be the only people leave in this Chamber who be prepared to defend the cutting of the winter fuel payment . dozen of their own mp have now join a long list of people tell the Government that they have get it wrong , include the Welsh First Minister — talk about learn lesson from Wales — the money - save expert Martin Lewis , and voter up and down this country . the Conservatives have lead this campaign from the start , but if the Government will not listen to we , will they now listen to everyone else and think again ? we have set out our policy , but here we be 10 month on and I have no idea what the Conservatives ' policy be . I be not even sure that they know what their policy be . for all the shouting , there be no promise to reinstate a universal winter fuel payment . there be one policy from the Leader of the Opposition , the very woman who call for the winter fuel payment to be mean - test in 2022 : now , she want to means - test the entire state pension . apparently , that be " exactly the sort of thing we will look at " . she think that be bold policymake . it be not — it be bonker . the good news be that the Minister have no responsibility for the Opposition . that be not something that the Leader of the opposition say . to the point in hand — the winter fuel payment — I wonder for how much long this tone - deaf final stand will go on . every time the Government talk about winter fuel payment , they make out that they have no choice , but that be simply not true . to govern be to choose . at well , this policy be only ever go to save £ 1 billion or so , but they be spend £ 8 billion on set up an energy company , and the cost of asylum hotel will rise to £ 15 billion under Labour . this have always be a choice , and it be the wrong one . can the Minister guarantee that next winter , every single one of the 750 , 000 poor pensioner who miss out on the winter fuel payment this year will receive it ? I can guarantee that this Government be go to deliver on our priority for pensioner by raise the state pension , with a £ 470 - a - year increase this April , and save the NHS , with a £ 26 billion increase every single year . what will the Conservatives be do ? none of that , because they oppose every single measure require to fund it . we know what the Tory plan be , because we have just live through it : pensioner poverty rise and the NHS collapsing . Social Security : tackle Poverty in Wales what step she be take through the social security system to tackle poverty in Wales . this Government be commit to tackle poverty right across the UK . we be review universal credit to ensure that it be do the job we want it to do : make work pay and tackle poverty . we have already announce that we will improve the adequacy of the standard allowance in universal credit , and we have introduce the fair repayment rate . alongside that , the child poverty taskforce be explore all available lever to reduce child poverty in all four nation , include consider social security reform . just a day before the new figure reveal yet another rise in child poverty in Wales , the UK Labour Government confirm plan for billion of pound - worth of welfare cut , push ten of thousand more child into hardship . the Government tell I that the data be not robust enough to know the poverty impact on Wales , which be really not good enough . the Labour First Minister — of the Senedd , not the " Assembly " , if I may correct the hon . member for Bristol North East ( Damien Egan ) — have also criticise this Government ' s approach . will the Secretary of State now listen to the First Minister of Wales , conduct a Wales - specific impact assessment and scrap these cruel measure ? I be sorry to disappoint the hon . Lady , but I be sure she would not want we to produce a potentially inaccurate assessment of the impact on Wales . what I would say — and I be sure that she agree with this — be that the level of poverty in Wales be unacceptable , which be a result of 14 year of the conservative party fail to address the long - term industrial decline of many community across Wales . I would also say to she that the good way to get people out of poverty be to get they into work , so I be sure she will welcome the recent launch of the inactivity trailblazer in Wales . do the Minister agree with I that the new fair repayment rate , which cap universal credit deduction at 15 % , along with the action of the Welsh Government to help more than 48 , 000 young people gain skill and find job through the young person ' s guarantee scheme will help alleviate poverty in Wales , and therefore should be welcome ? I of course agree with my hon . friend , about both the benefit of the youth guarantee and the specific impact of the fair repayment rate , which across the country will support 1 . 2 million of the poor family , include 700 , 000 family with child . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . since our last Question Time , Work and Pensions Ministers and local leader have launch eight of our 17 Get Britain work trailblazer programme across the UK , back by £ 240 million of additional investment . these include South Yorkshire ' s brilliant plan to get people back to health and back to work ; five trailblazer in London , include specialist support for young care leaver and those with musculoskeletal condition ; join up health and employment support in Blaenau Gwent , Denbighshire and Neath Port Talbot in Wales ; and our youth guarantee in Cambridgeshire and Peterborough . there be still much more that we need to do , but we have already make real progress in unlock people ' s potential and get Britain work and grow again . one of my constituent be experience severe delay in get access to work scheme payment , date back to February . in correspondence with the Department , a letter openly say there be no long - term solution to that , so when will the Secretary of State come forward with a long - term solution to speed up these payment ? I really thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and we do actually have a plan right now . it be announce in our Green Paper that we be go to reform access to work . it be a brilliant support , with a grant or money to help people with physical aid and adaptation , and other support , to get work and to stay in work . I would encourage he to input into the review , and either I or my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability would be more than happy to meet he to hear his view about how we can make this work for his constituent . accord to Sense , there be over 2 , 500 people with complex need in North West Cambridgeshire , many of whom will never be able to work because of their condition . do the Minister agree that dignity for severely disabled people need to be a priority for the welfare system , and can he update the House on progress towards ensure that people whose condition mean they will never be able to work be no long subject to the appalling repeat reassessment that we see all too often under the previous Government ? my hon . friend raise a very important subject . social security must always be there for those who can not work . the change announce recently to the rate of universal credit protect the income of those with the most severe lifelong condition who will never be able to work . we will also guarantee that , for both new and existing claim , those in this group will not need to be reassess in future . those be bake into the Green Paper proposal . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the number of job vacancy be fall month on month under this Labour Government , but the number of people employ be also fall . could the right hon . Lady admit what this mean be happen in the economy ? it be quite interesting to get that question from the shadow Secretary of State , since under her Government the employment rate do not get back to where it be pre - covid — the only country in the G7 not to do so . she leave 1 million young people not in education , employment or training , and she leave near record number of people — 2 . 8 million — out of work due to long - term sickness . business be still desperate to recruit . we be overhaul the system to ensure that people get the support they need . I be disappointed that the Secretary of State do not answer the question . I can answer it , if she will not . it mean that business have stop hire , the grow economy that we leave be be hammer by the Government ' s job tax , and thousand of young people be leave school and university with bad prospect than this time last year . business need a government who understand they and back they — that be what job depend on . she need business to hire people so she can hit her employment target . what be her message to they ? the shadow Secretary of State fail to recognise that job vacancy be fall under her government . I would say to she that we be inundate with business that be desperate to recruit and to get young people the skill they need . I meet a whole group of business in Leicestershire last week who be really keen to work with we . I suggest the hon . Lady take a good , long , hard look at her own party ' s record — the number of people she leave on the scrapheap — say sorry and get her own policy right first . I have be in touch with a constituent who have a disability and need help with showering and dress . she be concerned that , under our propose reform , she will not score enough point to continue receive the daily live portion of PIP . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement that the Government be review the PIP assessment , include the descriptor , but can she confirm that case like that of my constituent will be consider as part of the review ? I recognise my hon . friend ' s concern . we will engage stakeholder to consider the scope of the review before publish term of reference . in the review we will consider whether the assessment criterion effectively target the right people at the right level . we will look at the descriptor and consider the point allocate to they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . with 300 , 000 people set to be plunge into poverty through the proposal in the Green Paper and 700 family set to go deeply into poverty , will the Secretary of State advise how change to PIP will ensure that people with disability be live their good life ? the crucial thing be to improve the employment support for people who be out of work on health and disability ground . as the hon . Gentleman know , we have an ambitious programme , connect to Work , which be be roll out this calendar year , build up to an additional £ 1 billion a year in employment support by the end of the Parliament . at the moment there be 200 , 000 people out of work on health and disability ground who say they would like to be in a job now , and could be in a job now , if they have the support they need . we be determined , through the change , to provide exactly that support . my constituent Charlie Vernon be happily benefit from the access to work scheme until redundancy . he find a new job and do a fresh application last autumn , but since then , well beyond the 24 - week timeframe , there have be nothing . will my right hon . friend look into these sort of delay and have a more join - up system , because assessor be apparently deal with application from August at the moment ? my hon . friend be right that there be currently delay with the Access to work scheme , reflect the very large increase in demand and application for it over the past year or two . we be make change to speed thing up . we be also , in the Green Paper , consult on the future of the Access to work scheme . I would really welcome input from my hon . friend , and perhaps her constituent as well , about the change we should be make . the Government claim to be the party of business , but speak to business today and they be hurt . reduced opportunity for wealth creation and entrepreneurship , employee national insurance contribution and the Employment Rights Bill be destroy opportunity . what be the Government do to incentivise our wealth creator and encourage job creation ? the Government be provide the stability that business desperately need . we be work to transform skill in this country — that be absolutely what most business say to I they be desperately short of . we be overhaul our job centre , so that we actually serve business ' need . I would just say gently to the hon . Gentleman that it be under his party that we see the low business investment in the G7 . we be go to overhaul that and make this the good country in which to start up and grow a business . what assessment have the Minister make of the merit of increase local housing allowance to alleviate the pressure on housing authority ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . I just point out that the April 2024 one - year local housing allowance increase have cost an additional £ 1 . 2 billion in the last financial year , and it will cost about £ 7 billion over five year . we keep local housing allowance rate under review . he be right to stress the importance of those , but future decision on they will need to be base on the Government ' s priority and reflect the difficult fiscal condition that the Government be deal with . help more people off welfare and into work will require the support and good will of employer , which I fear those on the Government Benches do not fully recognise . how will the Minister achieve that move , have clobber business with the job tax , which cover all sector of business , hospice , charity and many employer ? as I say in response to an early question , we be overhaul the way that the Department for Work and Pensions support employer . we think it be unacceptable that only one in six business have ever use a jobcentre to recruit . we be change that , include by have a single account manager for business , so that they do not have to tell their story time and again . we be overhaul skill in this country , reform the apprenticeship , and extend the number of sector - base work academy programme and short skill programme that business desperately want . I know that business be desperately keen to engage with we , because they want to recruit , and it be about time that the right hon . Lady ' s party start listen to business . I have be ask by many of my Livingston constituent for reassurance on the Government ' s propose welfare change . can the Secretary of State assure the House that these reform will genuinely help people into decent , secure work , all the while protect those who clearly can not work due to ill health or disability ? I absolutely reassure my hon . friend that that be what we intend to do . our employment Bill be about ensure that we improve the quality of job , give great security to people and bring about more flexible working that will benefit sick and disabled people . we be invest £ 1 billion in employment support to make sure that disabled people have the chance and choice they deserve . through our review , lead by Sir Charlie Mayfield , we be change the workplace to make it more inclusive , because the Labour party be absolutely about ensure that disabled people who can work have the right to do so . carer UK report that unpaid carer be still receive debt notice over carer ' s allowance . between May 2024 and February 2025 , the number of notice increase by 9 , 000 , so we be now talk about 144 , 000 people . will the Secretary of State halt the creation of those overpayment debt until her independent review have take place and the recommendation be implement ? the hon . Gentleman be right that there have be a problem over a long period with overpayment — often inadvertent — of carer ' s allowance . that be why my right hon . friend the Secretary of State appoint Liz Sayce to undertake her independent review . I know she be make good progress , and I have regularly keep in touch with she . we be look forward to receive her recommendation , which will cover those who have be affect , and will recommend change for the future , too . what analysis have be do of how the change propose in the " pathway to work " Green Paper will affect those who rely on PIP not just for employment support , but for their daily living and mobility need ? can my right hon . friend please assure my constituent in Wolverhampton West who be disabled and will never be able to work that their financial support will not be restrict in a way that affect their quality of life , so that they can live with independence , and the dignity that they deserve ? that be an important concern . as my hon . friend know , we be determined to open up opportunity for people who have be out of work , often for a long time , on health and disability ground , and to give they the chance to get into work through much well employment support . however , we recognise that there will be people who will never be able to work . under the proposal for claim for the new universal credit health element , from next April , a high payment will protect those with the most severe lifelong condition that have no prospect of improvement , and who will never be able to work . Eligibility for that will be through the work capability assessment severe condition criterion . how be the Minister work with the Department for Education to ensure that when young people leave education , they have the skill they need to thrive in the world of work ? I refer the hon . gentleman to some of the response we have already give . the DWP and the DFE be work together closely as we change apprenticeship and change our jobcentre to ensure that the opportunity be there . have meet the hon . Gentleman , I know that his constituency be full of opportunity for young people , and we want to ensure that they get they . recent analysis by Health Equity North show that more than £ 13 million will be strip out of the local economy in the City of Durham every year due to PIP change . that come on top of the already worsen health condition for people in the north - east due to Tory austerity . would it not be more constructive for the Government to start by listen to the call of disability group and disabled people , and support they into work , rather than cut the benefit first and push those people far into poverty ? I can reassure my hon . friend that we be listen . we be consult precisely on how good to deploy the additional £ 1 billion a year for employment support that we have commit to in the Green Paper . however , the assessment of those measure need to take account of the significant impact that support many more people into work will have on reduce poverty . my constituent be extremely concerned about change to the PIP assessment system , and particularly how they will affect people with mental health issue and fluctuate long - term condition . those people may not be able to show the require evidence of how their ability to function be impact , since their experience do not always fit within the daily living and mobility assessment criterion . can the Minister assure I that the assessment system will be update to take those genuine challenge into account ? as I say early , we be review the PIP assessment process to ensure that it be fit for the future . that start this week , with stakeholder have be invite in to discuss the scope of the review and its term of reference . however , it be important to bear in mind that by the end of the Parliament we will still be spend £ 8 billion more on personal independence payment , and there will be 750 , 000 more people on PIP than there be now . we be make change to focus PIP on those in great need , while look at the underlie assessment process to ensure that it be fit for the future , but there will be more spending and more people on PIP by the time of the next election . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for what she say about resolve the issue with the application process for access to work . will she also kindly reassure disabled people about the future of access to Work , and that there will not be cut in the budget for it ? our reform to access to Work be not about saving ; they be about ensure that this brilliant service be available to more people in future . we be also look at how it might be deliver — whether it will continue to be deliver through the Department , or through an arm ' s length body — or , indeed , an organisation run by and for disabled people . this be a big opportunity to make change to a brilliant programme , and I know that the Select Committee will engage with we on this . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that the financial reparation that will be make to LGBT veteran follow the Etherton review be not take into consideration when assess entitlement to other benefit ? there be an issue with compensation payment more widely , and the right hon . Gentleman give an example of a current case . we be look at how we can ensure that people who receive those payment be protect . south Shields will be the 15th most negatively impact constituency if the Government ' s propose welfare change go ahead , yet there be no in - person consultation event in the north - east at all . can my right hon . friend please rectify that ? I will absolutely take that away to look at it . so many disabled member of society be unable to demonstrate the minimum academic requirement to get on to many course , or to secure employment . what step be the Government take to support those people , so that they can demonstrate vocational and non - academic competency , and get the job that they deserve ? that be exactly the point of our change to jobcentre and the £ 1 billion of investment in employment support — so that we can understand the pathway to work for people who have skill and talent but , as the hon . Gentleman say , perhaps not quite the right qualification . More than 9 million people in the UK be not actively seek work , with long - term illness cite as the single large reason . do the Minister agree that rather than penalise those who be sick or disabled , the Government should introduce a wealth tax to fund a genuine transformation of our public service , enable we to face the future with a healthy , happy and more productive workforce ? I refer my hon . friend to the fair , tough choice in the 2024 autumn budget : there be increase in inheritance tax , capital gain tax and dividend tax , and there be fair taxis on private jet and private school . for what purpose ? to fund investment in our public service , with £ 50 billion extra every year by the end of this Parliament . this be bring an end to an era of austerity . those be the fair choice that this Government have make and will continue to make . a number of constituent of mine in Edinburgh West — former police officer , and former and current NHS staff — have come to I with concern about the way the McCloud judgment on public sector pension be be implement , and worry that they will be negatively impact at great cost . how will the Government ensure that there be no negative impact ? the implementation of the McCloud judgment — unfortunately , one of the sad consequence of botch reform under the liberal Democrat and conservative coalition Government before 2015 — be important , and we need to take it seriously . if there be specific case , please do write to I about they . I be aware of the issue about make sure that scheme member get the detail from the NHS pension scheme , and we be work together closely to make sure member get those letter as soon as possible . I call Perran Moon . Meur ra , Mr Speaker . some of the most vulnerable people in my Camborne , Redruth and Hayle constituency have profound anxiety about what the change to personal independence payment eligibility criterion will mean for they . what step be the Minister take to communicate to people who will never be able to work again that the new process will not subject they to unnecessary and degrading assessment ? my hon . friend raise an important point . I recognise that there be a good deal of concern at the moment , and we want to ensure that people respond fully to our consultation set out in the Green Paper . we have say clearly in the Green Paper that we will ensure that those who will never be able to work will not go through repeat reassessment . that will be build into the system . initially , the people who will benefit from that will be those who meet the work capability assessment ' s severe condition criterion . today be World ME Day , and I hope that the Secretary of State and her Ministers will recognise the up to 1 . 3 million people who live with I and me - like symptom , and some of those with long covid . all they want be to have a normal life . I recognise what she have say about make PIP work for fluctuate condition . can I ask she to work with her colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to put aside research funding , so that money be available to ensure that those who would love nothing more than to live a normal life and go to work can get well ? I will certainly discuss that with the Health Secretary . we have a joint work and health programme and team , who be really try to join these two issue up . the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) have make her point very strongly in the House , and I be sure that she will do so again at Health and Social Care question . the Middlesbrough Disabled Supporters Association do vital work to support disabled Boro fan , but it be currently be hammer by increase bank charge . will the Minister for Disability work across Government to help take these bank to task so that non - profit disability group such as the MDSA can continue their important work ? I be aware that there be concern along those line across the charity sector as a whole . I would be delighted to work with my hon . friend to address the concern in Middlesbrough specifically . protection of Prison Staff ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Justice if she will make a statement on the failure of the prison estate to protect staff from serious and sustained violence by high - risk inmate . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I be shock and sadden to hear about the serious assault against a prison officer that take place on Thursday 8 May at HMP Belmarsh . my thought be with the family and colleague of the brave , hard - work prison officer at this time . we will not tolerate any violence against prison officer . prisoner who be violent towards staff will face the full consequence of their action . the incident at HMP Belmarsh be subject to a police investigation . as such , we be unable to comment far in any level of detail at this stage . the Prison Service have also commission an investigation , and its term of reference be be finalise . it will include detail of what happen and why , as well as recommendation to prevent recurrence . we will provide update to Parliament in due course . separately , on 22 April we announce to Parliament an independent review of the recent terrible incident where staff be assault by Hashem Abedi at HMP Frankland ; we will make further announcement in the come day . our prison officer be some of the hard work and brave public servant this country have . we be committed to ensure that they be safe at work and be able to keep the public safe . we announce at last the Justice oral question that the Prison Service have commission a rapid review of access to and use of self - cook area across the prison estate , include their use in special unit . the review will report back with recommendation in June . we recently announce a review of conduct energy device — also know as taser — and there be a trial involve a small number of national operational response and resilience unit staff . body - wear video camera , baton , PAVA spray and rigid bar handcuff be currently available for use by staff , and protective body armour be already wear by specialist prison staff and officer in case where there be plan use of force or where safe system of work for the management of high - risk prisoner dictate . we have also announce a review into whether protective body armour should be make available to frontline staff , and that review will report in June . I repeat : the safety and security of our frontline prison staff be our no . 1 priority . let I place on record our sympathy to the prison officer injure at HMP Belmarsh . we wish they a full recovery and thank all prison officer for their courage in the face of grow danger . let we be clear about what be happen in our prison . violence against officer have spiral out of control . in just the past month , two of Britain ' s most dangerous terrorist — Axel Rudakubana and Hashem Abedi — have launch vicious attack on officer in two of our supposedly most secure prison . the Secretary of State order a snap review into the attack at HMP Frankland , but three week later we have no answer and no action . every day it go on , the safety of officer be at risk , so I ask the Minister , when will this review conclude ? why have every prison officer expose to dangerous inmate not already be provide with a stab vest — not in June , but today ? I have speak to officer who say that attack with boiling water be not uncommon . will the Minister commit to order the removal of every kettle from high - risk prisoner — not in June , but today ? this go deep than one review . man like Rudakubana and Abedi glorify violence and dream of martyrdom , and still governor pander to they . I could not care less if Rudakubana never have a hot drink again — nor would the british public . this culture of appeasement and protect the right of convict terrorist and criminal over the safety of our officer must end now . if that mean keep they in cell with just a bed , so be it . if it mean no contact , no privilege , and certainly no cup of tea , so be it . let segregation truly and finally mean segregation . I want to say this as clearly as I can . I warn the House now that if the government do not get a grip , a prison officer will be kill . we have have enough review . we need action . that be the least that prison officer deserve . we be manage the most complex people in the most complex system . our prison staff have to manage extremely dangerous people , and they do it with real bravery . we will do whatever it take to keep they safe . that be why we have already take the action that we have . all prison carry out regular risk assessment and implement associate safe system of work . if a risk be identify regard kettle use or intelligence be receive that one might be use in an assault , the kettle will be withdraw . frankly , kettle be use for 14 year under the previous Government ' s watch , as they rightly trust the professional skill and expertise of those run and work in our prison . that be what we be do now . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . last week , the Justice Committee visit Wandsworth prison and note improvement , but from a very low base . we hear that the poor reputation of some prison , include rise violence , make recruitment more difficult . that be the legacy of 14 year of starve prison of resource . what be the current Government do to improve the recruitment and retention of prison officer ? my hon . friend be completely correct : we inherit a prison system in crisis , where prison be on the edge of collapse . reduce violence in prison be a key priority . that be why we have take the action we have in build new prison and in the sentencing review : to ensure that we always have prison space to lock dangerous people up . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . no prison officer should go to work in fear that they may leave in an ambulance . I therefore send my sympathy and those of the Liberal Democrats to the officer injure at HMP Belmarsh . assault on prison staff have double since 2015 — a reality for which the Conservatives should hang their head in shame . the Government must now get a grip . the Prison Officers Association , which be hold its conference in my constituency this week , have request more protective equipment . the Ministry of Justice be review that , but will it accelerate the review to ensure that officer get that support now , not next month ? recruitment and retention issue also compromise prison officer ’ safety , so what be the Government do to address that ? will not discontinue prison officer graduate scheme such as Unlocked Graduates compromise safety ? how be the MOJ robustly rehabilitate violent offender to reduce the risk they pose to prison officer and our community ? immediately after the incident at HMP Frankland , the Lord Chancellor , the Prisons Minister in the other place and I meet the Prison Officers Association . that be a significant discussion , and commitment be make to ensure that thing be address properly and correctly . the Prisons Minister will be speak shortly at the Prison Officers Association conference . the review that be in place be be do in fast time , but they need to be do properly so that we can learn the lesson and take the appropriate action . they also need input from the people who know exactly what be go on : those in the workforce and those who manage our prison . I confirm my interest as a member of the Justice Committee . do the Minister agree that overcrowding in prison be a cause of increase violence towards our prison officer and that that be a direct result of how the previous Government deal with our prison system ? will he please outline what step be be take to reduce overcrowding in our prison ? my hon . friend be completely right to say that prison overcrowding make address these issue far more difficult . that be why the Government have pledge to continue build the remain 20 , 000 prison place , which the last Government fail to deliver . in 10 month , this Government have already add more than 2 , 000 prison place . the Conservative Government add 500 place in 14 year . surely as a minimum , any prisoner who assault a prison officer should automatically forfeit any right to early release and all privilege . do the Minister agree ? if so , when will he introduce that change ? if not , why not ? the right hon . member be right to say that anything that happen should be deal with immediately by the prison authority , and that be exactly what be happen . that be why these review be in place : to learn the lesson so that appropriate action can be take and appropriate step put in place for the future , take into account the issue she raise , among other . this Government inherit a violent , squalid prison estate , which make the job of prison officer much more difficult and dangerous . the privatising of maintenance have contribute to overcrowding and the spiral of violence towards prison officer , so can the Minister explain why contract be be retendere ? also , will he release the report recommend more privatisation , so that we can all understand the logic behind this decision ? my hon . friend raise a question about prison maintenance ; that be always under review . contract be in place when this Government come into office that need to be take forward to ensure that our prison be keep as safe as possible . those who be assess as pose a raise risk of violence be support through a case management approach that be centre around the individual and address the underlying cause of their violence , include specific risk factor and need , to help they manage and move away from violent behaviour . I support the shadow Secretary of State ' s request for accelerate the supply of stab vest . can I ask the Minister for a bit more detail on the Government ' s think on the use of taser ? there be a long track record of Taser use in the UK , and it would seem that we could also accelerate the use of Tasers in prison as quickly as possible . I agree with the right hon . member that this need to be look at as quickly as possible . this summer , an operational trial on Tasers will be launch , involve specialised officer , to help staff respond to high - risk incident more effectively . the finding of the trial will inform any future decision about the use of taser in the prison estate . we need to learn from what we do so that we can get it right in the future . I declare an interest as an honorary life member of the Prison Officers Association . I thank the Minister for the working relationship he have establish with the union since come into office , but could I ask he to liaise with the POA and urgently bring forward a report , prison by prison , about staffing level and the timescale set aside for training staff , particularly to deal with the violent prisoner they be deal with at the moment ? I be very happy to continue to work with the Prison Officers Association and other staff association work in the prison sector to try to address the issue that my right hon . friend rightly raise . the Minister very graciously find time in his busy schedule to meet I and colleague recently to discuss the " 68 be too late " campaign . do he agree that recent event prove the tremendous pressure on our prison officer and staff , and will he give an undertaking to I and the House that , during the course of this Parliament , the term and condition of prison officer could be review , especially with a view to the " 68 be too late " campaign ? I thank the hon . member for his question and for meet I early in this Parliament to discuss these issue . yes , these thing rightly need to be keep under review , and the conversation take place with the workforce through the Prison Officers Association and other body will continue to make progress on this matter . violence in prison escalate for year under the previous Government , who leave our prison at break point . what be the Minister do to bring down level of violence in our jail ? my hon . friend be right to point that out . a violence reduction training module be available to all staff to help they well understand the driver of violence and how to mitigate and manage those risk , include the use of a case management model for those at raise risk of be violent . measure to ease prison crowding be vital for improve prison safety , as we know that crowded condition can fuel violence . in recent year , prison have expand security measure , such as X - ray body scanner and airport - style enhance gate security , to tackle the smuggling of drug , mobile phone and other contraband that can drive violence in prison . we must always be alert and move thing forward because the situation be forever change . do the Minister accept that the safety and security of our prison officer should always come before protect the right of convict criminal ? will he provide stab vest and Tasers for all officer who request they ? I agree wholeheartedly that the safety and security of our prison staff must always come first and foremost . to address the other part of the hon . member ' s question , I have already indicate that a review be go on . that need to be do properly and effectively , and we will come back and inform the House in due course . violence in prison rise sharply as investment and staffing fall under the previous Government . I speak to a prison officer who get an award for his bravery in deal with one of the many incident at the prison . he take his daughter to receive the award , and afterwards she beg he to stop do the job . he no long be a prison officer after that . what be the Government do to halt the level of violence and increase staffing level ? I congratulate that prison officer for the award he get and the work he do . the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 require court to consider the fact that serious offence be commit against emergency worker . the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 double the maximum penalty to two year , so there be action in place , but we need to be ever vigilant on this matter . that be why the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) be right to ask the urgent question : we need to be ever vigilant and work ever hard with the brilliant people who run and work in our prison . as co - chair of the justice union parliamentary group , I know that union have be raise the problem of safety and violence against staff in prison for year under the previous Government , which underfunde they and let they down . will the Minister commit to meet union at the launch in July of the newly update " safe inside " prison charter develop by the Joint Unions in Prisons Alliance , a coalition of nine union represent worker in prison , and that his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service will accept the recommendation in the charter ? I be happy to meet those union and the right hon . member on the charter . obviously , until we see the charter , it be difficult to know where thing be go on that , but I be sure that hmpps will be proactive in work with all the association on get the charter right . minister will recall the horrific attack on prison staff at HMP Frankland in Durham last month . while I be grateful for the Minister for Prisons ' reply to my correspondence , I note the lack of commitment around the issuing of stab - proof vest on the high - security estate . that be a key ask from the Prison Officers Association . while I welcome the Minister ' s word today when he say that it will be look into , I ask that it be do at pace because too many prison officer be worried about whether they will come out of work in their own vehicle or in the back of an ambulance . where an assessment be need for stab - proof vest now , they can be deploy , but follow the recent incident at HMP Frankland , HMPPS have commission a review to establish whether it be necessary for prison officer to wear protective body armour routinely . the review will inform any decision on the use of protective body armour on the prison estate and will report in June . June be next month , so it be happen pretty quickly , and rightly so because this be an urgent issue . we all understand the need to strike the right operational atmosphere and balance in prison , but in the interest of the retention and recruitment of prison officer , which be absolutely key if our prison estate be to work effectively , I hope that — irrespective of what the review might advise — the Minister and the Department will move speedily to a position whereby the wearing of anti - stab clothing and the carrying of Tasers and other equipment become de facto and routine , rather than merely happen in response to glean internal intelligence . otherwise , there will be a crisis in the retention and recruitment of officer . it be crucial that prison officer be equip with the right protective equipment to do their job safely and securely . the purpose of these review be to ensure that we get that right . many of my constituent work at HMP Frankland , which be in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) . I meet representative of the Prison Officers Association last week . two of the concern they raise be about equipment . they say that during the horrific terrorist attack by Hashem Abedi , they be unable to use baton because the space be too small to wield they , and he be so enraged that pepper spray have no effect on he . they clearly need additional equipment , so what step be be take on that ? if , as the POA tell I , activist lawyer and the court be insist that dangerous terrorist prisoner have access to kettle and the ability to use kitchen , will the Government consider change to primary legislation to enable those privilege to be remove from that category of prisoner ? let I say straightaway that access to kitchen have be immediately withdraw . a review of equipment be take place . the point that my hon . friend make about the intelligence he have have from prison officer at HMP Frankland illustrate the complexity around that issue . that be why we need to take our time to get this right while move at pace and come back to the House fairly quickly . thirty - two prison staff be kill in Northern Ireland by terrorist and their criminal associate . what step be the Minister take to ensure that our prison officer staff be safe both inside and outside prison , as we see an escalation in terrorist activity across this United Kingdom ? will he raise that issue at the five nation forum on prison ? I can certainly commit to ensure that that be raise at the five nation forum . the hon . Gentleman raise a sensitive and serious issue that need to be address in the right and proper way . I thank he for his question . I have meet constituent who be prison officer . they agree with the former Justice Secretary who say that prison officer cut be " too much " and lead to overcrowding and unsafe condition . this Labour Government be rebuild the trust of prison officer with a 5 % pay award , whereas the Conservatives run away from make such an award . what engagement do the Minister have with prison officer to understand what safety change they want , particularly the use of taser and stab - proof vest ? my hon . friend make a good point about the way in which the Government immediately recognise the need for an uplift in pay , in line with the independent pay report , and take action straightaway . as I say , immediately after the terrible incident at HMP Frankland , the Lord Chancellor , the Prisons Minister in the other place and I meet the Prison Officers Association . line be open with all the other staff association across the piece . it be important that we work with they to address this issue properly . I thank the Minister very much for his answer — he always come to the Chamber with the answer we hope for . it be shocking to read of the violent attack on prison staff by the Southport killer , which highlight the need for great supervision of , and security measure for , prisoner . what step will the Government take to tighten the prison privilege system ? take away their parole , for example . take away all their privilege . if that do not work , put they in solitary confinement . those evil killer have forfeit any right to privilege in this world . I think it be time that the Government take step in the right direction by ensure that high - risk offender do not have access to freedom that could be use to seriously harm those who risk their life work in our prison . the individual to whom the hon . Gentleman refer be part of a police investigation at the moment , so it would be inappropriate for I to comment on that . he make a good point about the management of very dangerous people in our prison . that be why we rely on the expertise and experience of prison staff , officer and governor . Prison should be a rehabilitative place for the vast majority of prisoner ; that be good for society , for lower crime and for our economy . but there be a small number of prisoner in our prison system for whom it should never be about that ; instead , it should be about punishment . the Southport murderer should die in jail and if he can not be in jail without threaten prison officer , he have forfeit his right . do the Minister agree ? what I do agree with be that punishment and public protection be two very important reason why people go to prison . as I say to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , I can not comment on a live police investigation , and my hon . friend will understand the reason why . I thank the Minister for his response to the urgent question and , like everybody in this House , my thought be with the officer who be attack . from speak to friend of mine who have work in the Prison Service over the last couple of year , it be clear that this be not a new problem , and it be vital that we tackle it . will the Minister echo his commitment to ensure that everyone , whether they be a retail worker in Harlow or a prison officer in Belmarsh , be safe at work ? I absolutely give that commitment : this Government will do all we can to make sure that people be as safe as possible when they go to work . nobody should suffer what happen to these very brave , wonderful prison officer do their duty ; that should not happen to anybody when they go to work . US - UK Trade Deal : Northern Ireland ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if he will make a statement on the US - UK trade deal , with particular reference to the impact on Northern Ireland . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I be grateful to be able to give a statement today , follow that give by my right hon . friend the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security on Thursday , to update the House on the agreement we have reach with the United States and specifically to address the important circumstance of Northern Ireland . I can confirm that we have closely consider the impact of this agreement on Northern Ireland . I have personally speak to the First Minister and Deputy First Minister twice while negotiate this deal , the first time alongside the Prime Minister . I want all Northern Ireland colleague to know that the importance of Northern Ireland in this deal , and all trade deal , be paramount to I personally , and I commit absolutely to work with any colleague from Northern Ireland on the implementation of agreement of this sort . first , as Northern Ireland be part of the UK ' s custom territory and internal market , Northern Ireland exporter can access the US market under this deal on the same preferential basis as the rest of the UK . secondly , this deal do not affect how import to Northern Ireland operate . US origin good will be able to benefit from this deal where they be not at risk of enter the EU . as a result of the Windsor framework , Northern Ireland business import eligible US good under this deal can avoid any unnecessary duty with establish scheme such as the UK internal market scheme . thirdly , there be a comprehensive tariff reimbursement scheme . the difference between the UK and EU duty can be claim back , so long as it can be demonstrate that the good do not enter the EU single market . the custom duty waiver scheme also allow at - risk duty to be waive entirely regardless of the destination , subject to an overall limit . as we have say all along , we have continue to act in the good interest of all UK business , which very much include those in Northern Ireland . more broadly , I can confirm that this agreement save thousand of job , give the UK an advantage over other country in relation to trade with the US , and confirm a process of potentially secure a much wide trade agreement between our two country . the UK - US trading relationship , which be already worth £ 315 billion , be important and grow . we have £ 1 . 2 trillion invest in each other ' s economy , employ around 2 . 5 million people across both our country . that be why this deal be so important . throughout our negotiation , business have consistently praise our calm - headed , pragmatic approach to work with President Trump ' s Administration and I thank they for their engagement , their support and their advocacy . turn to the detail of the agreement , in no industry be the potential impact of tariff more acute than in our automotive sector . we have therefore negotiate a quota of 100 , 000 vehicle where tariff will be reduce from 27 . 5 % to 10 % — Order . I gently say that answer to urgent question be only mean to last for three minute . I can see that you have quite a few more page ; I be happy to take they because I think it be important that the House know about the deal , but we need to understand what we have grant and what we have not grant . I do not want to go back over the event of Thursday , when nobody seem to understand the procedure of the House , and I recognise how important this issue be to hon . member but , seriously , we should know the rule and I just wonder how this have go wrong again . Mr Speaker , I be incredibly grateful for your forbearance . if it be okay , I will continue to these word , give how important I know the matter be to all member of the House . order . if it be so very important , why be it not present to the House as a statement or convert ? that be what I would say . I never quite understand — the other day , we could not convert they quickly enough , but today we do not want to . Mr Speaker , I would have be more than happy to make it a statement , and I be hope to be able to do so . we have negotiate a quota of 100 , 000 vehicle where tariff will be reduce from 27 . 5 % to 10 % , and secure an agreement for associate car part , recognise the vital role that this sector play in our economy . for steel and aluminium , this deal will remove the 25 % additional tariff that be put in place early this year , reduce US tariff on core steel product to zero . this will provide a critical lift for the steel industry , which have be bring back from the brink of collapse , allow UK steelmaker to continue export to the US . this follow our intervention last month to take control of British Steel and save thousand of job in Scunthorpe . for pharmaceutical and life science , this deal provide assurance that we will receive significantly preferential access in case of any new US tariff , something that , so far , only the UK have secure . as the pharmaceutical manufacturing sector contribute £ 20 billion to the UK economy a year and employ around 50 , 000 people , this be a priority for we . on aerospace , we agree that UK aerospace export , such as Rolls - Royce engine and plane part , will have a specific guarantee of zero tariff as a result of this deal . this will be a huge boost to the sector , which support 450 , 000 job in the UK . to secure this deal , we have make agreement with the US on beef , ethanol and economic security . on beef , we have agree a new quota of 13 , 000 metric tonne , and have reduce the UK tariff on exist US import come through a World Trade Organisation quota limit to 1 , 000 metric tonne . crucially , I can confirm this will comply with sanitary and phytosanitary standard , in accordance with the commitment that we have always make . the increase in the quota of 13 , 000 tonne compare with the 110 , 000 tonne in the Australia deal negotiate by the last Conservative Government . even more importantly , the deal be reciprocal , mean our UK beef farmer will have unprecedented market access to the US . our farmer will be able to export their high - quality beef through an exclusive UK quota to a market of over 300 million people , provide unparalleled access to the world ' s large consumer market . on ethanol , we already import a significant amount of ethanol from the US and have agree a duty - free quota cap at 1 . 4 billion litre . we be work closely with our domestic sector to understand its concern and any potential impact to business , include what more Government can do to support the sector . finally , the UK and US will strengthen our co - operation on economic security and work together to combat duty evasion . we will continue to use investment screening measure already in place , and we will work together to protect our exist supply chain from any third - country investment that concern either one of we . this government will take a consistent , long - term and pragmatic approach to manage the UK ' s relationship with third country , root in our UK and global interest . as we have make clear , the aspiration on both side be that this be just the beginning , with the US agree to deepen transatlantic trade and investment far , and to progress discussion towards a transformative UK - US technology partnership . this deal have see job save and job win , but it be by no mean job do . the siren voice of the extreme can claim to be the voice of work people all they want , but we know that on matter of action on wage , security and opportunity , it be this Government who will make the difference . the deal come on the back of our India trade deal early last week and on the promise that many government have make to secure trade agreement with the US . although many people have talk about those deal , it be this Government that have get they across the line for every bit of the UK , include Northern Ireland . for all his verbosity , the Secretary of State come nowhere close to address the issue that arise from the fact that this Government and this House do not control the trade law of a part of this United Kingdom — namely , Northern Ireland . under the Windsor framework , Northern Ireland be place under the EU ' s custom code , so it be therefore its tariff , not the UK ' s tariff , that govern the import to Northern Ireland . with the EU have no trade deal with the US or India , the result tariff on import under this deal will be high when the good come to Northern Ireland than when they come to GB . for manufacturing and consumer , that create huge disadvantage and fundamentally contradict the equal citizenship that be suppose to denote a United Kingdom . the Secretary of State refer to the convoluted and tardy system of possible recoupment of tariff , but the onus there be on those apply to prove that anything they produce will never go into the EU . it be no answer to Northern Ireland ' s subjection to foreign trade law , which we do not make and can not change . the Secretary of State would not contemplate that for his own constituent , but he expect we to sup it up in Northern Ireland . I will ask the Secretary of State about three specific issue . under the deal , will it not be easy for US manufacturer to buy tariff - free steel from Great Britain than for manufacturer in Northern Ireland to buy the same steel from their own country to bring it into their own country ? that steel will be subject to EU tariff . how can that ever be compatible with Northern Ireland supposedly be part of the EU ' s internal market ? in term of beef and the tariff - free trade within the quota that have be set , how can — order . I be sure that the hon . and learn Member must be come to an end . just because the Secretary of State have take advantage of the Chamber , I certainly do not expect every other Member to do so — front Benchers , yes , but the hon . and learn Member will know that he be limit to two minute . where there be a set quota for import of beef , how can Northern Ireland participate in that if the UK can not offer a reduce tariff rate in Northern Ireland ? do that mean that our beef - export farmer in Northern Ireland will be exclude ? surely all these trade deal expose the folly of surrender part of our territory to foreign custom control . I be grateful to the hon . and learn Member for bring this urgent question and for put his community ' s concern on the record ; I understand how strongly he will feel about they . there be much that I could say and criticise about the previous Conservative Government ' s approach to a lot of thing , but the approach that they take with the Windsor agreement to balance the obvious , practical problem and reality of Brexit — of leave the single market when Ireland be in the EU and the custom union — alongside our commitment under the Good Friday agreement to observe what we have all sign up to and want to support be fundamentally well than when they threaten to break all kind of international law and agreement with key partner . it be the well way to find a way through they . I absolutely accept and understand that this issue be difficult and complicated , but I can tell the hon . and learn Member that that be not just the perspective of the UK Government , in term of work with our colleague and ensure that these issue be reflect in the agreement , but what we hear from the other side in these agreement . when we explain what we need to see happen around agreement such as this , we see that the US be absolutely committed to peace , to the Good Friday agreement and to the sound work of the Windsor agreement . the hon . and learn Member have raise a number of specific question , and I will ensure that we deal with they . we will meet with he and a delegation of mps and ensure that we be in correspondence with he , as we have promise to be with the First Minister and Deputy First Minister . this approach be complicated , but it be far well than the one we briefly glimpse in that difficult period when the Conservative Government do not have the Windsor agreement in place . fundamentally , there be a difference between good enter Northern Ireland and therefore enter the UK and good enter Northern Ireland if there be a risk of they enter the single market more widely . this be a sound system to deal with that , and I accept that we must make it work . this be not our system , but we recognise what the previous Government be try to do . whether the hon . and learn Member want it or not , I offer he an absolute , unequivocal agreement that we will work with he on any concern he or his community have to ensure that we get this right to the maximum degree possible . can the Minister update the House on the Government ' s engagement with the chemical industry ? absolutely . whenever any trade agreement of any sort be agree , there will obviously be domestic impact if our trading partner have request further access to the UK market . that be particularly the case for the agreement on bioethanol . senior official from my Department have be meet representative of the domestic industry , and I have a personal meeting set up — on Wednesday of this week , I believe . a lot of the issue we need to address be wide than what have be agree through this trade agreement , but our commitment to work with the domestic industry to help manage any trade - base transition be absolute . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) on secure this urgent question , although I agree that the Government really should have offer a statement to the House on this important subject . of course , the House have still not yet see the full detail of the trade agreement with the United States of America . the Secretary of State say that this be just the beginning , but there be still a great many unanswered question about what we have so far , include what be clearly ongoing negotiation on pharmaceutical . in his answer , the Secretary of State say that the UK will have significantly preferential rate , but what do that mean in practice ? where be the detail about what " significantly preferential rate " actually mean ? there be similar question about the digital service tax . last week , the shadow Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , ask the Trade Minister a straight question : whether this trade agreement would " protect the special status of Northern Ireland " . — [ Official Report , 8 May 2025 ; Vol . 766 , c . 899 . ] the Minister be unable to provide an answer at the time , and I remain unconvinced by what the Secretary of State have have to say today — there be still a lot of talk about the risk of good enter the European Union . clearly , this be a far more complex situation than the Secretary of State would like we to accept . as the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim make clear , the EU be still hugely influential in Northern Ireland trade law . the point he make about steel , for example , be accurate and deserve clear answer . it be clear that this deal will have a number of implication for the functioning of the dual custom regime , yet business in Northern Ireland have be leave in the dark for too long by the lack of detail in last week ' s announcement . I would therefore be grateful if the Secretary of State would confirm what discussion he have have with his US and EU counterpart about rule of origin and the green lane in Northern Ireland . what specific measure be the Government implement to ensure that Northern Ireland business be not disproportionately burden by increase cost and administrative complexity as a result of this trade agreement ? finally , give that the Prime Minister be gear up for his surrender summit with the European Union next week , can the Secretary of State confirm that there will be no backsliding on Northern Ireland ' s place as an integral , absolute and total part of our United Kingdom ? that be a fairly odd stream of consciousness , if I be be totally honest . it appear that I have give a strong defence of the Windsor agreement negotiate by the former Conservative Government than the conservative party have manage today . the shadow Minister have ask for detail . I acknowledge that , particularly when deal with the US and the style of the US system , negotiation have a pace — a pulse — and they be perhaps different from how we would present the detail of a complete trade agreement , such as the one we agree with India . however , I think he would acknowledge the importance of last week ' s announcement , because such a significant part of our export to the US be cover by its sectoral tariff , not the reciprocal one . business would have have to start plan this week for a world of — in some case — 25 % tariff , which would have have major repercussion for job , business and growth in the UK . be able to give those business reassurance , alongside a clear indication of the ongoing nature of the negotiation , be a significant win for british business . I hope the Opposition recognise that . the hon . Gentleman ask specifically about preferential rate on pharmaceutical product . those in the United States have not yet complete their own investigation in respect of some of the sectoral tariff to which they have allude , and have not announce what they be put in place . the nature of the agreement , give that it cover the sectoral tariff , be to recognise that we would want the UK to be in a preferential position on those as well , rather than agree what we have already agree on sectoral tariff and then see further sectoral tariff announce in future . the hon . Gentleman ask about the digital service tax . it be not in the agreement ; it be not a part of what be announce last week . as for the question of the special status of Northern Ireland , this be the agreement that the conservative party strike . it manage two very difficult countervail pressure . the Conservatives might have think more about this during the Brexit process , but they do not . they have to resolve the issue after the agreement , and to be honest , I do not think they do a particularly bad job in reach the compromise that Windsor represent . export from Northern Ireland be cover by the preferential trade term that we have secure with the United States . when good come into Northern Ireland , there be a differential depend on whether they be stay in the United Kingdom or there be a risk of their enter the EU ' s single market . that be what the conservative party agree . I think that the new degree of complexity come from differential between the EU ' s approach to trade and trade defence , and our own , but surely we all recognise that part of what we be talk about here reflect the fact that we be not in the European Union . the hon . Gentleman again engage in some language about the European Union . this country do a trade deal with India last week , one that the conservative party promise many time but never deliver . we reach an agreement with the United States in the same week . we have the EU summit come up . everything that we have say about how this country do not have to pick just one trading partner — it can be the well connect market in the world — be bear out by the agreement that we have sign . every member of this House should get behind a UK that be strong on the world stage and connect to each and every one of the major economic market that we need to be our partner . I congratulate the Secretary of State first on be pappe in the away end on Friday night , and secondly on , twice in one week , uphold our world - lead environmental and welfare standard . can he assure I that as these conversation — and , indeed , conversation with future trading partner — develop , further deal will always prioritise high food standard to protect both our farmer and our consumer ? last week be a good week all tell , on footballing and trade matter . you may be note , Mr Speaker , that my voice be a little hoarse as a result . we on the Government Benches be elect on our manifesto commitment not to alter our sanitary and phytosanitary regime and our food standard . some people say that a deal with the United States would not be possible if we stick to that , but we do , and we have an agreement . that prove everything we say about why that issue be so important to we . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . please bear with I , Mr Speaker , because I think that I too be lose my voice . Parliament must be give a vote on the United States trade deal and all future trade deal , which must be properly scrutinise by Parliament . let I remind the Secretary of State that Labour party policy be to have a vote in Parliament on trade deal . what a massive u - turn have take place over the past few month . trump ' s trade war threaten job across the United Kingdom and especially in Northern Ireland , where there be heighten uncertainty because of the Tories ' botch Brexit deal . what be the Secretary of State ' s assessment of the impact of Trump ' s trade war on our small business and our living standard , and what will he do to address those impact ? in Wokingham , where I live , Shinfield Studios employ hundred locally . we be the Hollywood of the UK . what step be the Government take to protect the UK film industry from potential tariff , and thus to protect job in Wokingham and in other part of the UK , include Northern Ireland ? we have discuss this issue across the Chamber on several occasion . we as a Government be not propose any change in how the UK and Parliament ratify treaty . I have never give the promise that the hon . Gentleman have mention ; I have not change my position . the position be as it always have be — that Parliament have a key role in scrutinise treaty , and any change that require legislation or alteration in our domestic law go through Parliament in the usual way . I think the hon . Gentleman will recognise that this week there could have be announcement of job loss and restructuring that would have be very difficult for a range of important sector in our economy , and I do not think any Member of Parliament would have want to see that happen because of a parliamentary process . I understand that the liberal Democrats want we to rejoin the custom union , and that therefore trade deal with the United States or India would not be possible . that be consistent and fair , but it would have be very painful if that have be the UK Government ' s position go into negotiation . the hon . Gentleman ask about the impact of any potential issue in the global trading system on small business and the wide economy . they be significant for our bilateral relationship , but he will also know that the UK be very exposed to wide relationship because we be an outward - face economy . that be why we have to be on the pitch with our sleeve roll up , try to find solution for ourselves that other country can follow . the hon . Gentleman ask a very pertinent question about the film industry . again , for any area where there have be the suggestion of sectoral tariff but they be not yet in place — to be honest , it be not entirely clear what would be the subject of a tariff in the case of a film — we have language in the agreement that reflect that . we would cite that as an exist area where there be a really strong and mutually beneficial bilateral trading relationship between ourselves and the United States . I welcome this trade deal , and particularly the beneficial impact it will have on the steel and automotive sector . I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State mention his discussion on ethanol , where I know some concern have be raise . I have speak to industry representative , and they be confident that they have a solution that will work well for the Government ' s trade deal . notwithstanding his meeting with Ensus on Wednesday , will my right hon . friend meet I and senior representative of the UK ' s two bioethanol producer to discuss how they can make the Government ' s trade deal with the US a major success ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question , and for his industrial expertise . I promise to have that meeting . whenever trade arrangement have an impact on domestic industry , it be important that we work as a partner to industry in order to address that . he be right to say there be two substantial bioethanol plant in the United Kingdom that might be affect , and we be already set up a process to work with they , as he have request . this deal , as with the India deal , be good for the UK . it be particularly good for Northern Ireland , which in turn can also access the single market . however , the urgent question have some merit , because the reimbursement scheme be quite onerous , and I urge the Secretary of State and his team to look into where efficiency could lie . will he clarify how his Department can help Northern Ireland business to expand in the US and take advantage of this deal ? first of all , I be extremely grateful to the right hon . gentleman for point out that , across this House , there should be unanimous agreement that trade agreement with the United States and India be in everyone ' s interest . I have be a bit dismayed by some of the feedback from those on the Conservatives Benches — not Back Benchers , but Front Benchers — because we should all recognise that such deal be important not only for our bilateral trading relationship with those key market and for the potential growth that come from that , but because they send a message to the rest of the world about free , fair and open trade at a time when that message be very much need . feedback on the performance of the duty reimbursement scheme have be significant and we be work with partner in Northern Ireland , and with the Treasury , to see how we can improve the scheme . I think people recognise the fundamental of the scheme and what it be try to do , but there be complaint about how easy it be to access . I recognise that and commit to work on it . we have a whole range of export programme , as the right hon . Gentleman might be aware , but how exciting it will be to have business from Northern Ireland and every part of the UK take advantage of some of the new , liberalised trading relationship that we have in place . they be not only preferential to what we have have in the past , but preferential to what other country have . for instance , the deal with India offer access to indian Government procurement that no other country in the world have . I be excite by that , and I hope other colleague be too . I thank the Minister for his vital work on this trade deal — I be feel more and more like Jim Shannon all the time . order . the hon . Member mean " the hon . member for Strangford " . apology . I be feel more and more like the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) all the time . can the Minister give the House some additional detail on how this trade deal and other will protect job in both Northern Ireland and Harlow ? do he agree that these trade deal mean that we avoid a trade war , which be good for everybody ? I thoroughly endorse that . there be some significant headline win from these trade agreement . obviously , we be focus in the main on headline reduction in tariff — whether that be whisky go from 150 % to 40 % under the India deal , or the removal of sectoral tariff through the US deal — but there be other thing . I have mention procurement from the Indian Government , but what really interest I be how we can remove friction for small business and how we could have great access to the US market . trade — liberalise trade and free trade — be one of the absolute certainty for growth , for job and for investment . that be why I want all colleague to be behind these deal . at time in the UK ' s history , there have be a genuine cross - party consensus on the benefit that trade can bring , and I want to see every colleague on either side of the Chamber get out there and sell the benefit to business in their own community . this trade deal with the United States do not even touch the side of the trade deal promise by Brexiteers . neither do it touch the side of the damage do by our be rip out of the custom union and the single market . I have hear the Minister talk about the challenge , but there be a compromise that Labour use to back , or certain Labour Members would back , of remain part of the single market and the custom union . what be it about a Reform and Tory Brexit that he embrace so well ? that have never be our position . it be never the position in our manifesto and it be never our position after the introduction of Brexit . the hon . Gentleman talk about the promise that Brexiteers make . I be not accountable for those and never have be , and frankly I be relieve about that . I would simply ask he whether an economy of our size — a G7 economy — can contract out trade policy to a custom union when we be not part of the political arrangement sit behind that . I just do not see that as realistic . I hear the hon . Gentleman not get behind , for instance , the reduction in the indian tariff on Scotch whisky from 150 % to 40 % , but he should promote his own interest a bit more strongly . regardless of how member vote in the referendum on the European Union , they should get behind the benefit for every part of the United Kingdom , whether in the deal with India or that with the US . it will not be the same as be part of the single market — that political decision be take in the referendum — but despite that we can build the good possible position for every bit of the United Kingdom . I think we should look to the future , rather than relive the battle of the past . I know this will not mean much to the SNP , but the political uncertainty after the referendum while we do not have the new arrangement in place really do cause harm to the UK . it be in itself a detriment , and that be exactly why the continue obsession about the constitutional position of Scotland be not in the interest of scottish business . we be look to the future , and agree deal that benefit every part of the UK , and if the hon . Gentleman can not get behind that , so what ? we will defend Scotland ' s interest , and make sure it be get well access to every market in every bit of the world . although it pain I , as it do , to do so , I have to concede that whiskey be produce in Northern Ireland . when the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security make the statement on the indian trade deal , he understandably place great emphasis on the benefit to the Scotch whisky industry and indeed the UK whisky industry from that deal , but when he make the statement on the US deal , he say precisely nothing about whisky . can the Secretary of State clarify exactly what be the current position on whisky with the US , and what be his aspiration ? first , while we would all recognise the superiority of the quality of Scotch whisky , the deal with India also cover export of gin . I be at the Beefeater factory , not far from here , last week . the deal also cover northern irish whiskey ; bushmill be part of this deal , too . the right hon . member ' s question on the US be about the reciprocal tariff put in place ; obviously , no sectoral tariff have be put in place on anything affect whisky production . that conversation be part of the wide ongoing discussion about the reciprocal tariff , or the 10 % as it be sometimes refer to . I believe there be no need for that and that it can come down , but there will have to be movement on the US side for that . I think we could reach agreement on a whole range of tariff line and product area that would far deepen the trading relationship between ourselves and the US , and that be why we be committed to continue this conversation . of course , the UK be not a high - tariff country — as it be , what tariff we have in place be relatively modest — and we therefore have to make sure that what we agree be in the interest of both country . however , that will be part of the ongoing conversation , which include the digital agreement we be seek to strike and a whole range of other area of interest to member across the Chamber . the Secretary of State spend about five minute of his response evade the question that be ask : what will the impact of this trade deal be on Northern Ireland ? the fact of the matter be — and he have already say it — that this will be difficult and complicated , and we have to remember that the EU have a single market to protect . it seem he be more interested in protect the EU from the dribble of good that go into the EU than protect the internal market of the United Kingdom . the fact of the matter be this . the Secretary of State may say , " well , provide that business can prove that part and other thing do not go into the EU , they can then get the taxis back . " but the process for do that be so complicated , so convoluted and so time - consume that very often business be without the money for a long , long time , with all the cash - flow problem . then the Treasury spend an age get the taxis — order . we do need to have a question . I understand that the right hon . Gentleman feel strongly about this , but I say again to he that any difficulty or complexity be not cause by this trade agreement per se . there be an arrangement in place — one that the Government support and one that , I believe , those on all side of the House adhere to — that manage the particular situation that Northern Ireland be put in as a result of Brexit . that be the reality . where we have a lot of tension in the global trading system and differential between ourselves and the EU — there be go to be differential at time — it be incumbent on we all to manage they and ensure that northern irish business and consumer be get the benefit of the trade agreement we be seek , and that where there be that relationship to the wide European Union , we operate all those scheme in a way that be to their maximum utilisation and efficiency . I recognise that there be complaint about the duty reimbursement scheme , and we have work with colleague on that , but it be not these trade deal that cause that complexity ; it be the particular situation that the previous Government need to find a solution to — and , to be fair to they , they do find a solution . we , on all side , be commit to honour and make sure it be work . as skilfully draft as the Windsor framework certainly be , it could not possibly have fully anticipate President Trump and his tariff , or the prospect of an EU - US trade and tariff war . do the Secretary of State understand how concerned small and medium - sized business in Northern Ireland be ? suddenly , they be place , potentially , at the epicentre of that trade war . it be all very well to say that they can claim back the differential in tariff , but the bureaucracy involve in such an exercise , as the Secretary of State will understand , be substantial and significant . what will he now do to mitigate it ? I understand the reasonable point the right hon . Gentleman be make — that perhaps large part of the global trading system do not anticipate the position we find ourselves in today — but I believe it be draft recognise that there would likely be divergence in trade policy between the United Kingdom and the European Union , and that be what we be seek to manage . he mention — I understand this , because it be the feedback we receive in the Department as well — thing like the complexity and the functioning of the duty reimbursement scheme , and how it need to work well . I hear that from business in Northern Ireland and I be hear it very clearly in the Chamber today . obviously , that relate to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and a Treasury responsibility , but I give he an absolute assurance that we be listen and we be commit to do this . but it be incumbent on all of we to make it work . I thank the Secretary of State for his extended answer . in his original answer , he say that he have speak with the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister twice . be they supportive of the Government ' s approach ? do they raise any concern ? how be those concern mitigate ? do they agree to the final deal ? with regard to the EU re - set negotiation of 19 May , be the Government engage with the Northern Ireland Executive party ? I regularly meet all colleague across the United Kingdom to keep they update on matter of trade . those be specific meeting in relation to what be be negotiate with the US . the final decision on any trade agreement be with myself and the Prime Minister . we do not seek formal agreement per se from colleague in the devolved government , but we keep they inform as to what we be negotiate , the kind of issue come up on the other side and how we deal with that . it be not for I to reveal the content of those conversation , but the kind of reasonable concern be air in the Chamber today , about how thing like the reimbursement system work and the feedback from Northern Ireland business , be of course a part of that conversation . we commit again , as I have do here at the Dispatch Box , to work with they on effective solution to those problem . the Secretary of State say that free trade be essential for growth . what a shame that the trade across the UK be still so badly affect by we not be part of the custom union . when Labour be in opposition , he call for " a proper role for Parliament in how trade deal be ratify " , and argue that there need to be " a much high level of scrutiny than we be see now " under the previous Government . there be clearly many question about how the deal will affect business in Northern Ireland . we have see how the Australia trade deal have be allow to undermine british farmer across the UK , animal welfare and food standard , thank to a lack of parliamentary scrutiny under the Conservatives . farmer in my constituency be worried that american agribusiness will undercut they with inferior meat . I hear what the Minister say about uphold SPS — order . can the hon . Lady get to the question , please ? will the Minister provide reassurance that Members of this House will be give the opportunity to fully scrutinise and vote on the new trade deal with the United States ? the hon . Member will have hear my early answer . I believe that Parliament should play a role in scrutinise trade legislation , and indeed any international agreement , but it be not the case in the United Kingdom that we have formal " up or down " vote on any treaty . we vote on the implementation of those agreement , and the responsibility for negotiate and agree those be with the Government , rather than Parliament . I be not aware of any substantive proposal to change that system . it be certainly not something that the UK Government today be commit to do . the hon . member talk about the impact of leave our exist trade relationship in the custom union . that be part of that referendum . I understand how people feel intensely about that . [ interruption . ] People have different interpretation of why they vote . we can relive the argument forever or we can focus on the future , on reduce barrier to trade and on the kind of agreement deliver advantage for every part of the UK , and that be exactly what we be do . have we in this case still be part of the custom union , there would be no breakthrough with the US or the India trade deal . all colleague need to balance up the two thing alongside each other . in relation to the automotive sector , that lack of a breakthrough would have mean significant job loss this week in the United Kingdom , and that would have be very painful for all of we . with what I be sure will be a pithy final question , I call Jim Shannon . you have set I a challenge , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) for secure this urgent question . it be so important to talk about this issue in this place . it have cause considerable problem for my Strangford constituent . in particular , I mention three distillery — Echlinville , Rademon and the Hinch — but many other business be affect , too . how do the Minister plan to address the tariff differential that may arise for Northern Ireland follow the UK - US trade deal ? it may see any EU retaliatory tariff on US good be apply to US good enter Northern Ireland , potentially create an irish sea border for US good . there be only one Member for Strangford , and no one could mistake he for anybody else in ask a question of that sort . he ask about the definition of whether good be at risk of enter the single market when they come into Northern Ireland . that be base on a percentage differential in the tariff between the United Kingdom tariff rate for a good or tariff line and that for the EU . I believe that a 3 % differential put a good come into Northern Ireland potentially at risk and therefore consider for the high tariff up front . in this case , that would be the EU one , and it would then be reimburse . I understand that it be a more complex position for business in his constituency than for many other thing , but we have to make this work . we have to be commit to work with business in his area , in Northern Ireland and in the wide United Kingdom , and specifically with political leader , to ensure that we be get this right . I be hear , and I have hear many time , about how we can make that system smoother , more reliable and more efficient . we will take that away and work with our colleague to do that . however , the system in place be balance many different compete pressure , and there be no obvious or easy solution . I be a parliamentarian when we go through all the potential outcome when a different party be in charge . let we make it work . let we listen where we need to improve thing , but let we recognise that this agreement fundamentally address some of the core problem that exist when this country choose to leave the European Union . I thank the Secretary of State for his very detailed answer this afternoon . Immigration System before I call the Home Secretary to make her statement , Mr Speaker have note that detail of the White Paper have be report in the medium since Sunday morning . as Mr Speaker have say previously , it be important that these policy announcement be make in the first instance in this House , and not in the medium . Mr Speaker do not understand why the Government persist in make announcement in this way , when the ministerial code be absolutely clear : " when Parliament be in session , the most important announcement of government policy should be make in the first instance in Parliament . " it be clear to Mr Speaker that , for whatever reason , that principle be no long routinely observe by the Government , and he will be give further consideration to what might be possible in order to regularise the situation . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the Government ' s White Paper on restore control over the immigration system . five month ago , the figure be publish that show net migration have reach a record high of more than 900 , 000 under the last Conservative Government — a figure that have quadruple in the space of just four year . that be the consequence of specific Government choice make from 2020 onwards , include introduce what be effectively a free market experiment on immigration : encourage employer to recruit from abroad and loosen control in different area , but without any requirement to tackle skill and labour shortage here at home . those choice undermine the immigration system and the economy too . this government be make very different choice . we make it clear at that time , just as we set out in our manifesto , that this Government would restore order and control to the immigration system , not only bring net migration substantially down , but boost skill and training here at home . the White Paper we be publish today do exactly that . it be build on five core principle : first , that net migration must come down , so the system be properly manage and control ; secondly , that the immigration system must be link to skill and training here in the UK , so that no industry be allow to rely solely on immigration to fill its skill shortage ; thirdly , that the system must be fair and effective , with clear rule in area such as respect for family life , to prevent perverse outcome that undermine public confidence ; fourthly , that the rule must be respect and enforce , include tackle illegal and irregular migration and deport foreign criminal ; and finally , that the system must support integration and community cohesion , include new rule on the ability to speak English and the contribution that people can bring to the UK . our United Kingdom be an interconnected and outward - look nation . our history and our geography mean that for generation , british people have travel overseas to live and work , and people have come to the UK to study , work , invest or seek refuge . british citizen draw on heritage from all over the world , and that have make we the country we be today . through many year , our country have be strengthen by those who have come here to contribute , from the doctor in our NHS to the entrepreneur found some of our big business and those who come through generation to work in job from coal mining to care for our love one or serve in our armed force — people often come to do some of the most difficult job of all . our trading nation , global lead university and strong historical international connection mean that migration will always be part of our country ' s future as well as our past . but that be exactly why immigration need to be properly control and manage — and it have not be . overseas recruitment shoot up while training in the UK be cut . low skilled migration soar while the proportion of UK resident in work plummet . in 2019 , 10 % of skilled work visa go to non - graduate job . by 2024 , that have rise to 60 % . employer be even give a 20 % wage discount if they recruit for shortage job from abroad , actively discourage they from pay the go rate or training here at home . educational institution be allow to substantially expand the number of overseas student without proper compliance check . social care provider be encourage to recruit from abroad with no proper regulation , so we see a serious increase in exploitation , deeply damage for those who come to work here in good faith , and for other worker and responsible company who be be undercut . the rule and law that be suppose to underpin the immigration system be too often ignore . by 2024 , return of people with no right to be in the UK be down by more than a third compare with 2010 , and of course criminal gang be allow to build an entire smuggling industry along our border , undermine security and create a crisis in the asylum system . later this year , we will set out further reform to asylum and border security , and to tackle illegal and irregular migration , build on the new counter - terrorism power in the Border Security , Immigration and Asylum Bill that be before the House this evening , because no one should be make these dangerous crossing on small boat . this White Paper set out how we restore control to the legal migration system so that it be sustainable and fair , and work for the UK . first , we be overhaul the approach to labour market policy , so that for the first time , we properly link the immigration system to skill and training here in the UK . where there be skill or labour shortage in the UK , immigration should not always be the answer to which employer turn . the long - term failure to tackle skill shortage , bring in proper workforce planning , get UK resident back into work , or improve pay , term and condition here at home be bad for our economy as well as for the immigration system , because it undermine productivity and growth . we will lift the threshold for skilled worker visa back to graduate level and above , remove up to 180 different job from the list and increase salary threshold . for lower - skilled job , access to the point - base system will be limit to job that be on a new temporary shortage list , include job that be critical to the industrial strategy , but that access will be time - limited ; there must be a domestic workforce strategy in place , and employer must act to increase domestic recruitment . we will also expect workforce strategy to be draw up more widely in high - skilled area where there be overreliance on recruitment from abroad . to support that work , we will establish a new labour market evidence group . it will bring together skill body from England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland ; the Department for Work and Pensions ; the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council ; and the Migration Advisory Committee to gather and share evidence on shortage occupation in different part of the country , and to highlight the role that skill , training , pay and condition and other policy can play in improve domestic recruitment , so that increase migration be never again the only answer to the shortage that the economy face . this new approach mean that we also need to act on social care . the introduction of the social care visa lead not only to a huge increase in migration , but to a shameful and deeply damaging increase in abuse and exploitation . when proper check be finally bring in , 470 care provider have their licence to sponsor international staff suspend , and 39 , 000 care worker be displace . overseas recruitment to care job have since drop , but it must not surge like that again . it be time we address the domestic issue , include with a proper fair pay agreement , to show respect to people who do some of the most important job in the country . we be therefore end overseas recruitment of care worker . it will continue to be possible to extend exist visa , and to recruit displace care worker and people on other visa , with working right , who be already in the UK . alongside the new visa control and workforce strategy , we will increase by 32 % the immigration skill charge pay by employer who recruit from abroad . that money will be invest through the spending review in support skill and training here in the UK . we will ensure that Britain continue to attract the bright and good global talent by enhance visa route for very high - skilled individual , top scientific and design talent , and people with the right experience to support growth in key strategic industry . international student bring huge benefit to the UK , support our world - lead university and bring in top talent and investment , but we will strengthen compliance requirement and check to prevent visa misuse . too many people on the graduate visa be not do graduate job , so we will reduce the unrestricted period from two year to 18 month . those who want to stay will need to get a graduate job and a skilled worker visa , so that we ensure that they be contribute to the economy . our rule on work visa be base on the contribution we expect people to make when they come to our country , and we will consult later this year on new earn settlement and citizenship rule that apply the same approach . we will extend the principle of the point - base system , double the standard qualifying period for settlement to 10 year , but there will be provision to qualify more swiftly that take account of the contribution people have make . as the ability to speak English be integral to everyone ' s ability to contribute and integrate , we will introduce new , high language requirement across a range of visa route , for both main applicant and their dependant , so that family , too , can work , integrate and contribute . the system for family migration have become overly complex . policy have increasingly develop around case law , follow court decision , rather than be part of a co - ordinate framework set out by Parliament . we will set out a new , clear framework to be endorse by Parliament , which will include clarification of how article 8 rule should be interpret and apply , to prevent confusion or perverse conclusion . we will review current community sponsorship scheme that support recognise refugee , and we will continue to take action against trafficking and modern slavery . we will shortly appoint a new Windrush commissioner to ensure that the lesson from Windrush continue to be learn , and so that the Home Office ensure that its standard be uphold . the rule must be respect and enforce across the board . we will bring in strong control where there be evidence of visa misuse . we be roll out e - visa and digital ID . there will be well use of technology to monitor when people be overstay on their visa , and to support an increase in illegal working raid . already since the election we have increase return , and we will go far . those who come to our country must abide by our law , so we will develop new procedure to ensure that the Home Office be inform of all foreign national who have be convict of offence — not just those who go to prison — so that we can revoke visa and remove perpetrator of a wide range of crime who be abuse our system . we be already reduce the number of visa grant this year ; update figure will be publish before the end of the month . we be increase return . over 24 , 000 people be return in our first nine month in government ; that be the high number of return in a nine - month period for eight year . the impact of the change regard skilled worker visa , care worker visa , settlement , student and english language requirement be expect to be a reduction in visa of around 100 , 000 a year . on top of that , the new workforce strategy , immigration skill charge and family and asylum reform will bring number down , too . as the Prime Minister have say , where we need to go far to restore a sustainable system , we will . throughout our history , Britain have be strengthen by people come here to start new business , study at university , contribute to our cultural and sporting excellence and do some of the tough job in our country . however , to be successful , effective and fair , our immigration must be properly control and manage . the White Paper set out how we will restore control , fairness and order to the system , how we will continue to bring net migration down , and how we will turn the page on the chaos and failure of the past . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement — not that it be necessary , give the extensive leak and pre - briefing . the Prime Minister claim all of a sudden this morning that he want to control immigration . I must say , it come as something of a surprise to I . he seem to have undergo a miraculous conversion , and have apparently repudiate everything he have ever believe . perhaps he be do what he always do : say whatever he think people want to hear at any give point in time . perhaps he see his minus 36 % approval rating , and this White Paper be his desperate response . we know what the Prime Minister really think about immigration , because he have often tell we . he once describe immigration law and border control as racist . he sign a letter oppose the deportation of dangerous foreign criminal , include murderer and rapist . he pledge that he would reintroduce full free movement of people , and he sermonise enthusiastically about the benefit of migration . he even say that the Yarl ' s Wood immigration removal centre should be close down . perhaps the Home Secretary can tell we if she will be follow the Prime Minister ' s advice on that one . give what the Prime Minister really think about immigration , it be no surprise that this Labour Government have preside over the bad start to a year for the number of illegal immigrant cross the english channel in history ; that number be up 30 % since the election last year . it have be the bad start to a year ever , and it happen under this Labour Government . it be also no surprise that this plan be so weak that it barely scratch the surface . on its first page , it seek to create a false impression . it say — the Home Secretary repeat this — that " visa application be down … 40 % " since the election , imply that that be somehow down to the Government . why be visa application actually down by 40 % ? because of the change make by the last government , which come into force in April 2024 . from the previous peak , net migration be already forecast to reduce by about half a million . if the Home Secretary be all of a sudden so keen on reduce migration , will she explain why she suspend the conservative plan to increase the family visa threshold to £ 38 , 000 ? that be due to come into force last month . when will that change now be introduce ? the truth be that this plan be weak and will have little impact . the Home Secretary admit on Laura Kuenssberg ' s programme yesterday that the measure will reduce net migration by only 50 , 000 , which be just one 10th of the impact of the previous conservative change . the honest truth be that we need to go much far than this White Paper do . immigration need to come down a lot more . under new leadership , the conservative party be take a new approach . [ interruption . ] Labour member can vote on this later , if they be so keen . high immigration have put pressure on housing , public service , social cohesion and the economy . mass low - wage , low - skilled migration undermine our economy ' s productivity and cost other taxpayer money , because low - wage migrant consume service that cost the Exchequer more than they pay in tax , particularly where there be dependant , so we need to go much far . that be why later today the House will vote on two conservative proposal in amendment to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . [ interruption . ] I can see Labour member be excited about the prospect . the first amendment would create a bind annual cap on migration , to be set and vote on democratically by this Parliament . it would allow full democratic parliamentary control over migration number , deliver complete transparency and ensure that immigration be drastically reduce . I see the Minister for Border Security and Asylum talk enthusiastically on the Front Bench ; I assume that mean that she will support the measure . the second amendment would repeal the Human Rights Act 1998 from all immigration matter . we would not just tinker with article 8 , as the Home Secretary say she will , but stop foreign criminal , and other who have no right to be here , abuse human right law in UK court , include article 3 . I have a simple question for the Home Secretary . she win ' t answer it . I will try anyway . if the Home Secretary be really serious about control immigration , will she vote later today for the immigration cap , and will she vote to repeal the Human Rights Act for all immigration matter ? I must have miss a bit of the shadow Home Secretary ' s response — the bit , maybe at the beginning , when he apologise to the House and the country for his party ' s policy , which quadruple net migration in just four year . he tell we his concern about the level of migration ; his party be responsible for that huge increase in net migration . I must have also miss the bit when the shadow Home Secretary confess that from the point at which he become an immigration Minister in 2020 — when all these policy be introduce — to the point at which the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , finish be immigration Minister in 2023 , net migration rise from 170 , 000 a year to 870 , 000 a year . I must have miss that confession , and that apology , which the shadow Home Secretary should have make . until he admit his failure and apologise for the damage and chaos that he and his party cause , no one will take seriously a single word that he say . the shadow Home Secretary refer to visa change that be make before the election . we support change make by the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , but he have to reverse some of the change that the shadow Home Secretary make when he be an immigration Minister . as for a cap , the White Paper provide for cap on low - skilled migration on the temporary shortage list . the right hon . Gentleman ' s target and cap be as meaningless as all the other one that his party introduce when they be in government . indeed , let I quote from the time of the Conservative Government ' s reform that cause a lot of these problem : " I especially thank the Home Secretary for remove the annual limit on work visa and on international student : I lobby for both " . — [ Official Report , 19 December 2018 ; Vol . 651 , c . 815 . ] that be the current Leader of the Opposition , so the idea that that lot have anything to offer be like people who burgle your house and then turn up the next day and offer to sell you a dog . if the conservative be serious about make the change and serious about tackle small boat , they should vote for our counter - terrorism power to tackle the smuggler gang that the right hon . Gentleman and the other right - wing party have repeatedly vote against . that be not serious . this Government be . I be proud to represent the diverse and vibrant constituency of Vauxhall and Camberwell Green — a place where so many people from around the world have choose to make their home and a place where so many people contribute to our community , day in , day out . since this announcement , I have be contact by several constituent who be currently on a work visa and look at their path for a way towards indefinite leave to remain . they be understandably worried about where this uncertainty leave they . they be worried about their future plan . one even tell I that they be so worried that they be consider leave the UK , because their settle status here be in jeopardy , so can the Home Secretary please outline whether this policy apply to people who be already live and work in the UK , or will it apply just to new visa applicant ? my hon . friend be right to say that there be people work in all kind of job across the country and contribute to our economy and to our community who have travel here from all over the world , and that be hugely important . we will set out further detail of the earn settlement and citizenship reform later this year , and we will consult on they . there will be plenty of opportunity for people to comment on and consider the detail , but it be important that we extend the sense of contribution and the point - base system to those reform as well . we have also say that we will maintain the current five - year route for those who have come on a dependant visa or a family visa , as part of maintain family . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . immigration be personal to all of we , whether we be immigrant ourselves , the descendant of immigrant , or benefit from the skill , talent and cultural richness that immigrant bring . I be immensely proud that our country take in my nan , age 18 , when she be flee the Nazis in 1939 . I be also hugely grateful that the senior surgeon who do my dad ' s kidney transplant operation bring his skill and talent to our country , have be bear elsewhere . yes , the Conservative Government make a total mess of our immigration system . their chaotic and dishonest approach of make and break headline - grab target shatter public trust and leave the system in tatter . the line I agree with most in the Government White Paper publish this morning be that the immigration system must be " fair and effective " . what the Conservatives leave behind be nowhere close to either . Change be need , and that mean rebuild an immigration system that work for our country and our economy , while treat everyone with dignity and respect . of course , that must be couple with a clear plan to make it easy to recruit british worker to fill those vacancy instead , and I would welcome more detail from the Home Secretary on how her government will achieve this to ensure that these change do not have unintended consequence for our economy and , in particular , for our health and social care system . will this include finally implement the Lib Dem proposal for a high minimum wage for carer to reflect the skill level really involve in caring profession ? we also need to move away from the chaotic chopping and change of immigration rule that we see under the Conservatives , so will the Home Secretary provide further clarity on when these change will be bring forward , include a clear timetable for any change to visa rule , so that employer — and the worker and their family , who we be talk about today — can plan for their future ? the hon . member be right that we need to boost training and skill here in the UK alongside these strong control . on social care , we will introduce a fair pay agreement . it be important that the vital job of those who look after our love one in social care be properly respect . on the timetable , some of these measure will require primary legislation and further consultation , while other will be bring in more swiftly — include , for example , some of the change to the skilled worker threshold . to give she an example of the approach we want to take , construction worker will be on the temporary shortage list because they be clearly crucial to growth in our economy . however , that have to happen alongside respect for the workforce strategy , which be why the Education Secretary have set out proposal to train 60 , 000 more construction worker here in the UK . this Labour Government inherit disorder at the border : a broken system where criminal gang , dodgy employer and fake college too often decide who come into this country . will the Home Secretary give the court the power to deport and the university and college the resource to train our young people , and will she have a system that encourage the bright and the good to come to this country and rebuild Britain ? my hon . friend make an important point . we want to make the procedure easy for the deportation of foreign criminal and for increase return of those who have no right to be in the UK . that be why we will change the procedure that we inherit . he be also right that we need to ensure that the good international talent can come swiftly to the UK . that be why we will be set out further reform for the high talent route as well . the Home Secretary , in her statement , say that the visa change she be put in place will reduce net migration by 100 , 000 people a year . the House of Commons Library have figure that say the visa change that I bring in would reduce net migration by 300 , 000 people per year — so would she concede that her proposal be only a third as effective as mine ? nice try ! the right hon . Member be in the Cabinet that massively increase net migration and push the number up . he then belatedly have to attempt to restrict and reverse some — but just some — of the change that he and his colleague have previously endorse and put before the country . the fact be he still never tackle the Conservatives ' fundamental approach : the free market experiment of encourage people to recruit from abroad but never support training and condition here in the UK . fundamentally , that mean that he be desperately try to close the door and deal with the problem without any proper strategy and without understand why we need those link with skill and training in the first place . we have to recognise the important way in which migration have always support our economy , and that it will continue to do so , but it have to be properly control and manage — he do not do that . the Tories promise net migration in the ten of thousand and leave it at about 1 million . reform ' s predecessor , the UK Independence party , promise that Brexit would fix immigration — that didn ' t work out , do it ? the Home Secretary be therefore absolutely right to take a reasoned , evidence - base approach to fix the immigration system . I welcome her emphasis on the contribution that immigrant make — national health service worker in Newcastle from different background and those start up great business in this country must still feel welcome — but she be also right to critique our country ' s dependence on immigration for growth and the impact that have on productivity . will she say a little more about how she will break that link ? my hon . friend make an important point . if the response to any labour or skill shortage be too often simply to turn to migration without address their cause — which might relate to pay and condition , lack of training , lack of workforce planning and a whole series of different thing — all that happen be that UK productivity fall . alongside ensure that we get the skill we need and that we benefit from international talent , we must invest to tackle domestic training and skill failure . that be what the increase in the immigration skill charge will help we to do . surely the most immediate challenge be illegal migration across the channel , which be enrage our constituent , but the Home Secretary ' s Government have kick away the tough deterrent measure that they inherit from the previous Government . there be three critical measure that she should take : the first be to work incredibly closely with all our european partner ; the second be to look hard at international convention , particularly the 1951 Geneva convention ; and the third — and in many way the most important — be to work on the upstream problem at source . increasingly , people be migrate in large number from the Sahel in north Africa , flee violence , starvation and extreme poverty . do she accept that she and her european counterpart must lift their ambition and move towards a modern - day equivalent of a Marshall plan if we be to solve this long - term and increasingly serious issue ? I agree with the right hon . member that we must do more upstream to tackle some of the cause of dangerous journey . we clearly need to act on the criminal smuggler gang who be exploit people and undermine our border security — that be why the legislation on counter - terrorism power that we will debate tonight be so important — but we also need to do much more work with european partner . we have be work with France , for example , to get it to agree to change its rule so that , for the first time , it will start to intervene in french water to prevent dangerous boat crossing . I agree with he about the importance of the Sahel and work upstream . we have establish a new joint unit between the Home Office and the Foreign Office in order to do some of the work to which he refer . if I be to get in as many member as possible , we will need pithy question and short answer , please . for a masterclass in that , I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I represent a constituency that be enrich and sustain every day by people who have come from overseas to make their home here , especially those who come as member of the Windrush generation . it be important that they hear from this place that they be not only value and appreciate but part of we . last week , the Office for student publish another report on the precarious situation face our university . this announcement include a levy on university in relation to their international student . what engagement have the Home Secretary have with her counterpart at the Department for Education on the impact of her measure on the financial sustainability of university ? my hon . friend be right . british citizen have heritage from all over the world , and people come here as part of the Windrush generation . we will shortly appoint the Windrush commissioner to ensure that Home Office standard be uphold and that that contribution , through generation , be properly recognise and respect in our country . the White Paper set out that we will explore the international student levy . that work , which be be lead by the Education Secretary , will consider how we can ensure that investment go into support skill in the UK . the Home Secretary speak about attract the good and the bright to this country . one area in which our university do that be the medical profession . during the covid crisis and the rebuilding after it , a lot of the people on the frontline be immigrant . when she look at the resettlement and reassurance of exist migrant , will she consider indefinite leave to remain for those who work through that crisis ? the hon . Member make an important point about the contribution make by those who save life and care for our love one during the pandemic — one of our most difficult period . we need to respect and recognise those contribution . there will be plenty of opportunity for everyone to contribute to the consultation on change to the earn settlement and citizenship rule . a report on the economic impact of the University of Edinburgh find that its education export alone amount to £ 1 . 8 billion in the 2021 - 22 academic year . what engagement will my right hon . friend have with the university to ensure that the proposal bring forward today do not have any adverse impact on our world - class university and their local economic impact ? my hon . friend be right that international student make a huge contribution to our country and our economy and that university be often very important to the local economy as well , but it be really important that proper standard be meet . there have be case of some institution not meet the right high standard of compliance , and evidence that recruitment be not meet high standard and people be misuse the visa , come for other reason and not complete course . we need those standard to be meet , because that be how we will underpin and maintain confidence in international student and in our world - class university , which be hugely important to our economy . there be very little of substance in the detail of the Government White Paper that come out over the weekend , and the Home Secretary have rather confirm that impression today , but there be two big - ticket item on which my local authority and my local training provider would like some answer . first , from where will the uplift in training be finance and when will that money arrive ? I be sure Trowbridge college in my constituency will be very interested to hear about that . secondly , do the Home Secretary anticipate that authority provide statutory service will pay for the fair pay agreement , which presumably mean council tax payer , or will she be provide the money out of the block grant ? on training , this Government be already go considerably far than the previous Government , who allow training to be cut , include in adult education and adult skill , at the same time as net migration figure be substantially increase . already we be fund training for 60 , 000 more construction worker as part of our growth plan and workforce strategy , and the White Paper — I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will love the chance to read it and see all the substance in it — set out proposal for a 32 % increase in the immigration skill charge that will go into skill and training in the UK . when serious legislation that could be contentious be be introduce , it be critically important that minister use language carefully . the Prime Minister refer to " an island of stranger " , reflect the language of Enoch Powell . do the Home Secretary realise how shockingly divisive that could be ? the point that the Prime Minister have repeatedly make be that people need to be able to integrate , to become part of our community and to share with our neighbour , and that mean be able to speak English . that be very important , and it be why we be increase the english language standard , not just for main visa applicant but for partner , spouse and adult dependant , because too often people unable to speak English have be isolate in community , and that can also lead to great exploitation . today ' s announcement , with all that appalling , dehumanising language from the Prime Minister , could not be more contrary to Scotland ' s national interest . we have a population and demography crisis just now . we can not get an adequate work - age population to look after our old cohort . why be the Home Secretary introduce an immigration system that be contrary to everything that we need in Scotland ? why do she not give we the power to grow our economy and public service , and why do she not give a jot about Scotland ? I gently say to the hon . member that a series of labour market issue need to be address . as he will know , Scotland ' s labour market face challenge when net migration be at 900 , 000 — that level of net migration do not solve the issue across Scotland ' s labour market . there be a serious issue about what should happen about skill , training and different workforce strategy across Scotland . we have be clear that the skill ' body and the devolve government from Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland need to be part of the labour market evidence group , so that we can have a broad strategy that will properly deal with the labour market challenge that we face . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s emphasis on the contribution of migrant ; historically , the city of Liverpool have be make up of migrant . I welcome the White Paper and her statement today , in particular link migration to labour market strategy , because migration be a key economic lever of the state . do she agree with I that it be not a left or right issue , but part of the loss of trust in democratic politic , and that we need an asylum and immigration system that have , most importantly , democratic consent ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of trust and confidence , because when people feel that the system be not work or be not under control , or that there be a huge gap between rhetoric and reality , trust be undermine . for generation , people have value the work of those who have come to the UK in order to work , contribute , study and be part of community , but it have to be control and manage . it have not be control and manage , and that have undermine confidence too . I know a gimmick when I see one , and we have see one here today . the Home Secretary say that net migration must come down , but she do not say to what level or by when . what do she think the cap should be ? I be not sure the right hon . Lady ' s Front - Bench team can answer that question . we have make clear that net migration need to reduce substantially . we have year of target from the previous government which all fail and be all over the place , which undermine confidence . we should address the issue of confidence by take a different approach : step by step , we will make progress and deliver , rather than just add to the talk and the rhetoric . Lancaster University , like all of the lead university in the UK , rely on operate in a global market , not just for international student , but for academic staff . many of those staff have be in touch with I already today and they be feel upset by some of the language that have be use , particularly around the use of the phrase " island of stranger " . will the Home Secretary say something to my constituent who very much contribute to the economy of Lancaster and to our cultural enrichment ? I draw my hon . friend ' s attention to the word in my statement : in recent year and through many generation , people have come to the UK , contribute to and build our community , and they be part of the country that we be today . that be who we be and it be important . it be important that we ensure that when people come to the UK , they can speak English so that they can talk to each other and be part of a community , because in area where people have not be able to speak English , we have often see some of the bad exploitation . this be about recognise the importance of migration , but ensure that the system be fair . the Home Secretary will be aware that five year ago I warn that if we do not leave the european convention on human right and immediately deport those who arrive in Dover via small boat , there would be an invasion . sure enough , I be right . already today , a further 600 young man have be process through Dover , perhaps the odd iranian terrorist among they — who know ? [ interruption . ] do the Home Secretary accept that the Government ' s policy of " smash the gang " be a complete and total failure ? if that be the case , why should we believe anything else that they say ? no one should be make these dangerous boat crossing : they undermine our border security and put life at risk . criminal gang be make a fortune , profit from organise these dangerous boat crossing . that be why we need counter terrorism - style power to be able to go after the gang . there be the opportunity for the hon . Gentleman and his party to vote for those counter - terrorism power tonight , so that we can strengthen our border security . previously , he and his party vote against those counter - terrorism power . I think we need counter terrorism - style power to strengthen our border security in order to be able to go after those criminal gang . do he ? the opposition like to talk about and obsess over cap . do the Home Secretary agree that it might have be sensible for the previous Government to place a cap on the number of home Secretaries they have to churn through to deliver their fail open - border project ? my hon . friend be right . I think the previous Government have eight home Secretaries in the space of eight year , and two of they be the same person . without a third country such as Rwanda , can the Home Secretary tell the House where illegal immigrant whose country of origin can not be establish , because they have destroy their documentation , will be deport to ? be it the case that they can not be deport , and anyone who exploit that loophole can stay here with impunity ? this Government have increase return since the election ; there have be 24 , 000 return since the election . that include an increase of more than 20 % in fail asylum case . it also include action we be take to deal with people who claim to have lose their paper and to ensure that we can deliver those return . we will continue to support other policy , include work with the EU on issue around return hub . the Conservatives have two year to run their Rwanda scheme . they spend £ 700 million and send four volunteer . that be a waste of money , a failure for the taxpayer and a fail delivery . I welcome this statement , particularly the measure outline to streamline deportation process and ensure that they be fast , fair and effective . can the Secretary of State remind the House what happen to level of removal , include of foreign national offender , on the Conservatives ' watch ? return drop by around a third under the previous Conservative Government . I think that be very damaging ; I think the rule should be respect and enforce . we have inherit a system in which it seem the only people they try to remove or to get information on be those who have be convict and have prison sentence . we believe that we need information much more widely and a fast process to ensure that the rule and the law be uphold . give that lengthy A & E , cancer treatment and ambulance waiting time in Cumbria be a direct result of the lack of social care worker , mean that our hospital be full to burst , what assessment have the Home Secretary make of the damage that this policy could do to patient and NHS worker in my community , where the most regular experience we have of migrant be that they care for we and our loved one ? we need to support social care and recognise the importance of that job . that mean tackle the long - term recruitment issue here in the UK , not simply always think that we can ignore those problem and turn to migration instead . the hon . Gentleman will know that there have be huge problem , include abuse and exploitation , as a result of that route . some 39 , 000 people who come here on a care worker visa , often in good faith , end up be displace when check be finally introduce . that be why regional hub have be introduce to ensure that employer can still recruit from those displace worker , rather than continue to recruit from abroad . migrant be be scapegoate for problem they do not cause . to be truthful , these arbitrary measure will not fix those problem , but they will harm migrant , people who need social care , our economy and anyone who fear racial abuse , which the rhetoric surround this issue embolden . why be we try to ape Reform , when that will do nothing to improve our constituent ' life and will just stoke more division ? in the space of just four year , we see a huge increase in overseas recruitment at exactly the same time that training in the UK fall . it be a real problem in the UK labour market to have such steep increase in overseas recruitment at the same time as we have such deep problem with training . that be why it be so important to ensure that for the first time , we link the immigration system with training and skill . that have not happen before ; we have have the wrong approach to the labour market , and it be right that we bring in these reform . of course , my hon . friend be right that we should also recognise the huge contribution that people make as part of our country . respect people for the contribution they make should be embed in our system , but we have to change this broken approach to the labour market . the Prime Minister ' s " island of stranger " speech sound like something straight out of the Reform - trump playbook . rather than alienate and devalue migrant , and recognise the need to increase the number of Brits who want to work in our health and care sector , would the Home Secretary not prefer to support Unison ' s campaign for a certificate of common sponsorship ? such a certificate would protect the work right of migrant worker who be work in unacceptable situation of exploitation that border on slavery and who be at threat of deportation . as a Labour Member , would she not prefer to support that campaign ? in the White Paper , we highlight the importance of tackle exploitation , which be deeply damaging for those who have come to the UK in good faith , as well as for other employer . we want to explore how we can make it easy for people to not be hold to a single employer when there be problem with the sponsorship arrangement . we want to make that system more effective so that it can tackle exploitation . I welcome today ' s White Paper , which bring substantive reform to our immigration system after over a decade of expensive rhetoric . can the Home Secretary set out what further reform to our asylum and appeal system the Government be consider to deal with the ludicrous hotel situation that the last Government leave we with ? my hon . friend be right ; we need to end asylum hotel , which mean that we have to clear the shocking backlog that the previous Government leave we with — they just stop take asylum decision in the last few month in the run - up to the election . another measure we be introduce be new statutory timetable for appeal , because the appeal system be cause a lot of the hold - up in the backlog . we need that measure ; it be part of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill that member will be able to vote on tonight . that be why I hope all party in the House will support that Bill . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement . it be in the national interest that the Government get this right ; I hope that that will happen , but to be honest I be not convince yet , and we have not see much of the detail . I also support the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) and his concern about national security , which be something that should be take more seriously . this year , 10 , 500 people — illegal migrant — have cross the english channel . that be a record number for this period of time compare with any previous year , and I see nothing in the Prime Minister ' s early leak statement or , indeed , in the Home Secretary ' s statement about a deterrent . without a deterrent , we can have all the counter - terrorism command , all the new law and all the great statement in the world , but nothing be go to change . this evening , member will be able to vote for a border security Bill that include counter - terrorism power to tackle criminal smuggler gang . when we host the Interpol conference before Christmas , the Prime Minister say that border security be a national security issue , and need to be take seriously as such . that be why we need those counter - terrorism power — it be why we need our police , the National Crime Agency , Border Force and border authority to be able to intervene much early to take action against this dangerous trade in people that undermine our national security as well as our border security . I hope the right hon . Gentleman will vote for the Bill tonight . the public have be wait for 15 year to hear a Government set out a serious strategy to get a grip on the legal migration system so that it work for public confidence , for the economy and for migrant themselves . I welcome the measure that the Home Secretary have announce in relation to the health and social care visa , because this have not only be very disruptive for the labour market but have lead to instance of extreme exploitation and modern slavery . will she commit herself to ensure that these new measure be fully modern - slavery - proof in the White Paper ? I welcome what my hon . friend have say . there have be shameful example of exploitation , which all of we have probably come across in our constituency , involve the social care visa and the way in which it be introduce . People have come here to work incredibly hard in our care home , which be why it be so important for we to tackle that exploitation and ensure that standard be meet . we must ensure that we have a fair pay agreement , and , certainly , that we maintain the standard relate to tackle trafficking and modern slavery . the Home Secretary will be aware of the funding crisis that affect many of the UK ' s university . last year , when the Migration Advisory Committee review the graduate visa route , it conclude that it should be retain , state : " under the current high education funding model , closure or additional restriction could put many university at financial risk . " what be the Home Secretary ' s assessment of the impact that these change will have on the financial sustainability of our university ? where university be already meet high standard of compliance , as most of they be , that be very welcome , but those that do not currently meet they will need to raise their compliance standard to ensure that we have a proper , robust system . the graduate visa will enable people to stay on for the unrestricted 18 month , but if they want to stay long they will need to be contribute in graduate job . too often people have stay without do that , although they have degree and should therefore be obtain graduate job , which they can also do through the skilled worker visa . do the Secretary of State agree that the good way in which to address the soar level of migration for work purpose be to properly train and up - skill our domestic worker in constituency such as mine ? how will these measure contribute to the achievement of that aim ? my hon . friend be exactly right . in Mansfield and throughout the country , we need training and skill . the immigration skill charge proposal mean that employer who recruit from abroad will have to contribute more towards training and skill in the UK . as well as be part of the temporary shortage list , sector in which there be persistent shortage — and there will be such sector , which be still crucial to the economy — will , for the first time , need to have proper workforce strategy in place set out what action they be take to improve and increase domestic recruitment and training so that it benefit UK resident who need to be part of our labour force . a care provider in my constituency have already be in touch , say that a third of his worker be from overseas and be deliver about 60 % of the work . he will be unable to care for 80 of his 120 client . he have be hit by horrendous national insurance contribution , and have invest thousand of pound in the model . in the absence of any adult social care plan , the Government be now effectively cap the number of worker . how can we plug the gap very quickly , and will care provider be properly support with funding to allow these change to happen ? the care provider in the hon . member ' s constituency will be able to extend the care visa and will also be able to recruit displace care worker , of whom there be 39 , 000 when the proper new check and standard be introduce . he will also be able to recruit from the local community , with a proper fair pay agreement in place . we must have a strategy that value social care and deal with some of the historical cause of recruitment , rather than the social care visa lead to recruitment from abroad at a scale that lead to significant exploitation . do the Secretary of State agree that far from be stranger , migrant be our neighbour , friend and family and an integral part of our community , and that move to cast they as stranger be divisive and hostile and risk legitimise the same far - right violence that we see in last year ' s summer riot ? have we learn nothing ? as I say in my statement , people have come here from abroad through many generation , contribute to our economy , be part of our community and make our country what it be . that be who we be as a country because of that history , and it will continue to be important to our future . we want people to be able to integrate and share with neighbour , and that be why some of the provision to ensure that we support integration and the use of the english language be also important . how do the immigration White Paper address the significant number of pull factor currently advertise online ? the Government ' s own website www . gov . uk / asylum - support / what - you ll - get be there for any aspirational English - speak asylum seeker to see just why it be worth run the risk of cross the channel . it state : " you ' ll be give somewhere to live if you need it . this could be in a flat , house , hostel or bed and breakfast … you ' ll usually get £ 49 . 18 for each person in your household . this will help you pay for thing you need like food , clothing and toiletry … your allowance will be load onto a debit card … each week . " order . please can we get to the question ? what be the Government do to address the online advertising of this incredibly generous package ? we inherit an asylum system that be in complete chaos . that be why we be reduce the backlog , and why we have take action to tackle instance of visa misuse . in a number of country there have be an increase in asylum application , although people have come here lawfully on visa as well . we will continue to tackle that , and we will introduce new reform alongside the White Paper on legal migration . last year , the now Home Secretary visit the Betty Berkins caf é in my constituency to discuss the very matter of the massive increase in overseas recruitment while the investment in our domestic workforce be fall drastically , contribute to the quadrupling of the net migration figure between 2019 and 2023 . do she agree that the good way in which to address soar migration specifically for work purpose be to train and upskill our domestic workforce properly through measure that already exist in our groundbreake Employment Rights Bill ? how will the measure propose today contribute to that work , and to the achievement of the overall aim ? my hon . friend be right : we need proper training and skill . a system in which the number of engineering visa could rise while the number of engineering apprenticeship fall do not make any sense to anyone , which be why we must ensure that we not only have the training and skill but link they with the shortage and with the immigration system as well . the House be right to be sceptical about a policy on a toxic issue that have be announce after the Government have suffer a significant electoral defeat in which the main issue be immigration . can the Home Secretary tell we how deliverable many element of this policy be ? what will happen to the hundred of thousand who be currently in graduate - level employment ? how will the gap between recruiting and train people and get they into job be fill ? give that the court will not even allow the deportation of people who have serve long prison sentence , how do the Home Secretary expect they to comply with her wish to deport people who have serve no prison sentence ? we be implement the policy and commitment make in our manifesto to restore control and order to the immigration system so that we can bring net migration down and ensure that the system be fair . as part of the change that we be introduce as a result of the White Paper , we have identify up to 180 low - skilled occupation that should not be recruit from abroad and should not be part of the temporary shortage list either , so that we can reduce the lower - skilled migration that have increase so substantially over the last four year , support skill and training , and tackle those labour market challenge . with net migration at 1 . 7 million over the last two year of the previous Government , people in Bassetlaw tell I that they be feed up with the pressure that uncontrolle immigration have put on our local infrastructure . the Prime Minister have recognise this today , with a clear commitment to reduce net migration and take back control of our border . I congratulate my right hon . friend on this landmark cross - Government White Paper , which will fix the mess leave by the Conservative party . do she agree that we need to stop the reliance on import worker from abroad and focus on properly train british people instead ? my hon . friend be right to say that this be a cross - Government approach . it link to the work that the Work and Pensions Secretary be do on help people back into work , the work that the Education Secretary be do on boost training , and the work that the Business Secretary be do on build up our industrial strategy so that we can plan for the workforce of the future . this be a cross - Government approach , which be how we will make sure that we have control of our migration system and boost the productivity of the economy . what be it about the local election result that first attract the Home Secretary to the idea of rush out an immigration White Paper ? even I could not draw up a White Paper in the space of two week . this White Paper be announce by the Prime Minister before Christmas when we see the scale of the huge increase in net migration that the hon . Gentleman ' s party have preside over . it be implement the policy that we set out in our manifesto to properly link the immigration system with training and skill in the UK . I be proud to represent this country ' s only human right city , where everybody be welcome and every life be of equal worth . our economy depend very much on our university , and our university depend on international student — in fact , employer come to our country because of the diversity of our student . will the Home Secretary properly consult the high education sector — the second big export from my constituency be high education — to ensure that we do not harm our local economy and the opportunity for both international and home student ? I strongly value international student ' contribution to our economy . my hon . friend be completely right to say how important international student be , but we also need to make sure that university uphold standard by ensure that system be not misuse , so that we can continue to support international student . it will benefit our economy if student who stay on afterwards be also do graduate job . one of the thing I have appreciate about this Government ' s approach be the moderate tone of language that they have take on really divisive cultural issue , but I be afraid I be disappointed to hear the Prime Minister use the phrase " island of stranger " today . we all remember the deleterious effect on public debate after the " citizen of nowhere " speech , and I be concerned that we be go in the same direction . can the Home Secretary offer I any reassurance ? the approach that we set out in our manifesto , and that we have set out in this White Paper , be about how we properly control and manage the migration system so that it benefit the UK and support community cohesion by support integration , ensure that people can speak English and , as a result , challenge exploitation . the approach that we be take be about embed fairness and community cohesion at the heart of our immigration system . too often , integration and community cohesion have not be part of the immigration system , and this White Paper make sure that they be . I recently visit a care company that express serious concern about bogus organisation register as care provider in order to sponsor individual through the health and care visa . this not only undercut legitimate care provider that pay and treat their staff properly , but raise significant concern about the potential exploitation of worker enter the UK . what step be the Home Secretary plan to take to clamp down on fraudulent practice and support reputable british care company ? my hon . friend be right to say that the kind of exploitation that we have see have be deeply damaging for people who have come to this country in good faith . like he , I have speak to people who travel from far overseas , only to discover that there be no job for they when they arrive . they have sometimes be charge money and be at a huge risk of exploitation . as well as take action with the Fair Work Agency and other to tackle exploitation more widely , we think it be right to end the overseas recruitment of care worker , and to support the care sector through the fair pay agreement and through improve support here in the UK . rise — Order . I intend to allow this statement to continue until 6 . 15 pm . I appreciate that many member might be disappoint . my constituency of Broxbourne have a hotel that be use to house illegal asylum seeker . this have place huge pressure on local GP surgery and school , which be already overstretch , and my constituent and I have have enough . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss this issue , and can she tell I when the hotel house illegal asylum seeker in my constituency of Broxbourne will close ? the hon . Member will know that the previous Government introduce asylum hotel because they have lose control of the asylum system . this Government be clear that we need to end asylum hotel . to do that , we need to clear the backlog and make reform to the appeal system . again , we inherit a broken system for deal with asylum appeal , and we be take through reform tonight as part of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . I hope he will vote for those reform so that we can end asylum hotel . my constituency of Hampstead and Highgate have a proud history of welcome refugee , whether it be migrant from Ireland back in the day or people flee political persecution in Nazi Germany . more recently , they open their door to refugee from Afghanistan and Ukraine . I welcome the Government ' s measure to enable refugee to access skilled worker visa . however , what be the Home Secretary ' s plan for refugee whose work visa will expire , but who can not return to their country of origin ? will they be eligible for settle status , and how will the Government guarantee their safety in the UK ? my hon . friend be right to say that we have support people from Ukraine , Hong Kong and Afghanistan who have flee persecution or conflict — or , in the case of Afghans , those who support and work with our armed force . that will continue to be important . we want refugee to be able to apply for the skilled worker visa in the way that other people be able to do . as she rightly say , there be people who will be in this country when the circumstance in their home country change . in those circumstance , there need to be provision either through the asylum system or through their be able to reapply for their visa . the Home Secretary will be aware that our high education sector be world lead because it bring in the bright and the good from around the world , include researcher , scientist and medical staff . she will also be aware that university be struggle because of Home Office rule — not least Dundee University , which have suffer million of pound - worth of loss . will she please take my invitation to come to Dundee so that she can see the direct consequence that her Department ' s policy be have on that university ? international student have bring huge benefit . they contribute by bring investment , as well as skill and talent , and university be important part of local economy right across the country . however , it be important that all university meet the proper standard of visa compliance . the vast majority do , but some have not meet the compliance standard , and we urge they to do so . we will work with they , include by set out action plan . we also want student who stay in this country after they finish their course to get graduate job , so that they can properly contribute to our economy . Peterborough be a generous and warm place , and our city and public service have be make rich by the people who have come and make their home in community alongside I and other . however , too many people and too many working - class family often feel that the system be rig against they when it come to skill and wage . will my right hon . friend tell we a bit more about the work she will do on the White Paper with Skills England , the Department for Education and other to ensure we boost apprenticeship ? will she also keep high on her mind and reiterate to this House the desire to tackle illegal immigration , and to ensure that hotel such as the Dragonfly in my constituency be stand down as soon as possible ? we do need to increase apprenticeship and training , which be why we be support 60 , 000 more construction worker to go through training to support our economy , alongside , as my hon . friend rightly say , plan to make sure we end asylum hotel . in answer to the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , the Home Secretary refuse to say whether her proposal to reform indefinite leave to remain , brief to the medium as a tough new crackdown , will apply to immigrant who be already here . if it do not apply to people already here , it make a mockery of the very idea of reform , so will the Home Secretary answer very clearly : will the new rule apply to exist immigrant or just those come in in future ? we want the settlement rule to be amend as swiftly as possible and to apply widely , but we will consult on the detail , and it be right that we do so . I say to the hon . member that this be just one of the many thing we need to do to clear up the chaos that his party leave . after 14 year of broken promise , I warmly welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement on bring down net migration . with one in eight young people not in education , employment or training , will she set out to the family and young people in my constituency what this White Paper will do for they ? one of the most important aspect of the White Paper will be the increase in the immigration skill charge , mean that where employer be recruit from abroad and there be shortage occupation , they will be contribute more to support skill and training here in the UK , include support for our young people to get the apprenticeship and job they need . the announcement today will deepen social care workforce shortage and risk harm to those who receive care . have the Government consider the impact on the sick , the frail and the elderly who rely on care worker to provide vital support ? will the Government publish an impact assessment set out the effect of their reform , and what will they do for the quality and availability of care and about the work of the Casey commission ? as I point out in my statement , the number of care worker recruit from abroad have fall since the initial big increase , and it be important to prevent such an increase take place again , because we have see significant exploitation . as a result of introduce high standard , 39 , 000 care worker be displace : they come here to do job that either do not exist or do not meet the right standard . we urge care provider to recruit from the pool of people who be already here . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and for the step she be take to bring order to the chaotic immigration system we inherit . I want to ask a question in the context of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . university in Edinburgh be on their knee because of change the Tory Government make to immigration and because of SNP cut to the sector . the staff be keen to contribute to economic growth in the UK , but they be concerned that what be in the White Paper may make that hard . can she commit to work across Government to ensure that our university come out of this strong so that they can contribute to economic growth ? my hon . friend may be aware that the big increase in the number of student visa be often for lower - rank university in the league table , and people often do not do graduate job afterwards . we hugely support international student , and he be right to refer to Edinburgh University and other university across the country . we want to work with university to ensure that high standard of compliance be meet , and that when international student stay in the UK they be do graduate job . could the Home Secretary explain why , in the introduction of this White Paper , the language of Enoch Powell be use by the Prime Minister ? there have be no speak up about the enormous value of migration to this country , which have keep our NHS running , our education service run and so much more , and that there be already 130 , 000 vacancy in the care sector . do anything in her White Paper do anything to improve community relation or deal with the labour shortage now in the NHS and the care service , or be it all about try to please these people — reform Members — who unfortunately sit in front of I ? at the very beginning of my statement to this House , I talk about the importance of those who have come to work in our NHS , to serve in our armed force , to work in constituency like mine in coalmine job , and to do some of the most difficult job of all . however , it be because migration be important that it need to be control and manage , and we need to tackle the underlie problem in the labour market . net migration quadruple in four year at a time when domestic training be cut , and when we do not have support for skill and training in the UK . I think that show a system that just be not work . we have to tackle training and skill shortage , alongside bring down net migration . my constituent be sick and tired of broken promise on immigration . five conservative Prime Ministers promise to cut arrival while deliberately let number reach record high . can the Secretary of State confirm to the people of North Warwickshire and Bedworth that the broken promise be over , and that when this Government say that we will cut immigration level and invest in skill and training , and in good job for my constituent , that be exactly what we will do ? my hon . friend make a really important point . we be set out practical plan on the skilled worker visa , construction training job , and an immigration skill charge , so that we can invest in training . it be through those practical , common - sense plan that , step by step , we will restore order to the immigration system and bring down net migration . the White Paper talk in vague term about potential change that build on and learn from the displace talent programme . will the Home Secretary be really clear with the House about where she see those change go ? more importantly , what safeguard will she put in place to ensure that any such change do not act as a massive magnet for those who wish to illegally enter our country ? I think the opposite of what the hon . Member say be true . we have talk about capped and limited scheme . at the moment , it be possible for people from other part of the world to apply for a skilled worker visa if they have the talent — for example , if they be an engineer or a scientist — but recognise refugee be often not able to apply for skilled worker visa as scientist , doctor and so on , even though they have that skill and talent . we should ensure that we do our bit to help refugee , who should be able to come in on a skilled worker visa when they have the skill to do so . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . can I seek advice on how I can withdraw my ten - minute rule Bill on protect the job title of " nurse " , which be due for its second reading ? today , on International Nurses Day , the Government have announce that they will adopt my Bill , and will indeed protect the title of nurse , which have make I extremely happy . as I will not have another opportunity to do so , I thank Francis Fernando , Professor Alison Leary from the # ProtectNurse campaign , Paul Trevatt , former Minister Ann Keen , Anna Lynch , the Royal College of Nursing and Unison . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . the Public Bill Office will be able to advise she on how to withdraw her Bill . it be not a matter for the Chair , but she have put on record her reason for withdraw the Bill . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 10 February 2025 , the Minister for Border Security and Asylum inadvertently mislead the House . she state : " the late figure show that 18 , 987 people with no right to be here have be deport since we come into government . " — [ Official Report , 10 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 131 . ] the Home Office clearly define deportation as " a specific subset of return which be enforce either follow a criminal conviction or when it be judge that a person ' s removal from the UK be conducive to the public good . " the late figure available state that in the year end 2024 , there be just 4 , 428 enforce return since Labour come into government . the rest be , in fact , voluntary return , nearly 50 % of which be classify as other verify return in which the Government play no active role . will you please ask the Minister to correct the record in accordance with 1 . 6 . c . of the " Ministerial Code " during her next appearance at the Dispatch Box ? I thank the hon . gentleman for notice of that point of order . it be not a matter for the Chair , but those on the Government Front Bench will have hear his point . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . by the way , it would be useful to know from the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) how she pull that one off . last week , a number of hon . member write to the Foreign Secretary after publish research demonstrate , despite the Government ' s assurance that arm sale to Israel have end , that there have be a large - scale export of arm to Israel since those assurance be give . we ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs to come to the House and make a statement . a statement have not be make , and I do not believe that an indication have be give to Mr Speaker that a statement will be make . we have not even receive a response to the letter . I wonder whether we could , through your good office , impress upon the Government the fact that a response be require , and that it would well be give to the House . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for give notice of his point of order . I have have no indication that a Minister intend to come to the House to make a statement on the matter , but the Foreign Secretary will be in the House tomorrow for question to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , so hon . member will have a chance to raise the issue then . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in last Wednesday ' s Adjournment debate on Essex devolution , the hon . member for South Basildon and East Thurrock ( James McMurdock ) state that it be his understanding that " there have be conversation between local council about Thurrock join London . " — [ Official Report , 7 May 2025 ; Vol . 766 , c . 813 . ] I believe he be aware that Thurrock council have make it abundantly clear , in response to a freedom of information request , that no such discussion have take place . these rumour have cause considerable concern locally . as a lifelong Thurrock resident who agree that our borough be Essex through and through , I would be grateful for your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how the hon . member for South Basildon and East Thurrock can correct the record . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . do she notify the hon . member for South Basildon and East Thurrock ( James McMurdock ) that she intend to raise the matter in the House ? I do . the Chair be not responsible for the substance of hon . member ’ speech , but the hon . Lady have put her point on the record . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will correct the record very briefly now . as the hon . member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) be aware , I have receive multiple verbal notice that discussion be be have between Thurrock and other council in the area , so I put in a freedom of information request , which conclude that there have be discussion . it turn out that it be only due to an administrative error that they say there have not be . I have receive verbal information and write confirmation that there have be , which be why I give the speech I do . I would point out that in the speech I give , I even refer to the fact that the conversation have be deny ; again , I also explain that to the hon . member for Thurrock . I believe I have do all I can on that , but give the number of strained relationship in this place , I certainly hope that this do not strain ours , and that we can continue to work constructively together . I thank the hon . member for his point of order . he have put his point on the record . I remind hon . member that point of order should be brief . Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill ( Ways and Means ) resolve , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , it be expedient to authorise the charging of fee by the Immigration Services Commissioner . — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill Consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 5 - extension of prohibition on employment to other work arrangement " ( 1 ) the Immigration , Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in the italic head before section 15 , after " Employment " insert " and other work arrangement " . ( 3 ) before section 15 , after the italic head insert — " 14a application of section 15 to 24 to other work arrangement ( 1 ) in section 15 to 24 , a reference to a person employ another person include a reference to — ( a ) a person ( " person a " ) engage an individual ( " individual a " ) under a worker ' s contract , ( b ) a person ( " person b " ) engage an individual sub - contractor ( " individual b " ) , and ( c ) an online matching service ( " person c " ) provide the detail of an individual who be a service provider ( " individual c " ) to potential client or customer . ( 2 ) accordingly — ( a ) reference in section 15 to 24 to employment include engagement of the kind mention in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) of subsection ( 1 ) or the provision of detail as mention in paragraph ( c ) of that subsection ; ( b ) reference in those section to an employer include person a , person b or person c ; ( c ) reference in those section to an employee include individual a , individual b or individual c . ( 3 ) in this section — " worker ' s contract " mean a contract , other than a contract of service or apprenticeship , under which — ( a ) individual a undertake to do or perform personally work or service for person a or another person ( whether or not that other person be specify in the contract ) , and ( b ) person a be neither a client nor customer of any profession or business undertaking carry on by individual a ; " individual sub - contractor " mean an individual ( " individual b " ) who have enter into a contract with person b to provide work or service in circumstance where person b have enter into a contract with a third party to provide , or arrange for the provision of , the work or service but individual b have not ; " online matching service " mean a person who , in the course of a business — ( a ) keep a register of service provider for the purpose of match they with potential client or customer , ( b ) provide an online service by which potential client or customer can submit enquiry for the purpose of be match with suitable service provider , and ( c ) charge a fee or commission in return for make such match ; " service provider " mean a person provide , or seek to provide , work or service for remuneration . ( 4 ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , and subsection ( 2 ) so far as it have effect in consequence of subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , do not apply if and to the extent that — ( a ) under the worker ' s contract , individual a undertake to do or perform personally work or service for a person other than person a ( whether or not that other person be specify in the contract ) , and ( b ) the status of a person for whom individual a do or perform work or service under the contract be that of a client or customer of a profession or business undertaking carry on by individual a . ( 5 ) in this section a reference to a contract include a contract that be express or imply and ( if it be express ) whether oral or in writing . ( 6 ) this section be subject to subsection ( 2 ) of section 15a ( which provide for subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) of that section not to apply to in relation to an online matching service ) . " ( 4 ) after section 15 insert — " 15a extension of liability under section 15 ( 1 ) subsection ( 4 ) apply where a person ( " a " ) — ( a ) employ an individual to provide work or service , or ( b ) be contract to provide , or arrange for the provision of , work or service and enter into a contract under which another person be to provide , or arrange for the provision of , the work or service ( or part of the work or service ) . ( 2 ) the reference in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) to a employ an individual do not include a do so as mention in section 14a ( 1 ) ( c ) ( online matching service ) . ( 3 ) subsection ( 4 ) also apply where — ( a ) a person ( " A " ) be an online matching service who provide the detail of another person who be a service provider to potential client or customer , and ( b ) as result of be match by person A , the service provider enter into a contract with a client or customer for the provision of work or service . ( 4 ) for the purpose of section 15 , and where this would not otherwise be the case , a be to be treat as employ any individual ( " B " ) who personally provide the work or service ( or any part of the work or service ) , include where — ( a ) a be not in a contractual relationship with B , or ( b ) a do not know that B be provide the work or service ( or part of the work or service ) . ( 5 ) subsection ( 4 ) apply where a be contract to provide , or arrange for the provision of , the work or service regardless of whether that contract be the first or any other contract in a chain of contract to provide , or arrange for the provision of , the work or service ( or part of the work or service ) . ( 6 ) this section do not affect the liability of any other employer under section 15 . ( 7 ) in section 15 , 16 , 17 , 23 and 24 a reference to a person employ another person include a reference to a person who be treat as do so by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) ; and reference in those section to employment , employer and employee be to be construe accordingly . ( 8 ) in this section " online matching service " and " service provider " have the same meaning as in section 14a . " ( 5 ) in section 25 — ( a ) in paragraph ( b ) , at the begin insert " subject to section 14a and 15a , " , ( b ) in paragraph ( b ) , leave out from " whether " to the end of the paragraph , and ( c ) after that paragraph insert — " ( ba ) a reference to a contract include a contract that be express or imply and ( if it be express ) whether oral or in writing , " . " — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this new clause amend the Immigration , Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 to extend the obligation currently place on employer to other arrangement . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 6 — timeframe for determination of appeal bring by appellant receiving accommodation support . government new clause 7 — timeframe for determination of certain appeal bring by non - detain appellant liable to deportation . government new clause 8 — Refugee Convention : particularly serious crime . new clause 1 — duty to report and publish datum on death in the asylum system and small boat crossing — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , on a quarterly basis , publish and lie before Parliament a report that include the number of death that have occur in relation to the UK asylum system in the three month precede the date specify in that report . ( 2 ) the specify date under subsection ( 1 ) must be no more than six month prior to the date of publication . ( 3 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must include ― ( a ) the total number of death occur , during the specify period , of person who be , at the time of death ― ( i ) in receipt of accommodation under section 4 , 95 or 98 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 ; or ( ii ) await the outcome of a claim for asylum while reside in other form of accommodation or at no fixed abode ; or ( iii ) undertake an unauthorised crossing of the English Channel ; ( b ) the cause of death for each person report , if know ; and ( c ) the location in which each death occur , if know . ( 4 ) the first report under this section must be make publish no later than one year after the passing of this Act . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section ― ( a ) a " claim for asylum " be define in accordance with section 167 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 ; and ( b ) an " unauthorised crossing " be a sea crossing make by an individual without leave to enter the United Kingdom , make from dry land in France , Belgium or the Netherlands for the purpose of reach dry land in the United Kingdom . " this new clause would require the Home Office to publish quarterly statistic and information on death in the asylum system and in small boat channel crossing . new clause 2 — report on restriction on asylum seeker engage in employment — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish a report explain what progress have be make towards provide asylum applicant with the right to take up employment whilst their application be be determine . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must be publish — ( a ) by 31 December 2025 , or ( b ) within three month of the passing of this Act , whichever be early ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must make a further report under subsection ( 1 ) at least every twelve calendar month after the publication of the first report , until the restriction on asylum seeker engage in employment be remove . ( 4 ) any report under subsection ( 1 ) must include a review of — ( a ) the current 12 month waiting period attach to the permission to work , and ( b ) the restriction of role to the Immigration Salary List . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must make arrangement for — ( a ) a copy of any report publish under subsection ( 1 ) to be lay before both Houses of Parliament before the end of the day on which it be publish , or the next sit day if it be publish on a non - sit day ; ( b ) the House of Commons to debate a motion , make by a Minister of the Crown , to the effect that the House of Commons have consider the report ; and ( c ) the House of Lords to debate a motion , make by a Minister of the Crown , to the effect that the House of Lords have consider the report . ( 6 ) the debate require under subsection ( 5 ) ( b ) and ( c ) must take place within 25 sit day of the day on which the report be lay before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to report back to Parliament annually on the Government ' s work right policy for people in the asylum system , and for both Houses of Parliament to debate a motion on the report . new clause 3 — duty to publish a strategy on safe and manage route — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish a strategy on the Government ' s effort to establish additional safe and legal route for person to seek asylum in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must be lay before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish and lie before Parliament a strategy on the development of safe and manage route for people to seek asylum in the UK . new clause 4 — repeal of certain provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 — " the follow provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 be repeal — ( a ) section 58 to 65 , and ( b ) section 68 and 69 . " this new clause would repeal specify provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , relate to modern slavery victim . new clause 9 — Humanitarian Assistance — " a person ( " p " ) do not commit an offence under section 13 ( supply article for use in immigration crime ) , section 14 ( handle article for use in immigration crime ) , or section 16 ( collect information for use in immigration crime ) if p ' s action be for the purpose of provide humanitarian assistance . " this new clause would ensure that individual who provide humanitarian assistance would not be consider as have commit the new criminal offence create by clause 13 , 14 and 16 of this Bill . new clause 10 — function of the Commander in relation to sea crossing to United Kingdom — " ( 1 ) in exercise the Commander ' s function in relation to sea crossing to the United Kingdom , the Commander must have regard to the objective of — ( a ) prevent the boarding of vessel , with the aim of enter the United Kingdom , by person who require leave to enter the United Kingdom but be seek to enter the United Kingdom — ( i ) without leave to enter , or ( ii ) with leave to enter that be obtain by mean which include deception by any person ; ( b ) ensure that a decision be take on a claim by a person under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) within six month of the person ' s arrival in the United Kingdom ; and ( c ) make arrangement with a safe third country for the removal of a person who enter the United Kingdom without leave , or with leave that be obtain by deception . ( 2 ) the Commander must include , in the strategic priority document issue under section 3 ( 2 ) , an assessment of — ( a ) the most effective method for deter illegal entry into the United Kingdom ; ( b ) the most effective method for reduce the number of sea crossing make by individual without leave to enter the United Kingdom ; and ( c ) the most effective method for arrange the removal , to the person ' s own country or a safe third country , of a person who enter the United Kingdom illegally . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) " sea crossing " be journey from dry land in France , Belgium or the Netherlands for the purpose of reach dry land in the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) illegal entry to the United Kingdom be define in accordance with section 24 of the Immigration Act 1971 ( illegal entry and similar offence ) . " this new clause set out objective and strategic priority for the Border Security Commander in relation to sea crossing and arrangement with a safe third country for the removal of people who enter the UK illegally . new clause 11 — Qualification period for Indefinite Leave to remain in the United Kingdom — " ( 1 ) the minimum qualification period for application for indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom be a period of ten year . ( 2 ) the qualification period in subsection ( 1 ) apply to a person who have — ( a ) a tier 2 , T2 , International Sportsperson or Skilled Worker visa , ( b ) a Scale - up Worker visa , ( c ) a Global Talent , Tier 1 Entrepreneur or investor visa , ( d ) an Innovator Founder visa , ( e ) a UK Ancestry visa , or ( f ) a partner hold UK citizenship . ( 3 ) a person who have live in the United Kingdom for ten year or more but do not meet the criterion in subsection ( 2 ) can not apply for indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom . " this new clause would extend the qualification period for apply for Indefinite Leave to remain in the UK to ten year and abolish the long - stay route , through which a person can apply for Indefinite Leave to remain base on have live in the UK for ten year or more . new clause 12 — age assessment : use of scientific method — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament — ( a ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under section 52 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 specify scientific method that may be use for the purpose of age assessment , and ( b ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under section 58 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 make provision about refusal to consent to scientific method for age assessment . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make regulation to specify scientific method for assess a person ' s age and to disapply the requirement for consent for scientific method to be use . new clause 13 — Revocation of indefinite leave to remain in certain circumstance — " ( 1 ) Indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom be revoke with respect to a person ( " p " ) if any of the following condition apply . ( 2 ) condition 1 be that p be define as a " foreign criminal " under section 32 of the UK Borders Act 2007 . ( 3 ) condition 2 be that p be grant indefinite leave to remain after the come into force of this Act , but would not be eligible for indefinite leave under the requirement of section [ Qualification period for Indefinite Leave to remain in the United Kingdom ] . ( 4 ) condition 3 be that p , or any dependent of p , have be in receipt of any form of " social protection " ( include housing ) from HM Government or a local authority , where " social protection " be define accord to the Treasury ' s Public Expenditure Statistical Analyses , subject to any further definition by immigration rule . ( 5 ) condition 4 be that p ' s annual income have fall below £ 38 , 700 for six month or more in aggregate during the relevant qualification period , or subsequent to receive indefinite leave to remain . ( 6 ) a person who have enter the United Kingdom — ( a ) under the Ukraine visa scheme ; ( b ) under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ; ( c ) under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy ; or ( d ) on a British National Overseas visa , be exempt from the requirement of Condition 2 , Condition 3 , and condition 4 . ( 7 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) the condition apply only to earning that have be lawfully report to , or subject to withholding tax by , HM Revenue and Customs ; and ( b ) the relevant sum of annual income must be adjust annually by the Secretary of State through immigration rule to reflect inflation . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may by immigration rule vary the condition set out in this section . " this new clause would revoke indefinite leave where a person be a foreign criminal , have be in receipt of benefit , earn below the national median income , or ( for those grant indefinite leave after the come into force of this Act ) would not meet the requirement seek to be impose by NC11 . new clause 14 — border legislation : Human Rights Act — " ( 1 ) this section apply to any provision make by or by virtue of this Act , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , the Immigration Acts , and any legislation relate to immigration , deportation , or asylum , include the Immigration Rules within the meaning of the Immigration Act 1971 . ( 2 ) the legislation identify in subsection ( 1 ) , include in relation to the enforcement of immigration policy , deportation , the granting , removal , revocation or alteration of immigration status , or asylum , or other entitlement , must be read and give effect to disregard the Human Rights Act 1998 . ( 3 ) in the Asylum and Immigration Appeals Act 1993 , omit section 2 . ( 4 ) in the Immigration Act 1971 — ( a ) in section 8aa — ( i ) in subsection ( 2 ) , omit " subject to subsection ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) " ; and ( ii ) omit subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) ( ii ) and subsection ( 3 ) to ( 6 ) ; ( b ) in section 8b , omit subsection ( 5A ) . ( 5 ) in section 84 of the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after " must " insert " not " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after " must " insert " not " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for " section 6 " substitute " any section " ; and ( d ) in subsection ( 3 ) after " must " insert " not " . ( 6 ) where the European Court of Human Rights indicate an interim measure relate to the exercise of any function under the legislation identify in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) it be only for a Minister of the Crown to decide whether the United Kingdom will comply with the interim measure under this section ; and ( b ) an immigration officer or court or tribunal must not have regard to the interim measure . " this new clause would disapply the Human Rights Act and interim measure of the European Court of Human Rights in relation to this Bill and to other legislation about border , asylum and immigration . new clause 15 — offence and deportation — " ( 1 ) the UK Borders Act 2007 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 32 — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , at the end insert " and " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) leave out " and " and insert " or " ; and ( c ) leave out subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) and substitute — " ( c ) who have be charge with or convict of an offence under section 24 of the Immigration Act 1971 " ( d ) leave out subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . ( 3 ) in section 33 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 6a ) . ( 4 ) the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 5 ) leave out subsection ( 5 ) of section 1 and insert — " ( 5 ) the Human Rights Act do not apply to provision make by or by virtue of this Act or to — ( a ) the Immigration Act 1971 , ( b ) the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 , ( c ) the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 , ( d ) the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , or ( e ) the Immigration Act 2016 . " ( 6 ) in section 6 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) . ( 7 ) in section 24 of the Immigration Act 1971 , leave out all instance of " knowingly " . " this new clause would prevent a foreign national who be convict of any offence from remain in the UK , as well as anyone who have be charge with or convict with an immigration offence under section 24 of the Immigration Act 1971 . new clause 16 — restriction on visa for spouse and civil partner — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make regulation specify the maximum number of person who may enter the United Kingdom annually as a spouse or civil partner of another ( the sponsor ) . ( 2 ) before make regulation under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) in England and Wales and Scotland , such representative of local authority as the Secretary of State consider appropriate ; ( b ) the Executive Office in Northern Ireland ; and ( c ) any such other person or body as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 3 ) but the duty to consult under subsection ( 2 ) do not apply where the Secretary of State consider that the maximum number under subsection ( 1 ) need to be change as a matter of urgency . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must commence the consultation under subsection ( 2 ) in relation to the first regulation to be make under this section before the end of the period of three month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 5 ) the regulation must specify that the number of person from any one country who enter as a spouse or civil partner of a sponsor can not exceed 7 % of the maximum number specify in the regulation under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 6 ) if , in any year , the number of person who enter the United Kingdom as a spouse or civil partner of a sponsor exceed the number specify in regulation under this section , the Secretary of State must lay a statement before Parliament — ( a ) set out the number of person who have , in that year , enter the United Kingdom as a spouse or civil partner of a sponsor ; and ( b ) explain why the number exceed that specify in the regulation . ( 7 ) the statement under subsection ( 6 ) must be lay before Parliament before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the last day of the year to which the statement relate . ( 8 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must by immigration rule make the change set out in subsection ( 9 ) to ( 11 ) . ( 9 ) the requirement to be meet by a person seek leave to enter the United Kingdom with a view to settlement as the spouse or civil partner of a person present and settle in the United Kingdom or who be on the same occasion be admit for settlement include that — ( a ) the applicant be married to , or the civil partner of , a person who have a right of abode in the United Kingdom or indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom and be , on the same occasion , seek admission to the United Kingdom for the purpose of settlement ; ( b ) the applicant provide evidence that the party under subsection ( 9 ) ( a ) be marry or form a civil partnership at least two year prior to the application ; ( c ) each of the party intend to live permanently with the other as spouse or civil partner and the marriage or civil partnership be subsist ; ( d ) the salary of the person who have a right to abode in the United Kingdom or indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom equal or exceed £ 38 , 700 per year ; and ( e ) the applicant and the person who have a right of abode in the United Kingdom be both at least 23 year old . ( 10 ) leave to enter the United Kingdom as a spouse or civil partner under subsection ( 9 ) be to be refuse if the party concern be first cousin . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this section , " local authority " mean — ( a ) in England and Wales , a county council , a county borough council , a district council , a London borough council , the Common Council of the City of London or the Council of the Isles of Scilly , and ( b ) in Scotland , a council constitute under section 2 of the Local Government etc ( Scotland ) Act 1994 . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to specify a cap on the number of spouse or civil partner who may enter the UK , and on the number that may enter from any one country . it would also amend the immigration rule to set a salary threshold . new clause 17 — restriction on visa and grant of indefinite leave to remain — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must by immigration rule provide for all visa grant , include spousal visa , to be conditional on the following — ( a ) the requirement that the applicant or their dependent will not apply for any form of " social protection " ( include housing ) from the UK Government or a local authority , where " social protection " be define accord to the Treasury ' s Public Expenditure Statistical Analyses , subject to any further definition by immigration rule ; and ( b ) the requirement that the applicant ' s annual income must not fall below £ 38 , 700 for six month or more in aggregate during the relevant qualification period . ( 2 ) Immigration Rules make under subsection ( 1 ) must ensure that any breach of the condition set out in that subsection will render void any visa previously grant . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State be not permit to grant leave outside the immigration rule or immigration act . ( 4 ) a person be not eligible to apply for indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom if any of the following condition apply . ( 5 ) condition 1 be that a person be a " foreign criminal " under section 32 of the UK Borders Act 2007 . ( 6 ) condition 2 be that a person , or any of their dependent , have be in receipt of any form of " social protection " ( include housing ) from the UK Government or a local authority , where " social protection " be define accord to the Treasury ' s Public Expenditure Statistical Analyses , subject to any further definition by immigration rule . ( 7 ) condition 3 be that a person ' s annual income have fall below £ 38 , 700 for six month or more in aggregate during the relevant qualification period . ( 8 ) a person who have enter the United Kingdom — ( a ) under the Ukraine visa scheme ; ( b ) under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ; ( c ) under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy ; or ( d ) on a British National Overseas visa , be exempt from the requirement of Condition 2 and Condition 3 . ( 9 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) and ( 7 ) — ( a ) the condition apply only to earning that have be lawfully report to , or subject to withholding tax by , HM Revenue and Customs ; and ( b ) the relevant sum of annual income must be adjust annually by the Secretary of State through immigration rule to reflect inflation . ( 10 ) the Secretary of State may by immigration rule make further provision vary these condition , include by way of transitional provision . " this new clause would place certain restriction on the granting of visa or indefinite leave to remain . it would require migrant to be self - sufficient and not to require state benefit , and would deny indefinite leave to remain to foreign criminal . new clause 18 — Cap on the number of entrant — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must make regulation specify the total maximum number of person who may enter the United Kingdom annually across all non - visitor visa route , with such regulation subject to approval by both Houses . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation also specify a maximum number of entrant for individual visa route , subject to the overall total . ( 3 ) no visa may be issue in excess of the total maximum number specify in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 4 ) any visa issue in excess of the number specify in subsection ( 1 ) must be revoke . " this new clause would provide a mechanism for a bind annual cap on the number of non - visitor visa issue by the UK . new clause 19 — removal from the United Kingdom : visa penalty for uncooperative country — " ( 1 ) the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 70 , omit subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) . ( 3 ) in section 72 — ( a ) subsection ( 1 ) , after " a country " , for " may " substitute " must " . ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) omit " and " and insert " or , ( ab ) be not cooperate in relation to the verification of identity or status of individual who be likely to be national or citizen of the country , and " ( c ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , after " citizen of the country " insert " or individual who be likely to be national or citizen of the country " , ( d ) omit subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , and ( e ) in subsection ( 4 ) , omit from " 70 " to after " subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) " . ( 4 ) omit section 74 . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to use a visa penalty provision if a country be not cooperate in the removal of any of its national or citizen from the UK , or in relation to the verification of their identity or status . new clause 20 — exemption from the UK GDPR : illegal migration and foreign criminal — " ( 1 ) the Data Protection Act 2018 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) of section 15 ( exemption etc ) , at end insert " , and make provision about the exemption from all GDPR provision of person who enter the United Kingdom illegally and foreign criminal ; ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) of Schedule 2 , after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) gdpr provision do not apply if the datum subject enter the United Kingdom illegally or be a foreign criminal . ( 1b ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1A ) — ( a ) a person " enter the United Kingdom illegally " if they enter the United Kingdom — ( i ) without leave to enter , or ( ii ) with leave to enter that be obtain by mean which include deception by any person ; and ( b ) " foreign criminal " be define in accordance with section 32 of the UK Borders Act 2007 . " " this new clause would disapply datum protection law from datum on people who have enter the UK illegally or be Foreign National Offenders . new clause 21 — removal of restriction on asylum seeker engage in employment — " the Secretary of State must , within three month of the date on which this Act be pass , lie before Parliament a statement of change in the rule ( the " immigration rule " ) under section 3 ( 2 ) of the Immigration Act 1971 ( general provision for regulation and control ) to make provision for asylum applicant to take up employment whilst their application be be determine , if it have be over three month since the application be make , with no decision make . " this new clause would remove the restriction on work for asylum seeker , if it have be over three month since they apply . new clause 22 — additional safe and legal route — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passage of this Act , make regulation specify safe and legal route through which refugee and other individual require international protection can enter the UK lawfully . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make regulation specify additional safe and legal route , under which refugee and other in need of international protection can come to the UK lawfully from abroad . new clause 23 — duty to meet the director of Europol — " the Border Commander must meet the director of Europol , or their delegate , no less than once every three month . " this new clause would require the Border Commander to meet with the Executive Director of Europol every three month . new clause 24 — duty to establish a joint taskforce with Europol — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must seek to establish a joint taskforce with Europol for the purpose of cooperation on the matter set out under subsection ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passage of this Act , make a report to Parliament on progress make to date on establish a joint taskforce under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) any joint taskforce establish pursuant to the Secretary of State ' s activity under subsection ( 1 ) have a duty to promote cooperation on — ( a ) the disruption of traffic operation ; ( b ) the enhancement of law enforcement capability ; ( c ) the provision of specialised training for official involve in border security and immigration enforcement ; and ( d ) any other matter which the Secretary of State or Director of Europol deem appropriate . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to seek a joint taskforce with Europol for the purpose of disrupt traffic operation , enhance law enforcement capability , and provide specialised training to official involve in border security and immigration enforcement . new clause 25 — participation in Europol ' s anti - traffic operation — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must provide adequate resource to law enforcement agency for the purpose of enhance their participation in Europol ' s anti - traffic operation . ( 2 ) the resource provide under subsection ( 1 ) must include technology for conduct improve surveillance on , and detection of , smuggle network . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , " law enforcement agency " include — ( a ) the National Crime Agency ( b ) police force in England and Wales ; and ( c ) the British Transport Police . " this new clause would require the Government to allocate adequate resource to law enforcement agency to enhance their participation in Europol ' s anti - traffic operation , include through technological tool for well surveillance and detection of smuggling network . new clause 26 — requirement to produce an annual report on cooperation with Europol — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within one year of the passage of this Act , lie before Parliament an annual report on cooperation between UK law enforcement agency and Europol . ( 2 ) a further report must be publish and lay before Parliament at least once per year . ( 3 ) an annual report under this section must include — ( a ) action take during the previous year to cooperate with Europol ; ( b ) progress in reduce people smuggling and human trafficking ; and ( c ) plan activity for improve future cooperation with Europol . " this new clause would require the Government to provide an annual report to Parliament detail the UK ' s effort to cooperate with Europol , its progress in reduce level of people smuggle and human trafficking , and its plan to improve future cooperation . new clause 27 — reunite unaccompanied child refugee with family member — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must by immigration rule make the change set out in subsection ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 2 ) the requirement to be meet by a person seek leave to enter the United Kingdom as a child relative of a person or person give limited leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom , as a refugee or beneficiary of humanitarian protection , be that the applicant — ( a ) be the child , grandchild , sister , brother , nephew or niece of a person or person grant limited leave to enter or remain as a refugee or beneficiary of humanitarian protection grant as such under the immigration rule ; and ( b ) be under the age of 18 ; and ( c ) can , and will , be accommodate adequately by the person or person the child be seek to join without recourse to public fund in accommodation which the person or person the child be seek to join , own or occupy exclusively ; and ( d ) can , and will , be maintain adequately by the person or person the child be seek to join , without recourse to public fund ; and ( e ) if seek leave to enter , hold a valid United Kingdom entry clearance for entry in this capacity . ( 3 ) the requirement to be meet by a person seek leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom as the close relative of a child with limited leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom as a refugee or beneficiary of humanitarian protection be that the applicant be — ( a ) a parent , grandparent , sister , brother , aunt or uncle of a child with limited leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom as a refugee or beneficiary of humanitarian protection ; and ( b ) join a refugee or beneficiary of humanitarian protection with limited leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom who be under the age of 18 and not live with a parent or grandparent ; and ( c ) can , and will , be accommodate adequately , together with any dependant , without recourse to public fund . ( 4 ) limited leave to enter the United Kingdom as an applicant under subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) may be grant for five year provide that , on arrival , a valid passport or other identity document be produce to the Immigration Officer and the applicant have entry clearance for entry in this capacity . limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom as an applicant under subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) may be grant provide the Secretary of State be satisfied that each of the requirement of subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) be meet . ( 5 ) limited leave to enter the United Kingdom as an applicant under subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) be to be refuse if , on arrival , a valid passport or other identity document be not produce to the Immigration Officer and the applicant do not have entry clearance for entry in this capacity . limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom as an applicant under subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) be to be refuse if the Secretary of State be not satisfied that each of the requirement of subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) be meet . ( 6 ) civil legal service be to be provide to an applicant under subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) in relation to right to enter , and to remain in , the United Kingdom pursuant to schedule 1 , subsection 30 ( 1 ) of the legal aid , sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 . " this new clause would require change to the immigration rule to extend the family member that could apply to join an unaccompanied child refugee in the UK , to include parent , grandparent , sister , brother , uncle and aunt , and to allow unaccompanied child refugee to sponsor close adult family member to join they in the UK . it also provide for legal aid to be available in such case . new clause 28 — good character requirement : illegal entry — " the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passing of this Act , ensure that illegal entry to the UK be disregard as a factor for the purpose of assess whether a person apply for british citizenship meet the good character requirement . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to change current Home Office guidance state that individual who enter the UK illegally , regardless of how long ago , will " normally be refuse " citizenship ( if they apply after 10 February 2025 ) . new clause 29 — report on impact of carer ' minimum wage on net migration — " the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passage of this Act , lie before Parliament a report on the impact of introduce a minimum wage for carer on level of net migration . " this new clause would require the Government to publish a report on how implement a carer ' minimum wage would impact on level of net migration . new clause 30 — a three - month service standard for asylum casework — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passage of this Act , implement a three month service standard for asylum casework . ( 2 ) the service standard must specify that 98 % of initial decision on all asylum claim should be make before the end of three month after the date of claim . " this new clause would require UK Visas and Immigration to reintroduce a three month service standard for decision on asylum case . new clause 31 — exemption of NHS worker from immigration skill charge — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , implement an exemption for National Health Service worker from the immigration skill charge for sponsor a Skilled Worker or a senior or specialist worker . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to apply an exception to the NHS as an employer from have to pay the immigration skill charge when sponsor skilled employee . new clause 32 — repeal of certain provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 ( no . 2 ) — " ( 1 ) the follow provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 be repeal — ( a ) section 12 to 65 ; and ( b ) section 68 and 69 . " this new clause would repeal specify provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 . new clause 33 — Council of Europe Convention on Action against traffic in Human Beings — " the Secretary of State must — ( a ) within six month of the passing of this Act , introduce legislation to ensure the United Kingdom ' s full compliance with the 2009 Council of Europe Convention on Action against traffic in Human Beings ; and ( b ) within 18 month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report on how the Government be ensure full compliance with the Convention under this section . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to introduce legislation which incorporate the Council of Europe Convention on Action against traffic in Human Beings into UK law and report on compliance with the Convention . new clause 34 — victim of slavery or human trafficking : protection from immigration offence — " ( 1 ) the Modern Slavery Act 2015 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 52 ( duty to notify Secretary of State about suspect victim of slavery or human trafficking ) , after subsection ( 2 ) , insert — " ( 2A ) the Secretary of State must make such arrangement as the Secretary of State consider reasonable to ensure that notification under this section do not include the supply of information to relevant person or authority that might indicate that — ( a ) the victim have commit an offence under section 24 to 26 of the Immigration Act 1971 , or ( b ) the victim might otherwise meet the requirement for removal from the United Kingdom or for investigation pende removal . ( 2b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2A ) , " relevant person or authority " include — ( a ) a Minister of the Crown or a government department ; ( b ) an immigration officer ; ( c ) a custom official ; ( d ) a law enforcement officer ; ( e ) the Director of Border Revenue ; ( f ) the Border Security Commander ; ( g ) a UK authorise person ; and ( h ) the government of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom . " " this new clause would prevent a public authority , when determine whether a person be a victim of slavery or human trafficking , from share information with immigration authority and other public authority that might result in deportation or prosecution for an immigration offence . new clause 35 — humanitarian travel permit — " ( 1 ) on an application by a person ( " p " ) to the appropriate decision - maker for entry clearance , the appropriate decision - maker must grant p entry clearance if satisfied that p be a relevant person . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , p be a relevant person if — ( a ) p intend to make a protection claim in the United Kingdom ; ( b ) p ' s protection claim , if make in the United Kingdom , would have a realistic prospect of success ; and ( c ) there be serious and compelling reason why p ' s protection claim should be consider in the United Kingdom . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) , in decide whether there be such reason why p ' s protection claim should be consider in the United Kingdom , the appropriate decision - maker must take into account — ( a ) the extent of the risk that p will suffer persecution or serious harm if entry clearance be not grant ; ( b ) the strength of p ' s family and other tie to the United Kingdom ; ( c ) p ' s mental and physical health and any particular vulnerability that p have ; and ( d ) any other matter that the decision - maker think relevant . ( 4 ) for the purpose of an application under subsection ( 1 ) , the appropriate decision - maker must waive any of the requirement in subsection ( 5 ) if satisfy that p can not reasonably be expect to comply with they . ( 5 ) the requirement be — ( a ) any requirement prescribed ( whether by immigration rule or otherwise ) under section 50 of the Immigration , Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 ; and ( b ) any requirement prescribe by regulation make under section 5 , 6 , 7 or 8 of the UK Borders Act 2007 ( biometric registration ) . ( 6 ) no fee may be charge for the making of an application under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 7 ) an entry clearance grant pursuant to subsection ( 1 ) have effect as leave to enter for such period , be not less than six month , and on such condition as the Secretary of State may prescribe by order . ( 8 ) upon a person enter the United Kingdom ( within the meaning of section 11 of the Immigration Act 1971 ) pursuant to leave to enter give under subsection ( 7 ) , that person be deem to have make a protection claim in the United Kingdom . ( 9 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) " appropriate decision - maker " mean a person authorise by the Secretary of State by rule make under section 3 of the Immigration Act 1971 to grant an entry clearance under paragraph ( 1 ) ; ( b ) " entry clearance " have the same meaning as in section 33 ( 1 ) of the Immigration Act 1971 ; ( c ) " protection claim " , in relation to a person , mean a claim that to remove they from or require they to leave the United Kingdom would be inconsistent with the United Kingdom ' s obligation — ( i ) under the Convention relate to the Status of Refugees do at Geneva on 28th July 1951 and the Protocol to that Convention ( " the Refugee Convention " ) ; ( ii ) in relation to person entitle to a grant of humanitarian protection ; or ( iii ) under Article 2 or 3 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms agree by the Council of Europe at Rome on 4th November 1950 ( " the European Convention on Human Rights " ) ; ( d ) " persecution " be define in accordance with the Refugee Convention ; and ( e ) " serious harm " mean treatment that , if it occur within the jurisdiction of the United Kingdom , would be contrary to the United Kingdom ' s obligation under article 2 or 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights ( irrespective of where it will actually occur ) . " this new clause would create a new " humanitarian travel permit " . new clause 36 — Refugee family reunion — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 6 month of the date on which this Act be pass , lie before Parliament a statement of change in the rule ( the " immigration rule " ) under section 3 ( 2 ) of the Immigration Act 1971 ( general provision for regulation and control ) to make provision for refugee family reunion , in accordance with this section , to come into effect after 21 day . ( 2 ) before a statement of change be lay under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult with person as the Secretary of State deem appropriate . ( 3 ) the statement lay under subsection ( 1 ) must set out rule provide for leave to enter and remain in the United Kingdom for family member of a person grant refugee status or humanitarian protection . ( 4 ) in this section , " refugee status " and " humanitarian protection " have the same meaning as in the immigration rule . ( 5 ) in this section , " family member " include — ( a ) a person ' s parent , include adoptive parent ; ( b ) a person ' s spouse , civil partner or unmarried partner ; ( c ) a person ' s child , include adopt child , who be either — ( i ) under the age of 18 , or ( ii ) under the age of 25 but be either under the age of 18 or unmarried at the time the person grant asylum leave their country of residence to seek asylum ; ( d ) a person ' s sibling , include adoptive sibling , who be either — ( i ) under the age of 18 , or ( ii ) under the age of 25 , but be either under the age of 18 or unmarried at the time the person grant asylum leave their country of residence to seek asylum ; and ( e ) such other person as the Secretary of State may determine , have regard to — ( i ) the importance of maintain family unity , ( ii ) the good interest of a child , ( iii ) the physical , emotional , psychological or financial dependency between a person grant refugee status or humanitarian protection and another person , ( iv ) any risk to the physical , emotional or psychological well being of a person who be grant refugee status or humanitarian protection , include from the circumstance in which the person be live in the United Kingdom , or ( v ) such other matter as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 6 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) " adopt " and " adoptive " refer to a relationship result from adoption , include de facto adoption , as set out in the immigration rule , and ( b ) " good interest " of a child must be read in accordance with article 3 of the 1989 UN Convention on the Rights of the child . " this new clause would make provision for leave to enter or remain in the UK to be grant to the family member of refugee and of people grant humanitarian protection . new clause 37 — child bear in the UK : british citizenship — " ( 1 ) the British Nationality Act 1981 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 1 ( 3A ) insert — " ( 3b ) a person ( " p " ) bear in the United Kingdom on or after the relevant day who be not a british citizen by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) , ( 1A ) or ( 2 ) or section 10a shall be entitle to be register as a british citizen if , when p be bear , p ' s father or mother — ( a ) have previously enter the UK whilst hold leave to enter the UK ; and ( b ) be subsequently , and at the time of p ' s birth , subject to UK immigration control . " ( 3 ) the Immigration and Nationality ( Fees ) Regulations 2018 be amend as follow . ( 4 ) in Schedule 1 , table 20A , insert — " no fee be payable in respect of an application for registration as a british citizen under the 1981 Act where the application be make under section 1 ( 3b ) of that Act . " " this new clause would ensure citizenship for child bear in the UK whose parent have leave to enter the UK but be not british citizen or have settle status at the time of their child ' s birth , and for fee for that registration to be waive . new clause 38 — repeal of certain provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 ( no . 3 ) — " ( 1 ) the follow provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 be repeal — ( a ) section 12 , ( b ) section 16 , ( c ) section 30 to 38 , and ( d ) section 40 . " this new clause would repeal provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 concern : the creation of two separate group of refugee , subject to differential treatment ; the inadmissibility of asylum claim by person with a connection to a safe third state ; the interpretation of the Refugee Convention ; and the creation of offence relate and similar to illegal entry to the UK . new clause 39 — duty to deport in accordance with the Refugee Convention — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must seek to remove anyone who , base on Article 1f and Article 33 ( 2 ) of the Refugee Convention , do not have the benefit of the non - refoulement provision of the Refugee Convention . ( 2 ) this duty do not apply in relation to person who would face a real risk of capital punishment or extra - judicial killing or whose removal would contravene the United Kingdom ' s obligation under Article 3 of the United Nations Convention against Torture . ( 3 ) if a domestic court or tribunal have rule that a person ' s removal would not contravene subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , the court or tribunal may — ( a ) consider whether removal would be contrary to the Human Rights Act 1998 , ( b ) but if it consider that removal would be contrary to the Human Rights Act 1998 , the Secretary of State may seek the removal of that person , notwithstanding the Act . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may delay the removal of an individual where subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) apply , until the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights have rule on the compatibility of that removal . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must argue before the European Court of Human Rights that the European Convention on Human Rights can not be interpret as prevent the removal of an individual if such removal be compatible with the Refugee Convention and the United Nations Convention against Torture . ( 6 ) if the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights rule that the European Convention on Human Rights take precedence over the Refugee Convention and United Nations Convention against Torture , the Secretary of State may decide to comply with that Grand Chamber decision . ( 7 ) if the Secretary of State decide to comply with a ruling of the Grand Chamber , they must publish a quarterly report set out the anonymised detail of those individual who could be deport subject to subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) but have not be deport because of a decision by the Secretary of State to comply with a decision of the Grand Chamber of the European Court on Human Rights . " new clause 40 — detention of illegal migrant — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , set out plan to detain illegal migrant in secure accommodation . ( 2 ) detention under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) must occur immediately upon a person ' s arrival into the UK without leave to enter the UK ; ( b ) must be in accommodation with requisite security , not include hotel or residential accommodation ; and ( c ) must be for no more than 24 hour , during which any asylum claim must be assess and decide . ( 3 ) any person whose asylum claim under this section be refuse must be deport within 24 hour of refusal . ( 4 ) a plan under subsection ( 1 ) must be — ( a ) lay before Parliament , and ( b ) implement within twelve month of the passing of this Act . " this new clause would require the Government to set up secure accommodation to detain illegal migrant as soon as they arrive in the UK , assess any asylum claim with 24 hour of detention , and deport any fail applicant . new clause 41 — Impact of European Convention on Human Rights on border security — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish an assessment of the impact of the UK ' s commitment to the European Convention on Human Rights on the UK ' s border security . ( 2 ) an assessment under this section must be lay before Parliament and must include — ( a ) the number of additional person likely to be deport from the United Kingdom annually if the UK be to depart from the European Convention on Human Rights , and ( b ) of those , the number of foreign criminal likely to be deport annually . " this new clause would require the Government to assess the impact of the ECHR on the UK ' s border security . new clause 42 — transparency in age dispute decision - making — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , and on a quarterly basis thereafter — ( a ) prepare and publish a report on age assessment conduct for the purpose of immigration control , and ( b ) lie a copy of the report before Parliament . ( 2 ) the report must include — ( a ) the total number of age dispute raise during the reporting period , ( b ) the number of individual who be initially treat as adult but be subsequently assess to be under the age of 18 , ( c ) the number of individual who be initially treat as child but be subsequently assess to be 18 or over , ( d ) the number and percentage of individual refer for a formal Merton - compliant age assessment , ( e ) the number of safeguard referral make as a result of age misclassification , and ( f ) the number of legal challenge bring in relation to age assessment , and the outcome of those challenge . ( 3 ) the report must also include an assessment of the impact of age dispute procedure on unaccompanied child , with particular regard to — ( a ) the duration of time spend in adult accommodation , detention , or prison , ( b ) any effect on access to education , healthcare , and social care service , ( c ) any risk to mental and physical health arise from misclassification , and ( d ) any referral to or finding make by safeguard professional or regulatory body in relation to such case . ( 4 ) in this section — " child " mean a person who be under the age of 18 , " Merton - compliant " mean compliant with the principle establish in r ( b ) v Merton LBC [ 2003 ] EWHC 1689 ( Admin ) , " age dispute " mean any case in which the claim age of an individual for immigration purpose be challenge or reassess by the Home Office or a relevant authority . " this new clause would require the Home Office to publish a detailed analysis which include the outcome on age assessment . it aim to increase transparency in the current process and to support policy reform that well safeguard child at risk of be misclassifie as adult . its aim be to ensure a more transparent , and accountable approach to age dispute . new clause 43 — Management of immigration removal centre and asylum accommodation — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , make by regulation a register of prohibit provider of immigration removal centre and other form of asylum accommodation . ( 2 ) the register under subsection ( 1 ) must include all company or person — ( a ) find guilty of or fine for — ( i ) gross misconduct , ( ii ) abuse , ( iii ) overcharging , or ( iv ) fraud in relation to their operation of immigration removal centre and other form of asylum accommodation , or ( b ) who have not , follow inspection by the Independent Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration ( ICIBI ) , meet the recommendation of the subsequent report within 6 month . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State or department must not enter into further contract or renewal of contract with any prohibit provider . " this new clause would require the Home Office to make a register of prohibit provider of immigration removal centre and other form of asylum accommodation who have be convict of gross misconduct , abuse , overcharging or fraud , or have not meet the recommendation of an inspection report . the Home Office can not renew or enter into further contract with prohibit provider on the register . new clause 44 — National Referral Mechanism : duty to create a new visa scheme — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , by immigration rule , create a new visa scheme for person who — ( a ) be regard by a first responder organisation as eligible for referral into the National Referral Mechanism for modern slavery ; and ( b ) be in receipt of an Overseas Domestic Worker visa under the term of the Immigration Rules Appendix Overseas Domestic Worker ; or ( c ) have be in receipt of such a visa within the six month prior to a referral under paragraph ( a ) . ( 2 ) immigration rule under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) must be lay before Parliament within six month of the passing of this Act ; and ( b ) must be commence within six month of be lay before Parliament . ( 3 ) immigration rule under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) enable an eligible person to remain in the UK until the later of — ( i ) the date on which a conclusive ground decision be make ; or ( ii ) the date on which any reconsideration or judicial review of a conclusive ground decision have conclude ; or ( iii ) for person recognise as a victim of modern slavery through a positive conclusive ground decision , the date on which the person be grant either Discretionary Leave under the Immigration Act 1971 or Temporary Permission to stay under section 65 of the Nationality and Borders and 2022 ; and ( b ) enable the eligible person to work as a domestic worker for any eligible employer during the period specify by this subsection . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — " first responder organisation " be to be define by immigration rule under this section ; " National Referral Mechanism " mean the national framework for identify and refer potential victim of modern slavery and ensure they receive appropriate support ; " conclusive ground decision " mean a decision by a competent authority as to whether a person be a victim of slavery or human trafficking . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to introduce a new visa scheme for victim of modern slavery who have be grant an Overseas Domestic Worker visa , to avoid visa concern act as a deterrent against referral for support under the National Referral Mechanism . new clause 45 — good character requirement — " ( 1 ) the British Nationality Act 1981 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 41a , ( registration : requirement to be of good character ) , after subsection ( 4 ) , insert — " ( 4A ) the good character requirement under this section must not be apply in a manner contrary to the United Kingdom ' s obligation under any international agreement to which the United Kingdom be a party . ( 4b ) the Secretary of State must ensure any guidance issue regard the good character requirement reflect the follow — ( a ) any assessment of good character may only take into account the illegal entry , arrival or presence of a person ( p ) in the United Kingdom if at the time of p ' s entry to or arrival in the UK — ( i ) p be age 18 year or over , ( ii ) p would have be give leave to enter under the immigration rule , if P have seek it , and ( iii ) the assessment of p ' s good character be make on the basis of guidance , which be publish . ( b ) it be for the Secretary of State to prove , on the balance of probability , that — ( i ) p would have be give leave to enter under the immigration rule , if P have seek it ; and ( ii ) it would have be reasonable to expect p to have seek and obtain such leave to enter . ( 4c ) in this section — " the good character requirement " refer to the provision regard a person be of good character in section 41a ( registration : requirement to be of good character ) , section 4L ( Acquisition by registration : special circumstance ) , and paragraph 1 and 5 of Schedule 1 to the British Nationality Act 1981 . " immigration rule " mean rule under section 3 ( 2 ) of the Immigration Act 1971 . ' this new clause would ensure the good character requirement be not apply contrary to the UK ' s international legal obligation . it also ensure that guidance would only take into account a person ' s illegal entry , arrival or presence , if they arrive as an adult , when there be a safe route under the Immigration Rules available to they , and it would have be reasonable to expect they to have use that route . amendment 1 , clause 3 , page 2 , line 28 , after " such threat " , insert — " include the threat pose to UK biosecurity by illegal meat import , " . this amendment require the Border Security Commander ( " the Commander " ) , to have regard to the threat pose to UK biosecurity by illegal meat import . amendment 31 , page 2 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the strategic priority document issue under subsection ( 2 ) must support the Home Office ' s UK Border Strategy . " this amendment would require that the Border Security Commander ' s strategic priority document support the UK Border Strategy . amendment 2 , page 3 , line 2 , after " border " , insert " , include biosecurity " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 , and clarify that UK biosecurity be an element of border security . amendment 4 , page 7 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , p can not commit an offence if p be — ( a ) an individual force or coerce into criminal activity , ( b ) a parent , family member or guardian accompany minor , ( c ) a victim of human trafficking or modern slavery , ( d ) a survivor of torture , gender - base violence or severe trauma , ( e ) an unaccompanied child , ( f ) a person at risk of persecution , ( g ) a pregnant woman , or ( h ) a person hold refugee status . " this amendment would specify that the offence create by clause 13 ( supply article for use in immigration crime ) can not be apply to certain category of individual . amendment 36 , in clause 14 , page 8 , line 21 , at end insert — " or , ( c ) their action be — ( i ) solely as part of their own journey , and ( ii ) they do not gain financially from the action . " this amendment seek to ensure that the new criminal offence be target at people smuggler rather than those seek asylum by amend the statutory defence . amendment 30 , page 8 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , p can not commit an offence if p be — ( a ) an individual force or coerce into criminal activity , ( b ) a parent , family member or guardian accompany minor , ( c ) a victim of human trafficking or modern slavery , ( d ) a survivor of torture , gender - base violence or severe trauma , ( e ) an unaccompanied child , ( f ) a person at risk of persecution , ( g ) a pregnant woman , or ( h ) a person hold refugee status . " this amendment would specify that the offence create by clause 14 ( handle article for use in immigration crime ) can not be apply to certain category of individual . amendment 37 , in clause 15 , page 9 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( i ) a telephonic device ( j ) mean for charge a telephonic device " this amendment add to the list of article that aren ' t include as relevant article for the purpose of the new criminal offence of supply or handle item to be use by people make a dangerous journey . amendment 38 , in clause 16 , page 9 , line 38 , leave out from " journey " to end of line 39 and insert — " that they would not benefit from financially . " this amendment seek to ensure that the new criminal offence be target at people smuggler rather than those seek asylum by amend the statutory defence . amendment 5 , in clause 18 , page 11 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( e1c ) for the purpose of subsection ( E1A ) and ( E1B ) a person can not commit an offence if the person be — ( a ) an individual force or coerce into criminal activity , ( b ) a parent , family member or guardian accompany minor , ( c ) a victim of human trafficking or modern slavery , ( d ) a survivor of torture , gender - base violence or severe trauma , ( e ) an unaccompanied child , ( f ) a person at risk of persecution , ( g ) a pregnant woman , or ( h ) a person hold refugee status . " this amendment would specify that the offence create by clause 18 ( endanger another during sea crossing to United Kingdom ) can not be apply to certain category of individual . government amendment 6 to 12 . Amendment 32 , page 30 , line 29 , leave out clause 37 . this amendment would remove the clause relate to the repeal of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . amendment 33 , page 30 , line 31 , leave out clause 38 . this amendment would remove the clause relate to the repeal of immigration legislation . amendment 35 , in clause 38 , page 30 , line 34 , leave out " 11 " and insert " 12 " . this amendment would add section 12 , concern the Secretary of State ' s power to detain people under the Immigration Act 1972 , to the list of section of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 to be repeal . Amendment 34 , page 31 , line 1 , leave out " 28 " and insert " 29 " . this amendment would repeal Section 29 of the Illegal Immigration Act 2024 , which require the Secretary of State to remove people who have seek to use modern slavery protection in " bad faith " . amendment 3 , page 31 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( i ) section 29 and 59 . " this amendment would add section 29 and 59 to the list of section of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 to be repeal . government amendment 13 to 29 . before I speak about the key Government amendment table on Report , I would like to recall why the Government have bring forward the Bill . we be work to take the necessary action to secure our border , bring order to the chaotic immigration and asylum system we inherit , and go after the dangerous criminal gang that undermine our border security . this legislation be part of that plan for change . for six year , the organise gang behind small boat crossing have be allow to take hold , so we be strengthen international partnership , enhance enforcement operation nationally and internationally , and equip ourselves with the tool we need to identify , disrupt and dismantle criminal gang , while strengthen the security of our border . the organise immigration crime summit host by the Government in London last month mobilise over 40 country and organisation to launch an unprecedented global fight against the ruthless people - smuggle gang . the new landmark measure in the Bill will provide law enforcement agency work across the border security system with strong power to pursue , disrupt and deter organise immigration crime . I thank the Minister for give way . I have ask question in this Chamber — to be fair to the Minister , she have answer in a positive fashion — on border security in Northern Ireland ; people can come from the Republic of Ireland into Northern Ireland and can then cross into the UK . it be so important that the border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland be closed . what in - depth discussion have take place between the Garda S í och á na , the Police Service of Northern Ireland and the security force to ensure that that avenue of illegal immigration be close for good ? as I have before , I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the border security force in this country work very closely with the PSNI and the Garda S í och á na to deal with all potential threat in the common travel area . I assure he that we keep a very close eye on what be go on there to ensure that the hon . Gentleman ' s worry be properly address . the Bill strengthen the immigration and asylum system . we be repeal the costly and unworkable legislation introduce by the previous Government , and be introduce new provision to address shortcoming , tackle harm , and build a more efficient and robust system . the Bill be about make change to enable a properly function immigration and asylum system that ensure that those with a genuine right to be here be properly support , while those who have no legal right to remain in the UK do not abuse the system and undermine the protection the UK have a history of provide for those in need . I thank the Minister for give way ; she be give a really important speech on a very important subject . do she agree that part of the issue with the asylum system be the backlog create by the previous Government , who wrongly decide that the good way to deal with the issue be to make the process take long , as some sort of deterrent ? that mean there be a huge backlog , which this Government have to tackle . my hon . friend be right . we inherit a system in total chaos ; asylum decision making have all but ground to a halt . many , many ten of thousand of people be leave have claim asylum , as the law allow they to , but unable to be process because the previous Government pass a law that make it illegal for they to be process . they be leave in limbo . the case be just pile up and cost the taxpayer a fortune . we have have to untangle the situation . I thank the Minister for give way ; she be be most generous with her time . she will be aware that more than 600 illegal migrant have enter this country today . they could get up to all sort of mischief , and commit crime and maybe even act of terrorism . do she agree that these young man cross the channel should be immediately detain and deport , along with the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) ? I certainly hope that that kind of comment might be a joke . I wonder whether that kind of arbitrary treatment of people who be in this country would become the norm for Reform , if we come out of the european convention on human right , as the hon . Member want . we be a law - abide Government . the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) have a complete right to his opinion and a complete right to express they , from whichever side of the House he sit . I have personally work with he and have a great deal of respect for he , so I be shocked that the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) think that an appropriate thing to say in this place . on a slightly more constructive point , do the Minister agree that call for the process to allow asylum seeker to work after they have be in the country for three month would allow they to integrate more closely with their community and to earn money to support themselves ? a measure to change the arrangement from 12 month to three month would make a massive difference to asylum seeker , reduce the bill for hotel and allow people to contribute to the community they want to be a part of . we will come to these debate when we get on to debate the new clause to which the hon . Gentleman be refer . we have be clear from the Government Benches about the balance between respect work visa , which people have to apply for if they be come to work here , and allow asylum seeker who have not apply for work to come and work at that sort of length . the change that he suggest would risk undermine the system . we have a disagreement about timing . the answer to his question be that at the moment an asylum seeker can work if their case have not be hear after 12 month , if that be through no fault of their own . we be talk about time here , and the balance between not undermine our work visa system and have a pull factor for more people to come across illegally . I thank the Minister for the remark she just make . would she accept that people who make an incredibly dangerous journey and be exploit in do so be often totally desperate , be victim of human right abuse and war , and have be through horrendous journey to get there ? one day , they will find somewhere where they will be able to live their life and make a contribution to our society . as a world , do we not need to look at the plight of refugee as a whole and do much more to try to bring an end to the condition that force people to seek these desperate journey in the first place ? I agree that we in this place have to always think about the humanity involve and not try to label everybody who come into our country when they be claim asylum as some kind of threat or , even bad , as a terrorist or something , as be do by the hon . member for Ashfield . we have to treat every case on its merit , and we have to treat every person as an individual human being , but we also have to recognise — the right hon . member for Islington North need to recognise this too — that not everybody who come across on a boat be the kind of person he describe ; some be the people run the people - smuggle gang . a variety of humanity come across on the boat , just as one can discover a variety of humanity if one come across a pool of human being anywhere . rise — I wish to get on with discuss the amendment , but because I serve with he on the Intelligence and Security Committee , I will give way to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) . be not the truth of the matter that show humanity mean recognise , as the Minister have imply , that some people be come , perfectly understandably , for entirely economic reason ? if you think you could get a well deal in Britain for you and your family , you would turn up and say you be claim asylum on all kind of ground . that be the real truth of it . the system be be game and it have to stop be game . yes in some circumstance , but no in other , because some people who come over be genuine asylum seeker . even under the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government — when he , too , be in the Home Office — such people be grant asylum . as always , there be many different circumstance and each case have to be look at and judge on its merit . rise — I be sorry , but I need to get on , because we do not have a lot of time and I think I have be generous . the Government have table further amendment , to which I now wish to turn , to strengthen the Bill . first , new clause 5 extend right - to - work check . prevent illegal working form a critical part of the Government ' s plan to strengthen the immigration system and restore tough enforcement of the rule , undermine the proposition sell by unscrupulous criminal gang that individual can work in the UK . in reality , such work be illegal and put individual in a vulnerable position and at risk of exploitation . legitimate business be undercut and the wage of lawful worker be negatively impact , with link to other labour market abuse such as tax evasion , breach of the national minimum wage and exploitative working condition . those work illegally in the UK be exploit a loophole in the exist right - to - work scheme , whereby only those organisation that engage individual under a contract of employment be require to carry out right - to - work check . government new clause 5 mean that those who engage individual to work as casual or temporary worker under a worker ' s contract , individual subcontractor , and online matching service that provide detail of service provider to carry out work or service for potential client or customer for remuneration , will be legally require to check a person ' s right to work . individual who be self - employ in the traditional sense , and who contract directly with client , will not be in scope of new clause 5 , ensure that a member of the public directly engage a tradesperson or business will not have to carry out a right - to - work check . that be a long overdue extension of right - to - work check to include sector that be previously out of scope and to crack down on the unscrupulous exploitation of employment law loophole . I note new clause 2 table by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) and new clause 21 in the name of the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) on the Government ' s policy on the right to work for asylum seeker , but it be important , as I say early , to distinguish between those who need protection and those seek to come here to work . although pull factor to the UK be complex , the perception of easy access to the labour market be among the reason that people undertake dangerous journey to the UK . I turn to Government new clause 6 and 7 . first , asylum appeal in the first - tier tribunal of the immigration and asylum chamber currently take an average of nearly 50 week , accord to the late publish statistic . that be because of the huge backlog we inherit when we come into government . government new clause 6 and 7 seek to set a 24 - week statutory timeframe , require the first - tier tribunal of the immigration and asylum chamber to decide support accommodation case and non - detain foreign national offender case within 24 week from the date the appeal be lodge , as far as be reasonably practicable . there be no easy or perfect choice here , but the Government have to take action , and we be focus in the first instance on measure that will allow we to get people out of costly hotel and to facilitate the swift deportation of non - detain foreign national offender , where that be in the public interest . while implement the 24 - week timeframe for support asylum appeal and appeal from non - detain foreign national offender , it be our expectation that the judiciary will continue to prioritise appeal lodge by detain foreign national offender and the most vulnerable . we be work at pace in the Home Office and with the Ministry of Justice and his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service to look at all possible improvement to the end - to - end immigration and appeal system and to the speed and efficiency of decision making and appeal , while continue to guarantee access to justice . we will set out further reform to the asylum system later this summer . the Minister will know that I chair the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . an important thing for we be those of a christian faith and other faith who come here . the Government have be incredibly generous in give they the opportunity of asylum and position here ; scheme of both the previous Government and this Government be to be commend , and I thank they . can the Minister today assure this House , the people I represent here in this United Kingdom and those from overseas that there will still be the opportunity for those who be persecute because of their faith to come here and claim asylum ? none of the change that I have talk about in the new clause will impinge at all on the criterion currently use to determine whether somebody have a need for protection under the refugee convention . clearly , in certain circumstance that include the reality of religious persecution in the homeland . I hope that reassure the hon . Gentleman . government new clause 8 redefine how the UK interpret the phrase " a particularly serious crime " for the purpose of exclude refugee from the protection against refoulement . under exist arrangement , anyone convict of any offence that attract a custodial sentence of 12 month or more will have commit a particularly serious crime for these purpose . those arrangement remain unchanged , but new clause 8 go far and will mean that a particularly serious crime will now include individual who have receive a conviction for a sexual offence list in schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 . importantly for these case , the fact that a particularly serious crime have be commit will be a presumption that can , obviously , be rebut by the individual in question so that they get a fair hearing . schedule 3 to the 2003 Act list the offence that automatically make an offender subject to notification requirement , mean that they have to notify the police of personal detail annually , or whenever their detail change . failure to do so be a criminal offence and the system be sometimes know as the sex offender register . the Government recognise the devastating impact of sexual violence on victim in our community and be fully commit to tackle sexual offence and halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . to achieve that , a broad set of the right power must be available for authority to tackle sexual crime , bring perpetrator to justice and manage sex offender . I accept the wisdom behind this new clause , but will the Minister go far and comment on new clause 39 , in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) ? that new clause be design to put an end to another mischief affect the non - refoulement rule ; it would ensure that primacy be give to the torture convention and the refugee convention , and that it be not possible for the European Court of Human Rights to interpret the european convention on human right in such a way as to exclude those provision . I commend the hon . gentleman for his creativity in ask that question when I be talk about this particular Government new clause . I think we have a debate in Committee on the amendment in the name of the Father of the House , and I certainly intend to come on to it later in our proceeding — hopefully , when he be here . as part of our effort to halve violence against woman and girl , it be important that the small number of asylum seeker and refugee who have be convict of particularly serious crime do not benefit from protection status . not only have they fail to respect the law of the UK by commit sexual crime , but they have undermine public confidence in the system . new clause 8 change the law to deny refugee status to those convict of the abhorrent crime list in schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , treat they with the seriousness they deserve and support our wide mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . the Minister be be very generous in give way . the trouble be that , when the judiciary get hold of this and there be an appeal , they very often cite exceptional circumstance , which be cite in the original legislation but have be interpret over the year in a very liberal way — so much so as to be almost meaningless . will the Minister define more clearly what exceptional circumstance be , so that there can be no doubt in the mind of lawyer about who might be eligible for appeal against decision make by the Home Office , and who be not ? certainly we will come into the detail of how this work once it be on the statute book , in the guidance that be issue , but I be make it very clear to the House tonight that the Government wish those few people — the very small number of asylum seeker and refugee who have be convict of serious sexual offence such that they have be put on the sex offender register — to be deny refugee status . we will also deny refugee status where we be able to show that an individual have be convict in a foreign court for a crime that would have fall under schedule 3 to the 2003 Act if they have be convict in the UK . those convict and make subject to the notification requirement have commit the most serious of sexual offence , which should be include in the definition of a particularly serious crime . I shall move on to the amendment relate to the Immigration Services Commissioner . the Government be seek new power for the Immigration Advice Authority to clamp down on malpractice in the provision of immigration advice . build on clause 40 and schedule 1 , these new measure will extend the power of the Immigration Services Commissioner to ensure effective , modern regulation and enforcement of immigration advice and service . government amendment 24 create the power to amend the definition of " relevant matter " for the different type of immigration advice that can be bring in and out of the Immigration Services Commissioner ' s regulatory oversight . it will introduce great flexibility to keep pace with wide modernisation and transformation of the immigration system . currently those definition be in primary legislation , but this amendment move they into secondary legislation . government amendment 25 allow for a person ' s registration as a provider of immigration advice or immigration service to be cancel or suspend with immediate effect where serious concern be raise regard their action or behaviour . government amendment 26 establish that person who have receive certain severe disciplinary sanction can not continue to provide immigration advice under the supervision of a person regulate by the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 . government amendment 27 introduce additional sanction , specifically monetary penalty , and the ability to amend the amount of fine , enhance the range of tool available to the commissioner to tackle inappropriate or unlawful practice by unregistered adviser and to shore up standard . monetary penalty may be impose up to a maximum of £ 15 , 000 on each regulate organisation that have breach the commissioner ' s code of standard , obstruct an inspection or fail to comply with regulation . government amendment 28 provide the Home Secretary with the power to specify a non - exhaustive list of fee that the Immigration Services Commissioner can charge for the exercise of their regulatory function . have the ability to charge for service such as competence assessment and training will enable the Immigration Services Commissioner to provide more of those service , help to drive up competence , capability and capacity in the sector . finally , Government amendment 29 make provision to expand the exist complaint scheme to include unregulated adviser and organisation and to create a civil recovery scheme where the Immigration Services Commissioner can order the refund of fee or the repayment of compensation to the victim of poor practice . the final Government amendment relate to serious crime prevention order and electronic device . to support operational efficiency , Government amendment 6 to 11 will enable an inspector to authorise a constable to use the power to access , examine , copy , retain or use information under clause 20 , 21 and 23 of the Bill . that be think to be more operationally effective than the current measure in the Bill , which place that authorisation at superintendent level , as I be sure the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) will remember from our long discourse on these matter in Committee . do the Minister find it strange that in a debate on a Bill so important to Reform UK — indeed , it be the party ' s raison d ' ê tre — 80 % of Reform UK mp have leave the Chamber and be , presumably , in the pub ? I think they probably call that campaigning , but it be up to they to justify how long they spend in the pub , or indeed in this Chamber . move to serious crime prevention order and interim serious crime prevention order , Government amendment 14 to 19 will remove Scotland and Northern Ireland from clause 48 , which allow electronic monitoring as a condition of serious crime prevention order and interim serious crime prevention order in terrorism - relate case . the amendment will ensure that the devolve government retain full legislative competence over their exist electronic monitoring regime . for now , I commend all the Government amendment to the House and look forward to contribution from other right hon . and hon . member on the gargantuan group of amendment we be deal with tonight . I rise to speak to new clause 14 and 18 , and to various other new clause and amendment that stand in my name and those of my right hon . and hon . friend . let I start by pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) and for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , who be sit beside I . they toil with enormous fortitude and patience through 12 Committee sitting . they do extremely diligent and good work , and I put on record my thank to they both . the new clause and amendment that we have table be make necessary by the Government ' s abject and appalling failure , since they come to office last July , to control small boat crossing of the english channel . they come to office say that they would " smash the gang " , a claim that be now in tatter . let we take a look at what they have do since 4 July last year . since the election , 35 , 048 people have illegally cross the english channel . that be a 29 % increase on the same period the previous year . this year — 2025 — how be smash the gang go so far ? well , 11 , 806 people have cross , which be the bad start to a year in history . that be an appalling and abject failure , for which this government be responsible . yesterday alone , 232 people cross , and we understand that today , as we stand here , several hundred more people have make that illegal crossing . there be no control over who they be . there be suggestion that some of the suspect in the recent iranian terror case be live in asylum accommodation and may therefore have cross by small boat . I certainly recall that some people cross the channel have very serious prior conviction . the Government have no idea who these people be , and they certainly have no control . the people cross be almost entirely young man . they have push themselves to the front of the queue by pay people smuggler . I do not see they as victim ; they be commit a criminal offence by enter the United Kingdom in this way . it be a criminal offence contrary to section 24 of the Immigration Act 1971 , as I be sure everybody know . rise — if the former leader of the Liberal Democrats want to say something to the contrary , I would be glad to give way . I could not help myself , I ' m afraid . some 87 % of Eritreans come over be refugee . the right hon . gentleman talk about young man . the refugee be young man , because christian young man in Eritrea be conscript to murder their own community , so of course they be disproportionately represent . why do he not take part in this debate on the basis of evidence , rather than play tabloid nonsense ? the hon . Gentleman will know that around the world , there be very many female and child refugee . the last Government welcome many of they here under the UK resettlement scheme from Syria . the young man who push themselves to the front of the queue in Calais be displace potentially more deserving applicant . they be embark from France , which be a manifestly safe country with a well - function asylum system . nobody — include young man from Eritrea — need to leave France to seek sanctuary when they can perfectly well claim asylum in France . article 31 of the refugee convention , which in general term prohibit the criminalisation of refugee , expressly say that that only apply if someone come " directly " from a place of danger . France be not a place of danger . much well that we choose the deserve case , rather than have people pay criminal gang to enter this country illegally from a place , namely France , which be safe . the last Government introduce the idea of have age verification . that be important , because the evidence support the suggestion that some young man claim to be young than they be . many other country use medical age verification system . do my right hon . friend have a reason why the Government decide not to take our amendment forward in Committee , and why they be not consider implement they now ? my hon . friend raise an excellent point . in fact , he draw I to new clause 12 , which we table . it mandate the Government to get on with implement scientific age assessment , which scientifically verify if someone be or be not over the age of 18 . every other european country use these test . it could be , for example , an x - ray of the wrist . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way in a minute . there be more complicated technique these day , such as test dna methylation , and other less intrusive test . we be the only country not to use they . many people who illegally cross the channel claim to be under 18 — they usually claim to be 17 — when common sense would often suggest that they be far old . there be document case where man with beard have end up in school with teenage girl . [ interruption . ] I be go to give way to the hon . member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) in a moment . I ask the Minister , when she reply , to explain to the House her plan for introduce these test . we be an outlier in Europe ; we be the only country not to use they . it be important from a safeguarding perspective to make sure that people who claim to be 17 really be 17 , and not in their mid - 20 . the hon . member for Dover and Deal be very keen to intervene , and I think enthusiasm deserve its reward . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for his condescend tone after his delude rant . I must say to he that he be mislead the House : 400 cross in 2018 , and more than 150 , 000 have cross since . the majority of those be on the Conservative Government ' s watch , so how they can claim that that happen on Labour ' s watch be beyond I . as the new expert — order . I think the hon . Gentleman have have long enough for his very brief intervention . I certainly agree that the hon . Gentleman have have long enough , and his constituent may well agree in a few year ' time . I give the figure very clearly : since the election , 35 , 000 people have cross the channel . that be a 29 % increase on the same period a year before . so far , this year have be the bad year on record — the bad year in history — for illegal channel crossing . the claim to smash the gang lie in tatter . we miss the right hon . gentleman in the Committee . give the sophistication of the organise immigration crime threat to the country , will he explain why he plan on vote against the Bill tonight when it provide counter - terrorism style power that the National Crime Agency and our security service have tell we they want to be able to bring to bear on this serious question ? I miss be in Committee as well , and I miss the prospect of spend hour and hour in the hon . Lady ' s company . perhaps on some other occasion an opportunity will present itself . the hon . Lady invite I to comment on a Third Reading matter , but since she ask the question , when we vote on a Bill at Third Reading — a yes or no vote — we be vote on it in its totality . while the counter - terror measure may have a very marginal benefit — it will be no more than marginal , as she should know — the Bill will also do some extremely damaging thing that will make it a lot hard to control our border . for example , clause 38 repeal pretty much the entirety of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . will the right hon . member give way ? I will answer the question first . among other thing , the Illegal Migration Act require the Government to remove people who arrive here illegally , and it say there be no path to citizenship for somebody who come to this country illegally , which be a very sensible measure . this Bill repeal almost all of that . the Bill also remove from the statute book the legislative basis to implement a removal deterrent . one of the first thing the Government do on come into office be cancel the Rwanda scheme . will the right hon . member give way ? no , I will answer the question first . the Government cancel the Rwanda scheme before it even start . the first flight have be due to take off on 24 July . everybody , include the National Crime Agency , have warn that without a removal deterrent we be not go to stop the boat . law enforcement alone — important though it be — be not enough , and a border security commander with no power be certainly not enough . experience from around the world show that we need a removal deterrent . if people enter the UK illegally from France and be rapidly remove to somewhere else , be it Rwanda or elsewhere , other will not attempt the crossing because they know that removal will follow . Australia try something very similar about 10 year ago — it be call Operation Sovereign Borders . Australia have a big problem than we do — at that time there be 50 , 000 people a year crossing — and within the space of only a few month , the removal deterrent it use stop the illegal maritime arrival , as Australia call they , entirely . the number go to zero , and it save life in the process . Australia use an island call Nauru rather than Rwanda , but the principle be the same . Home Office Ministers must by now be regret their hastiness , because in the absence of any removal deterrent , the number have go through the roof . as I say already , this year so far have be the bad in history . without a removal deterrent , there be no hope of stop the crossing . clause 37 of the Bill repeal the entirety of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 , and amendment 32 seek to remove clause 37 . there will probably come a time — if not today , then in six month ; and if not in six month , then in 12 month — when Labour Ministers will realise that their plan be not work , that the number be get bad , and that without a removal deterrent they be not go to stop the boat . that be why this Bill and their policy be so misguided , and it be why the number this year have be the bad in history . I wonder whether the shadow Home Secretary could comment on the view of his colleague the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , who say during the Public Bill Committee that " immigration be too high . previous government have fail to solve it . " – – [ Official Report , Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Public Bill Committee , 18 March 2025 ; c . 347 . ] I wonder whether he could also comment on the remark of the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , who say in Committee : " the system be break . it have be break for many decade , and that be now plain to see . " – – [ Official Report , Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Public Bill Committee , 18 March 2025 ; c . 335 . ] I agree with both my colleague , and that be why we have table amendment and new clause to address this issue . I will come on to those in a moment . it be a Labour Government that choose to cancel the removal deterrent before it start , and that be why the number be high than they have ever be in history . it be a result of their choice . talk of the Rwanda scheme , the previous Tory Government spend £ 700 million on a scheme that see four volunteer remove . that figure include £ 290 million give to Rwanda for nothing in return and £ 134 million on IT system that be never use . can we get a refund ? as I say already , the plan be never start . the first plane be due to take off on 24 July , but the Labour Government cancel it within day of come to office . the money would have be extremely well spend have the scheme start , because the deterrent effect would have stop the boat , mean that we would not have ten of thousand of people in hotel cost billion and billion . while we be on the topic of hotel , let we look at how the Labour Government ' s pledge during the election to end the use of asylum hotel be go . the number in asylum hotel have go up by 8 , 000 so far under this Labour Government . speak of removal deterrent , I be in Berlin four or five week ago talk to member of the CDU party , which be now in Government . the incoming german Government intend to implement a removal deterrent very similar in concept to the Rwanda scheme . so other government around the world have realise that they have to do this ; it work in Australia , and the new german Government will be do something very similar . it be just our government who be go headlong in the opposite direction . will the shadow Secretary of State give way ? I will make some progress . turn to the amendment on indefinite leave to remain , new clause 11 would limit eligibility for ILR to 10 year , and new clause 17 would set various condition on ILR . new clause 17 essentially say that to get ILR after 10 year a person have to have make an economic contribution , and can not be a burden on other taxpayer . those strike I as very fair measure . I notice that in the immigration announcement by the Prime Minister this morning , he make reference to 10 year for ILR , despite the fact that the Minister and her colleague vote against that measure just a few week ago . I wonder what have magically change their mind . if they be serious about such a measure , will they support new clause 11 , which would implement what the Prime Minister announce this morning , and vote for it later today ? if I understand the Prime Minister ' s announcement correctly , he say that when someone reach 10 year of residence , they automatically qualify for indefinite leave to remain under the Government ' s proposal . what we propose in new clause 17 be that there should be conditionality , even after 10 year . the person should be make some kind of contribution to the country in order to qualify for indefinite leave to remain . will the Minister take the opportunity to agree with that approach and therefore support new clause 17 ? I will turn now to the two new clause that we intend to push to a vote this evening . first , new clause 18 would establish a bind cap on immigration number each year , to be vote on in Parliament . it would be democratically accountable and completely transparent . it will be up to Parliament to debate what the number should be , but I would argue that it should be a lot low than any recent number we have see , and indeed a lot low than the recent forecast from the Office for National Statistics and the Office for Budget Responsibility . will the right hon . member give way ? let I finish my point . the critical point be that whatever one ' s view on the number , it would be Parliament that vote to cap migration every year . never again would we see immigration rise to level far high than anyone intend . we would never again see unintended consequence , where visa rule be set up but number end up be much high . a good example of that be the health and social care visa , which be initially suppose to be for only a few thousand people but end up be for hundred of thousand . with a cap mechanism in place , that would never happen again . I invite the Minister to tell I , when she respond , whether she would support a bind annual cap , decide by this Parliament . will she support democratic accountability for that number , and if not , why on earth not ? I can see no reason at all why this elect Parliament should not set the limit each year and why we should instead end up with number that many of we would think be far too high . the right hon . Gentleman be speak with great confidence , as ever — and great volume , I have to say . he be very clear about have the cap , but it be less clear what level he believe it should be set at . he say that it should be low than the current number , but from his experience and with his confidence , what level do he feel it should be set at ? what would his first proposal be for the cap ? how about the hon . gentleman vote for the cap this evening , and then we can debate what level it should be set at ? we be not go to debate the level of a cap that currently do not even exist . his own Front Benchers be try to deny he and every member of this House a voice on this issue . if Labour member believe in Parliament decide these issue and in democratic accountability , they will vote for new clause 18 and let Parliament decide what the cap should be . the cap idea build on work that the last Government want to bring forward in relation to refugee and asylum seeker . the last Government ask council to work out how many they could accommodate . it seem remarkably practical to say that while we be a generous nation able to look after people in need , that come with a capacity . the whole idea would be to implement a cap and for all council in England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland to say what number they could hold , and for we to vote on it as a nation . be that something my right hon . friend would consider when it come to deal with asylum seeker ? my hon . friend make a good point , and it be germane to the early discussion about people cross the channel illegally . so long as we have 11 , 000 or 12 , 000 people cross the channel a year — as I say , this be the bad year ever — it be very difficult to create safe and legal route , because our capacity be completely take up by people enter the country illegally . if we can stop illegal migration by use the measure I suggest , and a removal deterrent in particular , that will create capacity for a limited safe and legal route for people who we — the Government and Parliament — judge to be deserve . we do that for the Syria crisis , where the UK resettlement scheme go to refugee camp on the syrian border , identify the most vulnerable refugee — often woman and child — and bring they to the UK , instead of have people cross the channel illegally and push their way to the front of the queue . that be exactly what a new , tough approach on illegal immigration would facilitate . will the right hon . member give way ? I be go to make a bit of progress . the second amendment that we intend to put to a vote , new clause 14 , concern the Human Rights Act . the Government , through the Home Secretary in her statement and the Minister in her remark a few moment ago , talk about tinker with article 8 , but the truth be that that will not make any meaningful difference . it be worth remind ourselves of the history of this . the european convention on human right be an international treaty that we enter into — indeed , we help to draft it — in 1950 . in 1998 the Blair Government pass the Human Rights Act , which essentially incorporate the echr into domestic law . so UK court , when make any immigration decision , or indeed any other decision , can use their interpretation of the echr when interpret legislation pass by this House and to prevent the Government from take a particular executive action that might include remove or deport someone . the Act empower UK judge to use the echr however they see fit . the problem with the ECHR be that it be not like a piece of domestic legislation such as the Bill we be consider , which be detailed and have everything precisely define . the echr be vaguely word . for example , article 3 be on freedom from torture and inhuman or degrading treatment and article 8 be on the right to a private and family life . there be nothing objectionable about those article in themselves ; the problem be that , over the year , judge have expand their interpretation of they in ever more extraordinary way , which defy common sense . let I just give the House a couple of example of such judgment . a paedophile of zimbabwean nationality quite rightly fall for deportation under section 32 of the UK Borders Act 2007 . he should have be deport , but a UK judge — not a Strasbourg judge — say " no , no . " they say that , under their interpretation of the ECHR , that convict paedophile might face " some hostility " if they be return to Zimbabwe in a manner that breach their article 3 right — not their article 8 right — so they say that that convict paedophile could stay here in the UK . what about the human right of british child to be protect from paedophile like that ? what about the right of british citizen to be protect from foreign offender ? in another case , an iraqi drug dealer rightly fall for deportation back to Iraq , but a judge find that he have become too westernised and therefore could not be return to Iraq , his country of nationality and country of origin . those be just two example of thousand where domestic UK judge have stretch the definition of ECHR article in a way that defy all common sense , and certainly go far beyond anything the original framer of the ECHR have in mind when they sign up to it in 1950 . that be why , as a first step , we propose to repeal the Human Rights Act in relation to all immigration matter so that domestic UK judge would no long be able to apply their own creative and expansive interpretation of the echr when make immigration decision ; instead , they would have regard solely and exclusively to domestic legislation that we have pass in this House . that strike I as a common - sense measure that would end the handing down of ridiculous judgment and enable the Government to ensure that people with no right to be here and dangerous foreign criminal could be remove . at the moment , judge be prevent that , use interpretation that completely defy common sense . the right hon . member be clearly concerned about child protection . do he read the testimony of the Children ' s Commissioner about the child who make their way to our country and go miss in the system ? they be victim of rape , sexual abuse and exploitation — some of the most horrendous thing that can happen . do he regret the role of his Government in facilitate such abuse ? order . I be sure the shadow Home Secretary be aware that time be run on . Madam Deputy Speaker , I will follow your injunction to wind up . of course , we need to pay attention to the right and protection of child , but have people smuggle across the english channel on boat do not in any way help with that . if the Government be serious about get back control of the immigration system and stop illegal immigration , they will support our measure that would put a cap on migration and repeal the Human Rights Act in relation to immigration matter . rise — order . we will start with an immediate four - minute time limit , with the exception of Front - Bench speech and any maiden speech . the intention to repeal much of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 through this Bill , and the scrapping of the Rwanda scheme in particular , be extremely welcome . year of brutal Tory policy that have criminalise , persecute and scapegoate migrant and those seek safety on our shore must be unravel by this Labour Government , but we must go far , fast , and turn our back entirely on the politic of hate and division if we be to avoid repeat of the recent election result . the riot that take place in my city last year , which target asylum accommodation and organisation and visibly black people and business , do not emerge from nowhere ; they be the result of the myth and misinformation perpetuate by medium and social medium . for our Prime Minister to say today that unfettered immigration risk the UK become " an island of stranger " be deeply concern . we can not concede to the anti - migrant agenda promote by those who thrive on division . it be simply dishonest to suggest that migration cause fall living standard . it be not migrant but political decision that have hollow out our community , bring public service to their knee and allow inequality to run rampant . I be proud of my african and irish heritage , and proud that my home , Liverpool , be a city of sanctuary . however , I be not proud of some of the language be use today , particularly the phrase , " island of stranger , " which echo the device and cruel politic of our past . I have have constituent say that it be reminiscent of the " river of blood " speech . mine be a port city , where people arrive from all over the globe , and our city be far well for it . these people be neighbour and friend . Liverpool have a world - lead high education sector ; thousand of international student want to train there . I have speak to the vice - chancellor of Liverpool Hope University and Liverpool John Moores University , who be both concerned about the announcement make today . the Labour Government must unequivocally make the case that the fight against racism and scapegoating be the same fight as that against low pay , poor housing and crumble public service . we can not defeat one without the other . while the Bill go some way towards repair the damage do by the previous Government , the overall approach remain punitive , particularly in clause 41 , which will expand the Home Office ' s power of detention retrospectively . the new criminal offence in part 1 and 2 be deeply concern , as be the retention of section 29 of the Illegal Migration Act , which remove protection for victim of modern slavery , and section 59 of that Act , which make asylum and human right claim from a list of country inadmissible . instead , we should focus on restore the right to seek asylum in the UK , open up safe route , abandon offshore processing , resolve the legal aid crisis , restore the right to work , increase support rate for asylum seeker and end the use of immigration detention and harmful , destructive rhetoric — in short , we should focus on build a compassionate , right - base and evidence - lead approach to immigration and asylum . I be proud to have add my name in support of new clause 1 , which would enshrine in law a duty on the Home Office to publish quarterly statistic — detailed information — on death in the asylum system and on small boat channel crossing . we know that life be be lose , but we do not know how many , which make our system an outlier . I call on the Home Secretary to take on board those comment . I rise to speak to new clause 21 and other new clause in my name and those of other hon . member . I put on record my particular thank to my hon . friend the Members for Woking ( Mr Forster ) , and for Mid Dunbartonshire ( Susan Murray ) , for the sterling shift they put in on the Bill Committee . we can all agree on the need to stop these perilous channel crossing , but under the Conservatives , safe and legal route be dismantle , force vulnerable people into the hand of criminal gang . meanwhile , the asylum system be leave to rot , and a staggering backlog grow year after year . now we have thousand of people stick in limbo , unable to work , rebuild their life or contribute to the UK economy , while taxpayer foot the bill for hotel accommodation in community like mine . do the hon . Lady accept that , despite what she have just say , under the last term of the Conservative Government , record number of people come here through resettlement scheme , which be safe and legal route ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for intervene on I in debate on immigration ; this be not the first time we have have a conversation of this nature . Ukrainians and Hongkongers come here under the previous Government , and that be to be welcome — and Afghans . and Afghans ; the hon . Gentleman make a valid point . but there be country in the world — Eritrea , Sudan and other — from which there be no safe and legal route , and that be what new clause 21 be about . the Home Secretary say in the White Paper publish this morning that we need an immigration system that be " fair and effective " , and I strongly agree with she . the current system be neither , and I would have like to have see more in the Bill to change that . the Liberal Democrats believe in a common - sense immigration and asylum system that treat people with dignity . that mean scrap headline - chase gimmick , such as the Conservatives ' Rwanda plan , invest in swift decision making , and tackle the problem of criminal gang at its root . we welcome some of the measure in the Bill to achieve those end , but one of the most glaring injustice of our system be the ban on work for people seek asylum . right now , those who have be wait month and month for a decision be bar from work to support themselves and their family , and from contribute to the economy . that be wasteful and demoralising ; it be a lose - lose for everyone . new clause 21 in my name would change that . it propose that if someone have be wait for more than three month , they should be able to pay their fair share . I know from those seek asylum in my area that these be people who want to pay their way , contribute their skill and taxis and be part of the local community . we should not be stop they . this be about common sense . give people the right to work will ease the pressure on public finance and give dignity back to those catch up in the system . it will help employer to fill vacancy at a time of work shortage , and allow asylum seeker to build the foundation of a new life . I urge colleague across the House to support this new clause . it be the fair and practical thing to do , and it benefit we all . any Government serious about tackle the smuggling gang — and I believe that this Government be — must cut off the gang ' business model at the source . new clause 22 and 36 would require the Government to set out new safe and legal route , give those flee persecution a proper alternative to dangerous crossing . the lack of these route be a direct cause of the current crisis . we can not keep say that we want to stop the boat while slam shut every door to safety for those who need it . there must certainly be great scope for family reunion . no child should have to face the trauma of flee war or persecution alone , only to be deny proper contact with their love one . new clause 27 would widen family reunion rule , so that unaccompanied child refugee could be join by their close relative . on the point about reunite family , the shadow Minister seem to be utterly bemuse as to why so many migrant and illegal immigrant be male . I wonder whether my hon . friend be aware of the doctor without Borders report that show that a large number of sub - saharan african woman be be inject with such high level of contraceptive as to make they permanently infertile , because they be be rape so many time on their way here that they could not then work to pay off their debt , because they be pregnant . a fair system would allow more woman and child to come to the UK . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that point . that be one of a number of utterly hideous story that any of we could hear through any of the wonderful body and non - governmental organisation work with asylum seeker and refugee who be come to this country . I put on record my thank to my hon . friend from the other place , Baroness Hamwee , who have do a huge amount of work on family reunification . this be about basic humanity . these child need safety and the support of their family to truly rebuild their life . People smuggle of the type that this government be try to crack down on be an international problem , and we can not solve it by go it alone . new clause 23 to 26 will bolster our co - operation with Europol , encourage regular meeting with its leadership and establish joint taskforce , ensure more resource and provide a transparent system of report back to Parliament . to dismantle these smuggling network , we need to work hand in glove with our european ally . this Bill could go far to strengthen those vital tie . the UK should be lead on this , not lag behind . the Liberal Democrats will keep fight for a system that be fair , fast and humane , in which there be safe route , family can be reunite , and those who come here be treat with dignity and can contribute to their new community . our new clause offer practical step to rebuild an asylum system that work for all of we , and I urge the House to back they today for practical , humane and effective solution . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and to the support provide to my office by the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy Project . I also chair the all - party parliamentary group on refugee . I thank the Ministers and member of the Public Bill Committee for their work on this Bill , which I continue to support as a whole . my constituent in Folkestone and Hythe want to see Parliament give our law enforcement agency the power that they need to tackle these highly sophisticated , organised criminal . the small boat industry , which be allow to run for year under the Conservatives , flourish in part because of the lack of power for the National Crime Agency and the lack of co - ordination with our european partner . we absolutely do not need the performative politic of the Conservatives , include their new clause 14 to disapply the Human Rights Act from immigration function . we have just have the VE day 80th anniversary , and it be that fundamentally important victory over tyranny in Europe that lead to european democracy unite to safeguard the right of everyone live in Europe . when I meet ukrainian politician at the Council of Europe in January this year , they be very clear that they need human right , the rule of law , democracy and unity of value in Europe , and they need we , the United Kingdom , to help they in their fight against an enemy that lack those principle . we be at a point in history when it be more important than ever to be clear about our value , what make our society one to be proud of , and what we have in common with our neighbour and friend . rightly , the Government will not disapply the Human Rights Act from one group today ; maybe the Conservatives would want to deprive another group of it tomorrow . the Opposition ' s new clause , which I will oppose , be a reminder of this important dividing line in our politic . I also want to comment on new clause 3 on safe and manage route to asylum . I raise this issue in the Chamber on Second Reading . I fully accept that safe route will not , on their own , stop small boat crossing ; that be why we need the enforcement measure in this Bill . however , it be unsustainable to continue to make it virtually impossible to claim asylum lawfully , and then criminalise those who have make valid claim , but who have no lawful mean of access the asylum system . I be grateful to the Minister for Migration and Citizenship , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) , for agree to meet I next week to discuss this issue . a recent report by the APPG on refugee propose a pilot system for those from specific conflict zone who have strong claim to be allow to travel here , so that their claim could be fully examine on UK soil . that would build an evidence base on the issue , to inform future policy . finally , on british citizenship , though the Government be repeal the measure that bar citizenship for those arrive unlawfully , they have effectively reintroduce it via policy . I would ask they to rethink their approach . by the time a person in that situation apply for citizenship , they will have be grant asylum , have a well - found claim . they will have be here for over five or six year ; they will be of entirely good character ; and they may be make a valid contribution to our society . however , because of their method of entry all those year ago , they could be prevent from access citizenship and integrate in this country . we need measure to promote , rather than hinder , the integration of those lawfully present here . despite these point , I support the Bill , and thank the Government and Members for their work on it . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , include my work with the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy Project . new clause 21 would help the Government to tackle poverty , prevent homelessness and demonstrate competence . enable asylum seeker to work would reduce the asylum support budget because they could instead support themselves . it would help cohesion between host community and asylum seeker if asylum seeker be see to be pay their way . it would also reduce the need to use hotel to house asylum seeker . those seek asylum should have the dignity of be able to work , and the taxpayer should get the benefit of the massively reduce cost that that would bring . I turn to new clause 22 and 35 on safe route and humanitarian visa . as thing stand , desperate people choose unsafe journey to uncertain destination , deliver by those who care nothing for their welfare and who continue to cash in while people continue to die in terror in the Mediterranean and in the channel . for people escape tragedy and terror in Eritrea , Sudan and elsewhere who have pass through the lawless horror that be Libya and have cross the Mediterranean , the channel hold few fear than it would do for the like of we , so we need an intervention that will change people ' s decision . new clause 35 suggest a pilot visa scheme to authorise people who meet the criterion to travel to the United Kingdom safely in order to claim asylum . the proposal would mean a control , order , plan , dignified and humane process . talk of " stranger " , " invasion " and " swarm of migrant " be despicable . the implication that not just refugee but diaspora community here in the UK be somehow less citizen , not really british , be utterly shameful language and I condemn it . politician and commentator who use such language be guilty , frankly , of spend too much time online and too little time on the doorstep , in market square , in church , in community and even in the pub . the reason the Rwanda scheme be so unpopular be not — shockingly — because every Brit be a bleed - heart liberal , but because the scheme be unfair and ineffective . the british people just want fairness and competence , so I urge the Government not to fall into the Tory trap of make ludicrous promise they can not keep and I counsel other opposition party not to make ludicrous promise that they would not be able to keep either , because one day they may find themselves in power and face the wrath of an electorate for their failure to deliver . in these discussion on migration , I have read and hear far too many reference to the apparent threat to Britain ' s christian heritage . well , let I finish by say this : the Bible do not tell we what our policy should be , but it definitely tell we what our posture and attitude should be . I be afraid that the Prime Minister make awful remark today about an " island of stranger " . Leviticus 19 rebuke he : " the stranger who reside with you shall be to you like someone native - bear among you ; and you shall love he as yourself , " . as the socially conservative american theologian , Russell Moore , say , " yes , Jesus be a refugee . and he be still in their camp . we should be too . " I represent Walthamstow ; once upon a time , the architect of the echr , Winston Churchill , be our constituency next - door neighbour . but let we be under no illusion and let we be frank , because people in this Chamber will write off my corner of London as some nirvana of good relation and say that we do not get issue or challenge with immigration : we have people in our community who judge people on the basis of their skin colour and who listen to the social medium trope ; and we have people who seek division , who share that common aim and who will find somebody to blame rather than a solution for the challenge we face . legislation need to counter that , not facilitate it , because the reality be that across this country there be too many people with too much month at the end of their money , and it be too easy to tell those people that immigrant be the reason why , rather than tell they the truth . the people in my community be not wake ; they be wise . they get that some be try to tell they that immigrant be the problem , when the truth be that it be actually politician who do not face up to the challenge we have . People in my community , like those across this country — whether they be old friend or stranger , incomer from Hackney or even far afield — can all find common ground if they do not get their bin collect , if they can not park their car or if they feel that their child be at risk . in this country , people find humanity in each other — in our common grumble . that be what it mean to be british : to have a moan about the reality of daily life . those who want to divide we — who tell we the way forward be find somebody to blame rather than a solution to the challenge — do nobody a service . let we talk about what we could do in this Bill to make thing well . I support new clause 37 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) from the other end of the Victoria line . we should not be make a profit from child who be seek to be citizen who have the right to remain here . I draw the Minister ' s attention to new clause 44 , which I have table . we could learn from Australia and New Zealand — those bastion of progressive immigration policy — and introduce a worker ' s justice visa . we really need to help overseas worker in our community who be at the behest of their sponsor . it be outrageous that there be people in this country whose future rely on somebody else ' s largesse , rather than their basic human right . we can learn from Australia and New Zealand in introduce such a visa in order to correct the issue whereby somebody who be clearly a victim of modern slavery can not stay in the country to pursue that claim , so the person make they a slave can not be hold to account . do my hon . friend agree that we have significant problem in this country as the system to address modern slavery have degrade ? will she join I in push for the national referral mechanism to be review , as the Government promise , to tackle exactly what she be talk about ? absolutely . let I be clear : I recognise that my suggestion will not address all the issue with overseas domestic worker , but a worker ' s justice visa could be the start of ensure that our immigration system be more functional . I also draw the Minister ' s attention to new clause 45 , which be about the " good character requirement " . it make no sense to those of we concerned about integration to say to somebody that they may stay in this country — that they have a well - found fear of persecution — but that they will never be able to make a life here , that they will always end up pay more for their mortgage because they will not be able to get a proper income , and that they will never be able to get job as easily as other , so they might be more dependent on benefit . that be what happen when we start deny citizenship to people who have the right to be here . the Refugee Council recognise that the requirement will affect 71 , 000 people because it be retrospective . it be little wonder that a court case be now in train . bad policymake in the face of social medium trope do nobody any favour , and I urge Ministers to look again at the provision . new clause 45 be simple : it be about we uphold our international obligation . it be about say that if there be a safe route , absolutely it would be bad character not to use it , but I would love some Opposition Members , who be no long in their place , to tell I what the safe route from Iran be , when many people on the boat be from Iran . we have to get immigration policy right . I stand here as somebody who do not want open border . I want a fair and just immigration service . I learn in my first year in this place from the former Home Secretary Jack Straw , who tell I there be two divide : leave and right , and those people who have to deal with the UK Border Agency and those who do not . the legislation before we do many welcome thing , but it also do thing that I fear we will come to regret in future — just as we will come to regret pander to those who wish to divide we , rather than get on and sort out why we still have a cost of living crisis . the Government will have my support if they want to do more to bring people together , not just by sort out bin collection — that perennial challenge — but by invest in everybody , whether they be bear here or have come here to make a contribution . after all , those of we with refugee heritage — whether we be huguenot , farage or Creasys — deserve and need well . we will now start a three - minute time limit . my constituency have a proud and long history of support those flee persecution . it be home to the Ockenden Venture , a trailblaze charity found in the 1950 to help resettle refugee from post - war Europe , Vietnam and beyond . Humfrey Malins , the former Conservative MP for Woking even set up a national immigration service . that legacy remind we of the good of british value . it be important , especially today , that we reflect on that and on what make Britain great . however , this Bill fall far short of those value — it be not very great at all . I sit on the Public Bill Committee , where I table 15 amendment . although I support the part of the Bill that seek to tackle the cruel trade of people smuggle , I be deeply concerned that once again this Government be prioritise punitive - sound headline over practical solution . the Bill completely fail to lift the ban on asylum seeker work while they await a decision . that be why I support new clause 21 . People spend year in limbo wait for their application to be process , with no right to contribute , no right to earn and no hope of build their life . we hear in Committee that , as a result of the Conservative Government ' s mishandle of the situation , 19 people have wait 10 year or more for their claim to be settle . they be capable adult who should have be contribute to the economy . let people work be the right thing to do . that be why Australia let people work straightaway , why Canada allow refugee to apply for a work permit while their application be be process , and why the United States allow people seek asylum to work after six month . human being be amazing creature , capable of so much . it be waste for people essentially to be keep away from society . we want to support they ; that be what new clause 21 would do , by give people the right to work after three month . I urge colleague to support it . I will briefly address safe and legal route . Ukraine have show we that provide safe and legal route take away the people smuggle and illegal immigration . that be why I support liberal Democrat new clause 22 and 36 , and SNP new clause 3 . those vital measure would tackle the root cause of dangerous crossing , and I hope that member will support they . critically , we talk in Committee about Interpol . we be turn our back ; we be not ask Europe to help we with this problem — the Government refuse to do so . instead of isolate ourselves , we should be lead the effort to tackle people - smuggle gang . we can not solve the global crisis without resolve those main issue , but we can do well . Britain have a proud history , and this Bill should be a lot well . I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests about the help that I receive from the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy Project . I be also the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on migration . I welcome the Government ' s action in the Bill to repeal part of the previous Government ' s repeat gimmick and nonsense legislation in the last Parliament . I will speak to new clause 1 , 2 and 37 , all of which I have sponsor . new clause 1 be table by my right hon . friend — apology , I should have say my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) ; she be not right honourable , but she should be . the new clause would require the Home Office to publish quarterly statistic and information on death in the asylum system and small boat channel crossing . under the last government , a horrifying number of refugee and people seek asylum die try to cross the channel and in Home Office accommodation . in 2024 , that number reach a record high . despite daily and weekly report on the number of people stop or deport , we still do not have regular , clear and transparent reporting on those who have lose their life in the system . that be incredibly important , not just morally but in order to address the evidence gap , so that we get policy right . new clause 2 would require report on the right to work . I hear what the Minister say about this be a discussion about time , but mental health and working right be not separate issue . the majority of asylum seeker in the UK be unable to work and use their skill to support themselves and their family or even to save enough to rent a home . instead , they be trap , isolated , inactive and dependent on state support . there be countless compelling reason why asylum seeker should be allow to work like the rest of the population . give the huge amount of support that idea have from the public and business , we should at least have the opportunity to scrutinise why the ban remain and the impact that it be have . finally , new clause 37 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , seek to ensure that child bear in the UK who have grow up here and know no other home be not price out of citizenship simply because of their parent ' immigration status at the time of their birth . such young people be part of our community , school and the fabric of our future . they should not be deny their right or go on to face barrier in education , housing , healthcare and across society . they be not " stranger " ; they be our friend and neighbour . some have stoke racist division against migrant — a drum that the far right have continually bang since — and the whole House must oppose that rhetoric . amid rise anti - refugee sentiment , include last year ' s shocking riot , it could not be more urgent or valuable to enable people to feel secure and contribute to their community . I be aghast at some of the amendment table by opposition party , particularly new clause 41 . I wonder how many ruin live those member will consider too many . it be shameful to see the victimisation of people who have come here to find safety . I call Sarah Pochin to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I start by say how delighted I be that my colleague have drag themselves out of the pub to join I for my maiden speech ? I be so proud to be in this place ; I feel so privileged to be here . I hope that I will make a good contribution to the business of this place , with my background of 20 year of public service as a magistrate and a borough councillor . I thank all the voter of Runcorn and Helsby who put their trust in I . it certainly be an historic night — one that I will never forget . we have a recount at about 3 o ' clock in the morning , and the result finally come through at about 6 o ' clock — and there be six vote in it , so I think six be probably my lucky number from now on . we certainly put Runcorn and Helsby on the map . it be the close ever parliamentary by - election result . there be lot of drama and it make for some great headline the next day — well , great headline for we , anyway . I thank and pay tribute to my predecessor , Mike Amesbury . in 2020 he win a ballot to introduce a Bill of his choice . he choose to focus on the cost of live crisis by limit the cost of school uniform . his Bill gather cross - party support and become the Education ( Guidance about Cost of School Uniforms ) Act 2021 . I , too , will focus on the cost of living . during the campaign , it be raise with I endlessly on the doorstep by voter who feel let down by this government — voter who have lose their winter fuel allowance , who have have their disability benefit slash or who have see their energy cost go through the roof when they be promise that their bill would go down . it be very important that I make my maiden speech today . there be a few raise eyebrow , as I have be here less than a week , but the Bill be important because it be so relevant to what I believe in . there be over 900 illegal immigrant — that we know about — live in Runcorn . some 400 of they be house in an asylum hotel — the Daresbury Park hotel , which be , incidentally , to be shut down by the Government during the election campaign , but be , of course , still open — while the remain 500 or so be house in house of multiple occupancy in the community . the recent Government announcement encourage private landlord to give up their property to house illegal immigrant in order to get a five - year guarantee of rent and all the property maintenance pay for will only make that situation bad . we will end up with british tenant be evict , rent be force up and the already limited housing supply get bad . the problem for community in place such as Runcorn be that those house of multiple occupancy often have 15 to 20 young man in they . family live nearby have to put up with antisocial behaviour through the night , drug dealing , people come and go , and noise . I see the CCTV throughout the campaign ; I have hear the story . People be frightened to go out . they will certainly not let their child play out on the pavement when there be such house on their street . we know that these HMOs be breed ground for organise crime gang , whether they be involve in drug or people traffic , or whether they be groom gang — something that be recently downplay by the Leader of the House . tackle sexual violence against woman and the abuse of woman and promote the safety of woman and child be thing I will champion , not deny . I hope that my background in the justice system will give substance to my contribution on subject that be close to my heart , such as the current state of our prison and the daily threat that our brave prison officer — man and woman — face at work . over the last couple of day , there be yet another example of what they be face in the news . I will also be a strong voice against the prosecution of our Northern Ireland veteran , who be so brave on our behalf in the trouble . I will be brave , as they be for we , and I will stand up for what be right and fair . my constituency be form in the boundary change last year by five other constituency lend area to its geography . not only be it new ; it be diverse . it be home to some of the wealthy and to some of the poor . it be home to a beautiful and vibrant market town , Frodsham , and to runcorn old town , which be in decline and in desperate need of investment . it have beautiful , leafy village and housing estate battle drug crime and antisocial behaviour . I have lot of wonderful business in the constituency , range from the chemical industry and the farming industry right through to the science park . there be many challenge ahead and the problem I be go to take on , on behalf of my constituent , include the drastic shortage of housing and the desperate need for investment and regeneration in the old town . the standard of education in the five secondary school be at good average and at bad way below average . somebody need to highlight these issue . we have an incinerator that churn out toxic waste , and an investigation into the health implication be ongoing . and then we have the white elephant that be the net zero project , with carbon capture and storage , and an extensive solar panel farm right across the middle of the constituency . I will challenge the people who have put those policy in place ; I will speak for the people who have for so long lack the representation they deserve . this constituency have huge potential ; it have hard - work people who just want fairness and I will be their voice . to conclude , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) for his vision , his commitment and his conviction , which have bring a new voice to this Chamber . I will stand up for what be right , and I say to all my colleague in this House that they will find I fair , principle and here to serve my constituent . Madam Deputy Speaker , I have be ask many time over the last 10 day whether I be overwhelm by recent event and by be in this place . I be not overwhelmed ; I be deeply respectful of this place , I be humble by this place , but I be ready for this place . it be an honour to follow that eloquent and impassioned maiden speech by our new colleague , the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) . I can tell that we will be hear a lot more from she in this House , and while I be sure that her colleague be pleased to have their number back up to five , I think we can all understand that her lucky number be six . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and the support provide to my office by the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy Project . I would like to make a couple of point about the amendment , draw on the evidence we hear in Committee . the purpose of this legislation be to stop the small boat crossing in the channel . they be too dangerous and too many vulnerable people die in the attempt . they represent a lack of grip on the immigration system , because it should be the Government who decide who come into this country , not people smuggler . the previous approach manifestly fail . that be because the Rwanda scheme mean we could never reduce demand enough . as Dr Walsh from the Migration Observatory tell we in our evidence session , demand for cross the channel be essentially inelastic and we will never get it down enough . deterrence alone therefore will not work . if we want proof , we should consider that of all the asylum seeker in the system , those who go to Rwanda represent one 4 , 000th of 1 % . rather than tackle demand , we should tackle supply . we need to make it hard to get in boat and to organise crossing , and we need to disrupt the supply chain that drive this multimillion - pound industry and seize the phone of those make the crossing . on new clause 3 on safe route , let we be clear that there be absolutely a wide case to be make for safe route and there be a national obligation to help where we can , but let we also be clear that safe route already exist at significant scale . some 500 , 000 people seek sanctuary in the UK through they over the last few year . we must be clear , too , that give the vast number of people in the asylum system just now , no one can argue that Britain do not have enough refugee . most importantly , safe route fall into the same logical trap as the Rwanda scheme , in that they aim to reduce demand rather than to tackle supply . Rwanda say , " Don ' t come because there ' s a tiny chance you ' ll be send to Rwanda instead . " safe route say , " Don ' t come because there ' s a tiny chance you can come through safe route instead . " the purpose of the Bill be to reduce channel crossing . there be good argument for safe route on many level , but have work on migration policy for 15 year before come here , I know we have to recognise that they will not play a role in reduce this cross - channel travel . the Government ' s repeal of the vile and illegal Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 and large part of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be welcome , but they must do more to repeal the underlie legal framework , which continue to undermine the UK ' s ability to uphold the rule of law and human right . the Illegal Migration Act simply do not belong on the statute book , and my preference would be to scrap the lot of it . my amendment 35 at least seek to restore judicial oversight of decision about detention . the Immigration Law Practitioners ' Association point out that without my amendment 35 , a software engineer who overstay her visa could be detain for long than a suspect terrorist , and with far less judicial oversight . turn to my new clause 38 , I be disappointed that the Government have not use the Bill to repeal the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , when Labour rightly oppose that legislation in its entirety on its Second Reading . that Act mark the UK ' s move away from uphold the 1951 refugee convention and instead deny the right to territorial asylum , yet this Labour Government have choose to leave the Act on the statute book , untouched by this Bill . my new clause 38 focus on undo the provision that penalise and criminalise people who make unsafe journey to the UK to seek sanctuary . it scrap the part that create an unfair two - tier asylum system with differential treatment for different group of people — a proposal so unworkable that the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) have to pause it when in government . crucially , it scrap the law that criminalise people arrive in the UK without permission or the right paperwork with a penalty of up to four year in prison . this law be clearly contrary to article 31 . 1 of the 1951 refugee convention , which provide immunity from penalty in recognition of the fact that refugee be often compel to arrive without appropriate document in order to access their human right under that convention . lastly , my new clause 38 would scrap section 30 to 38 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , which seek to — I will put it charitably — poorly reinterpret the refugee convention . I wish to highlight the fact that the Government be leave on the statute book measure that unjustly penalise and criminalise refugee for arrive irregularly when there be no safe and manage route to travel here to claim asylum for the vast majority of people who might need and be eligible to do so . in the word of Warsan Shire : " no one put their child in a boat unless the water be safe than the land " . this Government be clearly focus on appear tough on immigration , and to do so they have bring in some of the previous Government ' s cruel policy and introduce some of their own — Order . I call Bell Ribeiro - Addy . I want to speak in support of new clause 37 , which stand in my name , but I will begin by address the political theatre that often surround immigration . politician constantly speak about immigration , spin fear and suspicion , and then conveniently report back that immigration be a top concern for voter , when it be not . recent poll show clearly that immigration do not feature in the top concern among those who be consider vote labour but do not . instead , people be talk about tangible issue , such as the winter fuel allowance , the rise cost of living and the desperate need to fund our public service . rather than deal with those issue , we choose to stoke division with sentiment about " stranger " . I want to be crystal clear : immigration be not the crisis . what we be face be the crisis in how we treat people , value right and understand our responsibility to one another . the focus seem always to be on small boat crossing , but irregular migration — people arrive by boat — account for just a fraction of the nearly 1 million people who come to this country last year . I do not call then " illegal migrant " as that term be morally degrading and asylum seeker have the right under international law to seek refuge . if we want to resolve these issue , we need to start with safe and legal route . regular migration have soar since 2021 , under the Tories and post Brexit , because the Government ' s own policy create this situation . the point - base immigration system be always design to encourage people to come here — and they have . so the issue be not migration itself , but the exploitative business model behind it . policy around immigration be never about fairness but always seem to come back to profit . that same logic — profit over people — govern our asylum system . the company contract to run immigration detention — household name such as Serco , Mitie and Mears — be all profiteer and make million off the back of vulnerable people . we have see report of detainee be abuse and be keep in unsanitary condition , yet those company continue to get million of pound in contract . speak of protection , let I turn to child , specifically child bear here in the UK or who have live here since they be young , who have call no other place home , yet be still deny british citizenship . I have table new clause 37 to address that . these child be not migrant , but they be treat like second - class citizen , often not know they be not officially citizen until they apply to university or for a job . do that sound familiar ? they suddenly find themselves lock out of everything through no fault of their own . it be a quiet scandal , just like the Windrush scandal — they have live here their whole life , only to be tell that they have no right to be here . we promise " never again " and say that we would learn lesson , but in 2025 we be charge British - bear child £ 1 , 214 to register as citizen , when we know the administrative cost be only £ 372 . we be charge those child for something that be their right . up to 215 , 000 child be legally entitle to citizenship but they be undocumented because of the exploitative fee . the fee waiver be not work , so we be call for fairness . at the very least , if a child be entitle to citizenship , they should be able to claim it without be price out . no child should be punish for where their parent be bear or how much money they have . I rise to speak to the new clause and amendment in my name . I be go to congratulate the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) on her maiden speech , but she seem to have join her colleague in the bar . I be go to tell she that she have achieve something quite notable : she have be able to force this Government to bring forward this immigration White Paper , as both the main party try to outdo and triangulate the hon . member from Reform , who be no long in their place . may I just say to hon . member on the Conservative and Labour Benches that they be more or less waste my time : why would voter go for one of the diet version when they could have the full - fat version in the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) ? I have speak at every stage of this Bill , include four interminable week and countless hour on the Public Bill Committee — [ interruption . ] I wish I could say otherwise . of course , for the Minister it be a positive experience , but for I it be nothing other than thoroughly frustrating , depress and dispiriting . I have be appal at the emerge casual and callous way that the most wretched people in the world be now portray and demonise , and I fear what this House now have in store for they . I despair at the lack of empathy and humanity that have be show to some of the most desperate people in the world . I abhor the perception that essential human right be consider a hinderance , to be dispense with in the pursuit of even more cruelty and disregard . I think the House forget that these be real people flee conflict , oppression and unimaginable horror . I rise to speak in support of my new clause 3 , on safe route , because I believe that be the only way we should deal with those people . what we have do just now be create a monopoly and exclusive right for the gang that operate the Channel crossing . there be no other way for asylum seeker to assert their asylum right . when they have the opportunity to assert those right , most of they have they grant , which make a nonsense of the fact that asylum seeker be be term " illegal immigrant . " instead of smash the gang , the Government be actually give they new opportunity and make their business model even more lucrative . I pay tribute to all the agency and support organisation that help I with these amendment and the amendment I table in Committee . those group be now in some sort of legal jeopardy because of some of the clause in the Bill . their opportunity to support the most desperate people in the world through advocacy and look after their right be now at risk because of some of the measure in the Bill . we be head towards a particularly dark place in some of the consideration on these issue . I be impress by some of the Labour speaker when they talk about immigration and say that we have to be very careful how we handle this debate as we go forward , but I be really feart just now . I listen to what the Prime Minister say this morning and be horrify by some of the language he conjure up , which we think we have lose decade ago . this be the type of territory that we venture into with very great sensitively , and I be afraid that the Prime Minister lose that this afternoon . I hope that we have the opportunity to press these new clause and amendment , secure the safe route and ensure that we do everything we can for asylum seeker . thank you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker . " People start die . People be scream . it be very painful when someone be die inside the water . the way they die — they can not breathe . . . it be very difficult . I never think I would experience such a thing … it be a harrowing experience I do not want to remember . I be hold on to what remain of the boat and people be scream . it be something I will not forget . " this be the witness testimony of Mohammed Omar when he speak at the Cranston inquiry , which be investigate the UK ' s bad small boat disaster . on 27 November 2021 , it be believe that 31 people lose their life . Mohammed say that he be tell that 33 people would be aboard the dinghy , but more be add , include child . those gang member whose sole focus be on the billion of pound that their horrific trade generate , who overload boat that be not fit to go into the ocean , who treat human life as have no value , willing to put life at risk for huge profit must experience the full force of the law . this Bill give Border Command the power to pursue , arrest and prosecute those people . break and destroy the gang be critical to bring an end to the small boat crossing . Mohammed ' s witness evidence underline how important it be to achieve that . the Bill not only give the power and authority to work with our international partner to track down and break up the gang , with the power to seize and interrogate mobile phone and laptop to collect datum and evidence , but the new amendment will introduce enhanced illegal working check , put a stop to those delivery driver bring meal or parcel to our doorstep who can not speak a word of English , potentially use id that have be borrow or purchase from legitimate employee . I welcome the raid on the business , such as the nail bar , barber and restaurant employ illegal worker , potentially in slave labour condition . in January there be 131 raid in my area of the midland , with 106 arrest . the amendment will mean that those arrest will now face fine of up to £ 60 , 000 per worker and prison sentence of up to five year . the French have say that people want to come to the UK because it be all too easy to be sweep into the black economy and work illegally . the heavy disincentive of fine and prison sentence have the power to put a brake on the demand for the illegal trafficking of people . I welcome this Bill . as I say in February , " crack on with the job , give we a running commentary of every success , publicise the return flight and the jailing of criminal , clear up the Conservatives ' mess , secure our border , close down the use of hotel and stop the small boat . " — [ Official Report , 10 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 124 . ] today be the next step forward . I rise to speak in support of new clause 14 . this government come into power on the promise to " smash the gang " and cut immigration number — what an empty , cynical slogan that turn out to be . the exact opposite happen : the gang be embolden and the Government lose control of illegal immigration , which be up 31 % since the election and 35 % in this year . after the failure to smash the gang and the poor showing at the recent election , the Government ' s response be another gimmick : the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . it be hollow , its five core principle be a word salad of empty phrase and it be a rehash of old idea and contradiction . it lack a deterrent . in fact , the big mistake that this Prime Minister have make , in a strong field of contender , be cancel the Rwanda scheme . even the National Crime Agency describe that as a deterrent , and it be already start to work ; we see those come in by dinghy from France start to head to Ireland and other country . without Rwanda or another third country , there be no way to remove any illegal immigrant who destroy their document as they come to this country . as a result of cancel that deterrent , we have see illegal migration soar . some of the level of illegal immigration will come down , but that will be as a result of what the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , do with his restriction to stop dependant enter the country and the bilateral deal he make , such as the one with Albania to deport criminal . this government say that they will now create a new legal framework for immigration judge to prevent illegal migrant and foreign criminal avoid deportation by exploit article 8 of the echr . that will never happen under the human right lawyer who lead the Labour party , or a Labour party that champion the ECHR and the Human Rights Act . the reality be that until this Government get ahead of the curve , get a spine , take the UK out of the echr , repeal the Human Rights Act — a law that Labour introduce to cement the ECHR in british law — reinstate the Rwanda scheme and radically clamp down on housing and benefit , I be afraid that immigrant will continue to come to the UK . the british people expect security and prosperity , not platitude and broken promise . we in this House must act accordingly and vote in favour of new clause 14 , which would disapply the Human Rights Act . vulnerable people be die in the channel and in our asylum system in record , horrify number . today , yet another person tragically die try to reach our shore . the exact figure be murky , but from what we know , last year be the deadly year ever for people seek asylum in the UK . the UN estimate that 82 people , include at least 14 child , lose their life in the channel , but french frontline charity believe the fatality rate to be significantly high . meanwhile , freedom of information request reveal that 51 people die in asylum accommodation , and among they be a 15 - year - old boy and two baby . People be drown while try to reach safety . once they arrive , they be die by suicide , from infectious disease and from unknown cause in poverty , in low - quality accommodation or on the street , like the teenage victim of modern slavery who take his own life while terrify of deportation , the father of one who die of diphtheria after be hold in a Government processing centre , or the seven - year - old girl who be crush to death on an overcrowded boat . in several case of death in asylum accommodation , there have be allege lapse of safeguard code . these death be utterly unacceptable and often preventable , yet the Home Office keep no official record . as such , we do not know how many life be be lose . the Government rightly want to reduce death in the channel , and the starting point must be to know the number . my new clause 1 , which be support by 24 mp , be a call for truth and transparency . it would mandate that the Home Office record and report statistic and information on the death of people in our asylum system who be mean to be in its care and people at our border . it would provide opportunity for scrutiny and accountability , because no matter where they come from or how they get here , people deserve dignity . we must not allow they to die in silence , ignore and uncare for , so I urge the Government to act . we need a new approach to refugee and asylum . we need to stand up to Conservative Members scapegoate desperate people for the problem that our community be experience after 14 year of conservative austerity , instead of parrot they . I be glad that this Bill repeal the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 and much of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , but we need to reverse all the dehumanising policy implement by the last government , not just the one cover by this Bill . we need to expand safe and legal route to the UK , include resettlement , family reunion and pilot a refugee visa to travel , as propose in a report by the Public and Commercial Services Union and Care4Calais , the launch of which I be privileged to host here in Parliament . no long must people seek asylum fall through the crack of a system that do not provide they with the care and safety that they deserve . let we ensure that every person who lose their life be count , remember and mourn and that we do everything in our power to prevent anyone else from die because of this inhumane system . may I speak briefly to new clause 39 , in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) ? he be unfortunately not able to present this argument himself , because he be attend a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe , and he ask if I would speak briefly in support of his new clause . I hope that I can encourage the Minister to expand a bit on whether the Government think that this be rather a good way of ensure that the bad abuse in the court system be avoid . essentially , my right hon . friend ' s new clause would give precedence to the non - refoulement arrangement in the refugee convention and in the UN convention against torture , but it would not allow the european convention on human right and the interpretation of the European Court of Human Rights to extend beyond those provision . that be very important , because fundamental to english law be the principle of equity . if people come here with clean hand and seek justice and our support , we should be keen to encourage that , but if people come here and abuse our hospitality or have already commit offence , we should get rid of they quickly . that be not very easy at the moment , because of how the court interpret the european convention on human right . my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) refer to new clause 14 . the problem I have with it be that it do not go far enough . it talk about get rid of or disapplye the Human Rights Act , but of only disapplye the interim arrangement of the European Court of Human Rights . we need to go much far than that , and I be slightly reluctant to be enthusiastic about the new clause . one provision that I be very enthusiastic about , and which I be disappointed that the official opposition will not call a Division on , be new clause 15 . the shadow Home Secretary ' s explanatory statement say : " this new clause would prevent a foreign national who be convict of any offence from remain in the UK , as well as anyone who have be charge with " — do my hon . friend recognise that there be an issue of democracy here ? successive Governments and Ministers have say that they want to toughen up the regime , but that be undermine by activist judge . that be a further reason to support the new clause that he mention . I agree with my right hon . friend . if one want a current example , there be a headline in the Daily Telegraph on 1 May that read , " migrant spare prison after punch female officer " . [ interruption . ] this be a fact — it be a court case in Poole in Dorset , not far from my constituency . a small - boat migrant who repeatedly punch two female police officer be spare jail . that be completely laughable , and on that I have the support of David Sidwick , Dorset ' s excellent police and crime commissioner , who be try to take this issue far . when people who have come here seek our help and assistance abuse the system , and we indulge their presence , that bring the whole system into disrepute . I hope that the Minister will get much tough on this issue , but sadly , the Bill seem to weaken the offence regime under immigration law , rather than strengthen it , as we should . I be pleased to speak in support of the Bill , because for far too long , criminal smuggling gang have operate with virtual impunity , ruthlessly exploit man , woman and child and put their life at risk for profit . that be why I be encourage to see a Government be honest with I and my constituent . no more gimmick . no more waste £ 700 million on unworkable and fantastical Rwanda scheme . they be just give our law enforcement body the tool and resource that they need to intervene early and act fast . the Bill contain new offence target those who supply or handle boat part use in crossing , with up to 14 year behind bar for those find guilty . it allow for the seizing of electronic device , such as phone and laptop , to help gather evidence and disrupt operation , and create a new interim serious crime prevention order , which allow immediate restriction on travel , communication and finance , so that we can stop criminal in their track before they escalate their activity . I be particularly pleased about the £ 150 million go into the new Border Security Command , and further National Crime Agency officer work across Europe — include , importantly , through Europol . it be not rocket science , but the National Crime Agency have say that these measure will give it what it need to disrupt smuggling network and dismantle their business model . just as importantly , the Bill will put a stop to the conservative party ' s attempt to make we turn our back on the world . the fantastic trade deal that we conclude just last week with India and the US be vital recognition that put Britain back on the global stage and tackle the gang that be smuggle people into our country can go hand in hand . crime do not respect border , so it be quite right that we be prioritise strong international partner . I particularly welcome the new joint action plan with Germany and , through the Calais Group and the G7 , the alignment of effort across Europe to shut down smuggling group , seize key equipment and bring gang leader to justice . new clause 6 and 7 set reasonable timeline for first - tier tribunal appeal determination . those be important clarification , give the damage do to trust in our immigration system by interminable proceeding and delay . those new clause will cut the asylum backlog and drastically save money for taxpayer . new clause 8 will , I hope , improve our approach to person convict of serious sexual offence , which my constituent have grave concern about . it be right that foreign national who commit sex offence should not be able to claim refugee status in the UK . the UK be a welcoming and open nation , and we need a sensible , fair and caring immigration system to support our key industry . I be pleased that the Government be make move towards that , and I will be pleased to support the Bill tonight . I want to go through the difference between what the Government tell the newspaper , and the reality of this Bill and the amendment that have be table . minister say that they would change indefinite leave to remain , but the White Paper proposal today be weak , and the Home Secretary admit that it may not apply to immigrant who be already here . it be therefore no wonder that the Government refuse to support new clause 11 , which would do the job for they . the visa crackdown on the nationality blame for asylum cost — Pakistanis , Nigerians and Sri Lankans , we be tell — and the promise to kick out all foreign criminal be both headline , but no credible policy on those issue be present to we today . the Government promise action against the ten of thousand of people , or maybe more , who be work illegally for delivery company as a result of abuse substitution clause . it be welcome that substitution clause be be add to section 15 to 24 of the Immigration , Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 , but what will be the operational reality ? there be perhaps 1 million illegal immigrant in Britain , but only 366 fine be impose for illegal working in the last quarter of last year . at least 100 , 000 people be trade identity online to work as substitute . before the local election , the headline say , " foreign sex offender will be ban from claim asylum in the UK " . I suppose that be what Government new clause 8 do , but what use be that new clause if minister do not give themselves legal power to deport foreign sex offender ? the Government be whip their mps to vote against new clause 14 , which disapplie the Human Rights Act and interim measure issue by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg . I be afraid that today be just another stage in the cycle of political deceit . I should say that in the past , my party have be as culpable as the Labour party — we must be honest about that . immigration policy must be about not just who come here , but who we decide must leave . People who be here on time - limit visa must be tell to go ; people who refuse to accept our culture and way of life must leave ; and people who have break the law , and those who take out more than they put in must be throw out . we will need to ensure vast number of removal and deportation in the year ahead , and we need to remove the legal impediment in domestic law , and in international convention draft in another age , that stop we secure the border and save our country . we must also be tough about who we allow to come here . we can not afford to import more of the world ' s hatred , nor to allow foreign conflict to be fight out on our street . we must accept that not every migrant be the same , and not every culture be equal ; one in 50 Albanians in Britain be in jail , one in three pakistani and Bangladeshi heritage adult be economically inactive , and 72 % of Somalis live in social housing . we be a million mile away from do what be necessary , and despite the rhetoric , this Bill take we even far backwards . look past the word , and this country will see what this government be do . I rise to speak in support of the Bill and the Government ' s new clause , as this issue matter deeply . when we talk about immigration and border control , we be not just talk about policy make in Westminster , but about real - life consequence for those seek refuge . this Bill be a major step forward in build an immigration system that be both firm and fair , both robust and compassionate . since the general election , this Government have already take bold action . over 24 , 000 people with no legal right to remain have be process — the most in year . in just one month , enforcement team raid over 800 business , arrest more than 600 people for allow illegal working practice — a 73 % increase on the same period last year . however , this be not just about number ; it be about confront a criminal underworld that prey on human suffering . People - smuggle gang be profit from desperation . they be put life at risk in the channel and undermine the value of fairness and order that we all believe in . with this Bill , and with new clause 6 to 8 , we can now go even far . we be introduce real criminal penalty for those who supply boat part — up to 14 year in prison . we be make it a crime to endanger life at sea during illegal crossing , modernise how we process asylum claim by use artificial intelligence to speed up decision , ban sex offender from ever claim refugee status in this country , and put tough restriction on bogus immigration lawyer . let I be clear : be tough do not mean be cruel . true compassion mean create a system that work for everyone . that include the people who be come here , because there be nothing humane about place vulnerable people from around the world in the most deprived community in the country , with poor housing , overstretch service , and no opportunity to rebuild their life . in Leigh , we have see that at first hand . this do not relate to the Bill , but I need to mention it : Serco have acquire many property in my constituency and in the Greater Manchester area generally . our town have lose its industry . we have few job opportunity and a housing crisis of our own , and yet we be be ask to carry a disproportionate burden simply because our home be cheap . that be not compassion ; it be neglect . People be be house in fail condition and no one benefit — not the asylum seeker and not our local resident . this government be deliver real result — result that we be see for the first time . this be what we need to see . we need to see a fair system that protect live , uphold the law and restore order without lose sight of basic human dignity . I should start by mention that I be the vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on refugee . I rise to speak in favour of new clause 21 , which would allow asylum seeker the right to work after three month of wait for a decision . I back this measure for three key reason : common sense , economic rationale and human dignity . in my constituency , I work closely with a charity call Big Leaf , an outstanding organisation that support more than 200 displace young people . through it , I meet Mohi — a young woman who , on arrive in the UK , live in a hotel for 20 consecutive month . her husband have nursing experience , and Mohi herself dream of become a nurse . she tell I , " I want to give back to the country that have give I safety . we be here to be useful . we don ' t want to rely on benefit . we just want a normal life . " Big Leaf , her peer , her mentor , her colleague and her employer all recognise what Mohi could become . everyone see her potential , except the system . today she work as a healthcare assistant , and this September she be excited about begin training at the University of Surrey to become a nurse . new clause 21 would give Mohi and so many like she a chance to contribute , grow and begin their life in this country with dignity . Britain lag behind our international friend . country like Canada and Sweden allow asylum seeker to work within week . the Refugee Council and the Lift the Ban coalition estimate that the change propose in new clause 21 could generate over £ 100 million a year through tax revenue and saving . give that this be a country that pride itself on be sensible , I have to question why , for 14 year , the Conservative Government refuse to see sense on this issue . we have the opportunity to bring change , improve life , and unlock so much potential , both human and economic . my hon . friend have give three fantastic reason that my hon . friend have give for lift the ban , but such a move be also popular with the public : 80 % of people poll back the right for asylum seeker to work . moreover , 45 % of asylum seeker would be classify as critical worker . do my hon . friend agree that there be , in fact , four fantastic reason why the Government should lift the ban ? I absolutely agree . I urge colleague on both side of the House to vote for new 21 for all four reason that , between we , my hon . friend and I have state . so late in the day , with so much say , I be go to take a direction that differ from that take by some of my colleague . I want to talk about what border security mean for we as a country . the playwright James Graham say that our country be only the story that we tell about ourselves . with the Conservatives , we be tell a story of hopelessness , despair and scapegoating . People be leave to believe that we should be frighten by the challenge we face , frighten by our inability to meet they , and frighten by the setback that we face and what they say about who we be and where we be go . that be why it be so important for this Labour Government to be correct that narrative . get a grip on our border , close asylum hotel , bring the asylum bill down : those be the basic that people expect . they be what make people feel confident , not frightened — secure , not susceptible to those on the Opposition Benches who would peddle empty promise and , ultimately , let the british people down . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no . for I , border security sit alongside fix pothole , tackle graffiti and fly - tipping , and stop e - scooter and e - bike speeding . it be obviously more complicated — for one thing , it involve a great deal of international negotiation — but border security be security . it be vital for people ' s safety and pride . it underpin so much . if people can not rely on the basic , they can not begin to enjoy everything else that life have to offer . if people can not see pledge be keep , promise be deliver and thing be improve where they live , they will not just lose trust ; they will succumb to hopelessness . we must not allow the spirit of our people to break . we must get the basic right , and with the Bill we will do that . we will secure our border with this Bill and these amendment . we will have new power on seize electronic device , a new law to protect life at sea , a new statutory border security command , tough action on foreign national sex offender , and the ending of asylum hotel that cost eye - watering sum . it be in our national interest to get our border back under control against criminal smuggler gang . in order to understand the politic of where we be , I have be look back at old debate , and Conservative Members may enjoy hear what I be about to say . with our policy and politic on border security , as with much else , I feel that we could benefit from listen to a question that be put by the first Earl of Stockton in his maiden speech in the other place in 1985 . he say : " should we just slowly and majestically sink … like a great ship — or shall we make a new determined and united effort … let we do the latter and then historian of the future will not describe … the decline and fall of Britain but … the beginning of a new and glorious renaissance . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 23 January 1985 ; Vol . 459 , c . 254 . ] as the Member of Parliament for Bournemouth East , I want to work with all in this place who share the former conservative Prime Minister ' s moderation and determination to have a united effort to bring about a well Britain . that involve fix the basic , such as border security . after all , it would be an absurdity for small boat to sink a great ship . the trafficking gang that profit from the most vulnerable refugee do not care if the people on those boat live or die . it be obvious that we all want to see the end of this horrendous crime , but those who travel be not bad people ; they be desperate . it be understandable that community who see group of mainly young man be economically inactive will be frustrate and angry , but asylum seeker be not responsible for people not get a doctor ' s appointment — it be the people who traffic they . when I be the leader of Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council , I back the Lift the Ban coalition and meet an inspire young man from Cameroon who have arrive here legitimately on a student visa . while he be here , his village be torch and his uncle kill . he could not return home , so he claim asylum from where he be in the midland . he be immediately relocate to a hotel in Bournemouth and refuse the ability to work — something that he have do legitimately right up to that point . let he work would allow he to contribute to our community , instead of be a great drain on it . I will speak to the Liberal Democrats ' new clause 24 and 33 , which relate to our work with international partner . as a member of the armed force parliamentary scheme , I recently learn more about the United Nations convention on the law of the sea . article 99 cover the prohibition of the transport of slave , but it do not cover human trafficking . around the world , our international partnership be be hamstring as a result , and I urge the Minister to look at how we could use interpol as a route towards develop UNCLOS far . finally , I will speak against new clause 16 , which would increase the minimum income for a spousal visa to £ 38 , 000 . this would mean that the average police officer , research scientist or nurse outside London — in place such as Mid Dorset and North Poole — would not be able to get a visa for their spouse . I be pleased that the Government pause the proposal and leave the threshold at £ 29 , 000 , as I be concerned that we could see a brain drain among many british professional who choose to leave the UK for their partner ' home country , where they will be welcome . I want to speak about the armed force personnel I have meet both in the constituency and through the afps , particularly those come from Commonwealth country . they have answer our call to fight for our country , but they be force to leave their spouse behind , as the low threshold provide for they only apply after an extended period of service . push that threshold up to £ 38 , 000 would take reunification out of their reach , too . the current threshold ensure that family who can support themselves can stay together , and I urge the Government to leave it where it be . we can all agree that immigration must be manage . the public rightly expect a fair , firm and functional system , but control can not come at the cost of compassion , so let I be clear : immigrant can not be view through the lens of fear , and parliamentarian on all side must choose their word carefully . we be responsible for ensure that our rhetoric do not incite attack , fear and division , or even lead to violence . it be not enough to say that we denounce hate ; we must also refrain from language that fuel it . term like " island of stranger " simply do not help . too often , we hear suggestion — either explicitly or implicitly — that immigrant be to blame for everything that be wrong in our country . let we be honest with the public : it be not immigrant who have pollute our river or our sea with sewage ; it be not immigrant who set sky - high rail fare while slash route ; it be not immigrant who have hollow out our NHS , cut GP service or closed library ; and it be not immigrant who have oversee 14 year of economic stagnation , rise rent and grow inequality . there be some aspect of this Bill that I can support — abolish the ridiculous Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 be one — but there be more shortcoming , especially in relation to the lack of help for victim of human trafficking , which be why I rise to support some of the amendment . I call on member across the House to support new clause 27 , which would ensure that proper age assessment be conduct by train and independent social worker , and not through rush visual judgment or flawed and impersonal scientific test . furthermore , in the shadow of our immigration debate , child be be exploit . they be the victim of a modern slave trade run by smuggler and trafficker who prey on desperation . child be coerce into role that put their life and the life of other at risk . these be not isolate case . over 4 , 000 unaccompanie child claim asylum in the UK last year alone . the system must recognise the unique vulnerability of child and treat they as such , not as suspect and not as statistic , but as they be : child . although the Government ' s intention to address the asylum appeal backlog be laudable , proposal such as new clause 6 and 7 to impose arbitrary deadline of 24 week , without sufficient resource or legal safeguard , be not the answer . justice rush be justice deny . finally , by take on the narrative of those on the right wing , by mimic their talking point and rhetoric , we be not neutralise the threat of extremism , but feed it . we will only push Reform UK and other even far to the right , embolden they to say thing that we have make appear acceptable . I ask the Government : when will they stand their ground , choose principle over polling and remember that leadership mean bring people together , not chase after the loud voice in the room ? let we reject the politic of scapegoate , and lead with integrity , fact and humanity . our country deserve nothing less . I would like to focus on new clause 21 . we can all see that the asylum system be break and expensive , and the horror of people arrive in a desperate state on small boat be cause division and anger across our country . however , turn to a populist party that throw out soundbite that appeal to many but fall apart at the first hint of real scrutiny be not the answer . how do we address this problem ? first , we need to dial down the volume and the divisiveness in this debate , and to talk about these people as human , not number . we need to open up safe and legal route for people genuinely flee war , persecution and conflict . we need to assess their asylum claim quickly and efficiently , and then help they into the workforce so they can start earn money , support themselves , contribute to the economy and , just as importantly , integrate properly into our society . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) say on Radio 4 this weekend that his party ' s chairman , the child of immigrant from Sri Lanka , be intensely patriotic , say : " the whole point of come to a country be that you adopt it " . that be exactly what asylum seeker will do when give refuge by a country that offer they safety . we have see it since time begin . indeed , many in this House be the child of immigrant who have give back enthusiastically to the country that welcome they . the asylum backlog stand at 91 , 000 at the end of 2024 . while they wait , asylum seeker be trap in limbo , unable to work or rebuild their life and force to depend on Government fund . this benefit no one . the Liberal Democrats ' new clause 21 would lift the restriction on asylum seeker engage in employment , which would help to manage the cost of asylum , benefit the UK economy and help asylum seeker to integrate . evidence from the Refugee Council show that , in the medium to long term , refugee in the UK make a net positive fiscal contribution . initially , they rely more on public service , but within five to 10 year their tax contribution exceed their cost to the state . after five year , 60 % to 70 % be employ , approach the national average for employment rate . a study by the Centre for Entrepreneurs show that one in seven UK company be found by a migrant : 17 % of non - UK national have launch business compare with just 10 % of UK - bear individual . the reality be that we have an age population , with more people than ever aged over 85 who depend on service . we have few people pay tax , work and provide service , and more who have great need , particularly in health and care . the chief operation officer of CareYourWay franchising tell I : " we be both baffle and deeply concerned by the government ' s decision to revoke the visa route for social care worker . it be harrowing to witness such a critical sector continuously overlook … this change will , without doubt , have a tangible and far - reach impact … for many , this decision will not only reduce capacity — it may very well close door . " the Liberal Democrats be push for more safe and legal route for refugee , which we know will be crucial to help stop these dangerous channel crossing — order . I call Iqbal Mohamed . the UK immigration system be in shamble . that be no secret after the debacle of the last Government , with the propose Rwanda scheme , the controversial refugee barge , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 to stop boat crossing , and the hostile environment , which make immigration enforcement the responsibility of nurse , doctor , teacher and public service worker . I think we all agree that any step towards fix this mess be a step in the right direction , and the Bill deserve credit for repeal certain measure propose by the previous Government . however , it need to go far and it still have substantial issue : worryingly , it criminalise vulnerable family flee hardship and it fail to adequately protect victim of trafficking . let we talk about the most pressing failure of the Bill : the complete lack of a clear , humane strategy for safe and legal route . the truth be that if we do not give people flee war , persecution or traffic a safe way out , they will find a dangerous one . we have see the consequence : family risk everything , child arrive on our shore and an asylum system buckle under the weight of its own inhumanity . yet the Bill , in its current state , offer no plan and no route for how the UK will open legal door , instead of force people to scale fence . that be why I support new clause 3 , which would require the Government to publish a long overdue strategy on how it will establish safe route into the UK . we need safe route not because it be morally right , but because it work . move on to death of asylum seeker , more than 10 people have already die this year try to reach the UK on small boat . last year , over 80 people die try to reach our shore . that be why I also support new clause 1 to shine a light on the human cost of this broken system . right now , the Government do not have a system to ensure that a full record of death be publish . People die in asylum accommodation . People die while wait for decision . also , over 450 child go miss between 2021 and 2024 . in 2024 , over 100 be still unaccounted for . immigration and asylum legislation be not just about fix system ; it have a profound impact on people ' s life . therefore , it be crucial that the provision in the Bill be compassionate and prioritise the need of vulnerable community and the very people who suffer the most within these system . we have no more speaker , so we will go straight to the Minister . forgive I , I think we have another person bob , but they no long seem to be in the Chamber . Minister Eagle , you get the lucky extra few minute for the winding - up . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to rise after what have be a very full debate , with people have to fit in quite complex point in short amount of time . I congratulate everybody on the point they make . I will try , as much as possible , to deal with some of they in the time I have leave . I thank all those on the Labour Benches who make contribution : my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) , my hon . friend the Members for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) , for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) , for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) , for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) and for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) . Liberal Democrat Members concentrate on safe and legal route , and the ability to work . I be worried that the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) have have such a difficult time in Committee . I think we be have quite a reasonable time , but he be extremely downbeat about it . I must try more on another occasion . I welcome the maiden speech from the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) , which we all listen to in traditional silence . I congratulate she on it , welcome she to the House and wonder if Reform be practise the principle of one in , one out — or perhaps one out , one in . it be a pleasure to welcome she to the House . the shadow Home Secretary produce a flurry of amendment and new clause demand that we do a whole range of thing that not only do he not do when he have the chance as a Home Office Minister , but his party do not do when they have the chance over 14 year . I have to keep say this , but we inherit a system in the most incredibly difficult mess , with huge backlog . he say we have make it bad , but by begin to process claim , that by definition create a backlog of those who have be refuse . by try to get the system work again , we get a backlog of appeal , because people who be refuse asylum generally appeal , and the backlog — as he know from his time in the Home Office — therefore reappear in the appeal system . that be why we have the new clause to attempt to get a timeline for deal with those case . I will concentrate on some of the thing that I know there will be vote on tonight . first , I will deal with safe and legal route and new clause 3 . our approach be to resettle refugee identify by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees who would benefit most from resettlement to the UK . alongside that , we have bespoke route to sanctuary for those from Ukraine , Afghanistan and Hong Kong . it be important that safe and legal route be sustainable , well managed and in line with the UK ' s capacity to welcome , accommodate and integrate refugee . part of the difficulty we have at the moment be the legacy we receive from the Conservatives of a huge quadrupling of net migration and the issue with have to assimilate all those people in the huge , unplanned way in which they deliver that . new clause 37 be table by my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) . we recognise she campaign on this issue over the past five year . we also recognise that there have be an unfair burden for some family with right to citizenship under the system as it be . I can confirm that the work reference on page 76 of the White Paper — it be right at the end — will look at tackle the financial barrier that she highlight in her speech . I urge she to work with we on how we move forward and to not press her new clause . the opposition table new clause 14 . let I be clear that this Government be fully commit to the protection of human right at home and abroad . as the Prime Minister have make clear , the United Kingdom be unequivocally commit to the european convention on human right , and it be worth note that many of the legal obligation provide for in the european convention be also find in other international agreement to which the UK be a party . will the Minister give way ? very quickly , because I have a lot of point and not much time . the Minister have just set out once again , as the Prime Minister do early today , her steadfast commitment to the ECHR . do she not accept that that mean that the legislation be not watertight and that those who have commit serious criminality will continue to be able to stay in the United Kingdom , because of the echr ? new clause 8 will deny refugee status to those who commit sexual offence . we also have the work be announce on narrow article 8 , which will allow Parliament to give more direction to judge about how the rule ought to be interpret . the immigration rule reflect the requirement of the ECHR generally , include the qualified nature of article 8 , set requirement that properly balance the individual right to respect for family and private life with the public interest in safeguard the economic wellbeing of the UK by control immigration . the Minister mention the provision to prevent certain sex offender from claim asylum . while that be a welcome step , what will happen in practice be that the sex offender will simply make a claim under article 3 of the ECHR instead . I have see dozen and dozen of case like that , and that be precisely why we need to disapply the Human Rights Act 1998 from all immigration matter . otherwise , there will just be a huge loophole , as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) point out . if we disapplie the Human Rights Act , people would just go to the ECHR anyway , and a lot of these case would end up in Strasbourg , which would take even long . disapplye the Human Rights Act would also mean that other country that we have to work and collaborate with to deal with cross - border people smuggling would not work with we . the Conservatives have many huge row with people and go around the world make it look as though they do not believe in the rule of law . this government do believe in the rule of law and we will carry on uphold the rule of law ; we regard that as an important part of the value system we have in this country . on new clause 18 and the cap on non - visitor visa , as always the Conservatives talk a good talk now that they be safely in opposition , have not deliver when they be in government . they promise time after time to reduce net migration down to the ten of thousand — they do it in their manifesto and in the many different manifestation of conservative government that we see plough through the House , especially in the past four year — and what do they do ? they quadruple net migration . we do not need a cap ; we need to get migration down , fundamentally low than it be now , to make the system fair and effective . in order to do that , we have publish a White Paper today and introduce further measure in this Bill . we will come back to this issue to ensure that we can deliver — unlike the conservative party . I thank the Minister for her mention of my new clause and her commitment to end the financial burden on young child and their family who have a right to citizenship . what further work will be do to consult campaign such as Citizens UK , Lambeth Citizens and the Project for the Registration of Children as british Citizens that have be work on this issue ? I know that the White Paper cover a range of issue , but I want to understand what consultation will be do with those organisation to ensure that we get to where we need to be : a situation where child be not price out of citizenship . the Minister for Citizenship and Migration , my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) , have just make it clear to I from the Front Bench that she be very happy to consult and meet all those group . we want people to contribute to the consultation so that we get this right . I hope that in the light of that , my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill will not press new clause 37 . I want to deal with the right to work in the brief time I have leave , because those on the Lib Dem Benches talk about that in particular . it be an issue of balance : we know at the moment that , if someone ' s asylum claim be delay for 12 month , they have the right to work in particular shortage area . our way of deal with this be to get the system to work more quickly , so that we do not have people languish for many year in limbo . that be what we be aim to do . we be worried that if the right to work come in after three month , it would be too much of a pull factor and get around some of the issue with work visa . we have to have a system that people apply to properly , rather than one that they can get around by come in by irregular route . that be the issue . I appreciate what Lib Dem Members be try to achieve ; we have a slight difference of approach on that , but clearly we will carry on have these debate . question put and agree to . new clause 5 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 10 February ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 6 - timeframe for determination of appeal bring by appellant receive accommodation support " after section 86 of the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 insert — ' 86A timeframe for determination of appeal under section 82 ( 1 ) ( a ) where appellant be receive accommodation support ( 1 ) this section apply on an appeal under section 82 ( 1 ) ( a ) bring by a person to whom , at the time the appeal be institute , accommodation be be provide under section 95 or 98 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 . ( 2 ) the Tribunal must , except where the Tribunal consider that it be not reasonably practicable to do so , determine the appeal and give notice of its determination to the party before the end of the period of 24 week begin with the day after that on which the appeal be institute . ( 3 ) but subsection ( 2 ) do not apply or , as the case may be , cease to apply , if the appeal must be bring , or must be continue , from outside the United Kingdom . ' " — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this new clause provide that where a person receive accommodation support appeal against a decision to refuse their protection claim , the first - tier Tribunal must determine the appeal within 24 week unless it be not reasonably practicable to do so . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 7 - timeframe for determination of certain appeal bring by non - detain appellant liable to deportation " ( 1 ) after section 86a of the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ( as insert by section ( timeframe for determination of appeal bring by appellant receive accommodation support ) ) insert — ' 86b timeframe for determination of appeal bring by certain non - detain appellant liable to deportation ( 1 ) this section apply on an appeal under section 82 ( 1 ) where the appeal be bring by a person fall within subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) a person fall within this subsection if , at the time the appeal mention in subsection ( 1 ) be institute , the person — ( a ) be not detain ( whether under any provision of the Immigration act or otherwise ) , ( b ) have be convict of an offence ( whether in or outside the United Kingdom ) , and ( c ) be liable to deportation under section 3 ( 5 ) ( a ) of the Immigration Act 1971 ( Secretary of State deeming deportation conducive to public good ) . ( 3 ) the Tribunal must , except where the Tribunal consider that it be not reasonably practicable to do so , determine the appeal and give notice of its determination to the party before the end of the period of 24 week begin with the day after that on which the appeal be institute . ( 4 ) but subsection ( 3 ) do not apply or , as the case may be , cease to apply , if the appeal must be bring , or must be continue , from outside the United Kingdom . " ( 2 ) in Schedule 2 to the Immigration ( Citizens ' Rights Appeals ) ( EU Exit ) regulation 2020 ( s . I . 2020 / 61 ) ( application of the 2002 Act to appeal to the Tribunal ) — ( a ) in paragraph 1 , after paragraph ( b ) insert — " ( ba ) section 86b ; " ; ( b ) in paragraph 3 , after sub - paragraph ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5A ) section 86b have effect as if for subsection ( 4 ) there be substitute — ' ( 4 ) but subsection ( 3 ) do not apply or , as the case may be , cease to apply , if the appeal be bring , or be continue , from outside the United Kingdom . ' " ( 3 ) in Schedule 2 to the Immigration ( European Economic Area ) regulation 2016 ( s . I . 2016 / 1052 ) ( appeal to the first - tier Tribunal ) , as it continue to have effect follow its revocation , after paragraph 1 insert — " 1A Section 86b of the 2002 Act ( timeframe for determination of appeal bring by certain non - detain appellant liable to deportation ) apply in relation to an appeal under these Regulations to the first - tier Tribunal as it apply in relation to an appeal under section 82 ( 1 ) of the 2002 Act but as if for subsection ( 4 ) there be substitute — ' ( 4 ) but subsection ( 3 ) do not apply or , as the case may be , cease to apply , if the appeal be bring , or be continue , from outside the United Kingdom . " ' " — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this new clause provide that in certain case where a non - detain person who have be convict of an offence and who be liable to deportation bring an appeal , the first - tier Tribunal must determine the appeal within 24 week unless it be not reasonably practicable to do so . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 8 - Refugee Convention : particularly serious crime " ( 1 ) section 72 of the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ( construction and application of article 33 ( 2 ) of Refugee Convention ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — ' ( 5za ) a person be to be presume to have be convict by a final judgment of a particularly serious crime if — ( a ) the person be convict in the United Kingdom of an offence list in Schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , and ( b ) the person be not , by virtue of the conviction , a person fall within subsection ( 2 ) . ( 5ZB ) a person be to be presume to have be convict by a final judgment of a particularly serious crime if — ( a ) the person be convict outside the United Kingdom of an offence , ( b ) the act constitute the offence would have constitute an offence list in Schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 have it be do in any part of the United Kingdom , and ( c ) the person be not , by virtue of the conviction , a person fall within subsection ( 3 ) . ' ( 3 ) after subsection ( 5A ) insert — ' ( 5b ) a person presume to have be convict of a particularly serious crime by virtue of subsection ( 5za ) or ( 5ZB ) be to be presume to constitute a danger to the community of the United Kingdom . ' ( 4 ) in subsection ( 6 ) , for ' subsection ( 5A ) ' substitute ' subsection ( 5za ) or ( 5zb ) that a person have be convict by a final judgment of a particularly serious crime or under subsection ( 5A ) or ( 5b ) ' . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 7 ) , for ' ( 5a ) ' substitute ' ( 5za ) , ( 5zb ) , ( 5A ) or ( 5b ) ' . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 8 ) , after ' ( 5a ) ' insert ' or ( 5b ) ' . ( 7 ) in subsection ( 9 ) ( b ) , for ' ( 5a ) ' substitute ' ( 5za ) , ( 5zb ) , ( 5A ) or ( 5b ) ' . ( 8 ) in subsection ( 10 ) ( b ) , for ' ( 5a ) ' substitute ' ( 5za ) , ( 5zb ) , ( 5A ) or ( 5b ) ' . " — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this new clause provide that where a person have be convict of certain sexual offence there be to be a rebuttable presumption that the person have be convict of a particularly serious crime and constitute a danger to the community of the United Kingdom for the purpose of the Refugee Convention . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 3 - duty to publish a strategy on safe and manage route " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish a strategy on the Government ' s effort to establish additional safe and legal route for person to seek asylum in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must be lay before Parliament . " — ( Pete Wishart . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish and lie before Parliament a strategy on the development of safe and manage route for people to seek asylum in the UK . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Olivia Blake Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Tim Farron will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Seamus Logan James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard John Martin McDonnell Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Brendan o ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Caroline Voaden Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Kirsty Blackman Ben Lake Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Nigel Farage Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin James McMurdock Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Richard Tice Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Keir Mather Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 90 , Noes 318 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 14 - Borders legislation : Human Rights Act " ( 1 ) this section apply to any provision make by or by virtue of this Act , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , the Immigration Acts , and any legislation relate to immigration , deportation , or asylum , include the Immigration Rules within the meaning of the Immigration Act 1971 . ( 2 ) the legislation identify in subsection ( 1 ) , include in relation to the enforcement of immigration policy , deportation , the granting , removal , revocation or alteration of immigration status , or asylum , or other entitlement , must be read and give effect to disregard the Human Rights Act 1998 . ( 3 ) in the Asylum and Immigration Appeals Act 1993 , omit section 2 . ( 4 ) in the Immigration Act 1971 — ( a ) in section 8aa — ( i ) in subsection ( 2 ) , omit " subject to subsection ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) " ; and ( ii ) omit subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) ( ii ) and subsection ( 3 ) to ( 6 ) ; ( b ) in section 8b , omit subsection ( 5A ) . ( 5 ) in section 84 of the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after " must " insert " not " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after " must " insert " not " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for " section 6 " substitute " any section " ; and ( d ) in subsection ( 3 ) after " must " insert " not " . ( 6 ) where the European Court of Human Rights indicate an interim measure relate to the exercise of any function under the legislation identify in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) it be only for a Minister of the Crown to decide whether the United Kingdom will comply with the interim measure under this section ; and ( b ) an immigration officer or court or tribunal must not have regard to the interim measure . " . — ( Chris Philp . ) this new clause would disapply the Human Rights Act and interim measure of the European Court of Human Rights in relation to this Bill and to other legislation about border , asylum and immigration . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie French Mark Garnier Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Katie Lam Richard Holden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Keir Mather Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 98 , Noes 402 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 18 - Cap on the number of entrant " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must make regulation specify the total maximum number of person who may enter the United Kingdom annually across all non - visitor visa route , with such regulation subject to approval by both Houses . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation also specify a maximum number of entrant for individual visa route , subject to the overall total . ( 3 ) no visa may be issue in excess of the total maximum number specify in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 4 ) any visa issue in excess of the number specify in subsection ( 1 ) must be revoke . " — ( Chris Philp . ) this new clause would provide a mechanism for a bind annual cap on the number of nonvisitor visa issue by the UK . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie French Mark Garnier Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Katie Lam Richard Holden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell David Burton - Sampson Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Keir Mather Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 94 , Noes 315 . question accordingly negative . it have be bring to my attention that not all the Division bell be work . we be try to rectify that as soon as possible . I urge colleague to remain close to the Chamber and the estate , and to keep their eye on the annunciator . New Clause 21 - removal of restriction on asylum seeker engage in employment " the Secretary of State must , within three month of the date on which this Act be pass , lie before Parliament a statement of change in the rule ( the ' immigration rule ' ) under section 3 ( 2 ) of the Immigration Act 1971 ( general provision for regulation and control ) to make provision for asylum applicant to take up employment whilst their application be be determine , if it have be over three month since the application be make , with no decision make . " — ( Lisa Smart . ) this new clause would remove the restriction on work for asylum seeker , if it have be over three month since they apply . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Tim Farron will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Ben Lake Graham Leadbitter Seamus Logan James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard John Martin McDonnell Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Brendan o ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Luke Taylor Caroline Voaden Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Tom Morrison Bobby Dean Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Victoria Atkins Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Harriett Baldwin Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Steve Barclay Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Hilary Benn Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Polly Billington Matt Bishop Bob Blackman Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sarah Bool Jade Botterill Andrew Bowie Sureena Brackenridge Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Suella Braverman Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Alex Burghart David Burton - Sampson Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Luke Charters Christopher Chope Feryal Clark James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper John Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Harriet Cross Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Gareth Davies Jonathan davy mim davy Paul davy Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Charlie Dewhirst Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Iain Duncan Smith Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Luke Evans Hamish Falconer Nigel Farage Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Peter Fortune Paul Foster Ashley Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Mark Francois Louie French James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Mark Garnier Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Helen Grant Lilian Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes John Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Terry Jermy Dr Caroline Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Danny Kruger Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Jerome Mayhew Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin James McMurdock Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Ben Obese - Jecty Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Priti Patel Matthew Patrick Rebecca Paul Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Chris Philp David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Shivani Raja Andrew Ranger Jack Rankin Mike Reader David Reed Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Joe Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Greg Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Euan Stainbank Blake Stephenson Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Bradley Thomas Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Richard Tice Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Nick Timothy Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White James Wild David Williams Gavin Williamson Steve Witherden Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Keir Mather Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 87 , Noes 404 . question accordingly negative . clause 20 - Powers of authorise officer to search for relevant article Amendments make : 6 , page 14 , line 33 , leave out " superintendent " and insert " inspector " . this amendment change the rank of the officer who may authorise a constable to exercise a power to search under this clause . amendment 7 , page 14 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) if an inspector give an authorisation under subsection ( 7 ) , the inspector must , as soon as it be practicable to do so , cause an officer of at least the rank of superintendent to be inform . " — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this amendment provide that where an inspector authorise a constable to exercise a power to search under this clause the inspector must cause an officer of at least the rank of superintendent to be inform as soon as be practicable . clause 21 - Powers to seize and retain relevant article Amendments make : 8 , page 15 , line 3 , leave out " superintendent " and insert " inspector " . this amendment change the rank of the officer who may authorise a constable to exercise a power of seizure under this clause . amendment 9 , page 15 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) if an inspector give an authorisation under subsection ( 2 ) , the inspector must , as soon as it be practicable to do so , cause an officer of at least the rank of superintendent to be inform . " — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this amendment provide that where an inspector authorise a constable to exercise a power of seizure under this clause the inspector must cause an officer of at least the rank of superintendent to be inform as soon as be practicable . clause 23 - power to access , copy and use information store on relevant article Amendments make : 10 , page 17 , line 41 , leave out " superintendent " and insert " inspector " . this amendment change the rank of the officer who may authorise a constable to exercise a power to access , examine , copy , retain or use information under this clause . amendment 11 , page 17 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) if an inspector give an authorisation under subsection ( 2 ) , the inspector must , as soon as it be practicable to do so , cause an officer of at least the rank of superintendent to be inform . " — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this amendment provide that where an inspector authorise a constable to exercise a power to access , examine , copy , retain or use information under this clause the inspector must cause an officer of at least the rank of superintendent to be inform as soon as be practicable . clause 25 - extension of power to other person Amendment make : 12 , page 18 , line 24 , leave out " 22 " and insert " 23 " . — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this amendment correct an incorrect cross - reference ; the effect be that the Secretary of State may by regulation provide that a reference to an authorised officer in clause 23 ( rather than clause 22 ) include a person of a description specify in the regulation . clause 40 - immigration adviser and immigration service provider Amendment make : 13 , page 32 , line 21 , at end insert " and certain related amendment of other provision " . — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this amendment be consequential on the amendment of Schedule 1 make by amendment 24 , 27 and 29 . clause 48 - Insert Clause 48 Heading Amendments make : 14 , page 43 , line 7 , leave out " within subsection ( 2 ) " and insert " make by a court in England and Wales " . this amendment and Amendments 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 and 19 remove provision enable the imposition of electronic monitoring requirement by a court in Scotland or Northern Ireland when make an SCPO which be terrorism - relate . amendment 15 , page 43 , leave out line 11 to 14 . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 14 . amendment 16 , page 45 , line 2 , leave out " the court " and insert " , in the case of an order make by a court in England and Wales , the High Court in England and Wales " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 14 , 15 , 17 , 18 and 19 remove provision enable the imposition of electronic monitoring requirement by a court in Scotland or Northern Ireland when make an SCPO which be terrorism - relate . amendment 17 , page 45 , line 6 , leave out " the court " and insert " , in the case of an order make by a court in England and Wales , the Crown Court in England and Wales " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 14 , 15 , 16 , 18 and 19 remove provision enable the imposition of electronic monitoring requirement by a court in Northern Ireland when make an SCPO which be terrorism - relate . amendment 18 , page 45 , line 10 , leave out " the court " and insert " , in the case of an order make by a court in England and Wales , the Crown Court in England and Wales " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 and 19 remove provision enable the imposition of electronic monitoring requirement by a court in Northern Ireland when make an SCPO which be terrorism - relate . amendment 19 , page 45 , leave out line 12 to 21 . — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendments 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 and 18 remove provision enable electronic monitoring requirement to be impose by a court in Scotland when make an SCPO which be terrorism - relate . clause 57 - Extent Amendment make : 20 , page 60 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( ca ) section 63 ( 3 ) of the Immigration , Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 , " . — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this amendment be consequential on NC5 . clause 58 - Commencement Amendments make : 21 , page 60 , line 32 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and insert — " ( b ) paragraph 2 to 4 of Schedule 1 ( and section 40 and paragraph 1 of that schedule so far as relate to those paragraph ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on the amendment of Schedule 1 make by amendment 24 to 29 . amendment 22 , page 60 , line 36 , after " regulation " insert " or an order " . — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 28 and enable an order under the power insert by that amendment to be make on or after the day on which the Bill be pass . schedule 1 - IMMIGRATION ADVISERS and IMMIGRATION SERVICE provider Amendments make : 23 , page 62 , line 5 , leave out paragraph 1 and insert — " 1 the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 be amend as follow . " this amendment be consequential on the amendment of Schedule 1 make by amendment 24 , 27 and 29 . amendment 24 , page 62 , line 6 , at end insert — " power to amend definition of " relevant matter " 1A in section 82 ( interpretation of Part 5 ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the definition of " relevant matter " in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 4 ) may make consequential amendment to this section . " 1b ( 1 ) in section 166 ( 5 ) ( regulation subject to the affirmative procedure ) , after paragraph ( c ) insert — " ( cza ) section 82 ( 4 ) , " . ( 2 ) if sub - paragraph ( 1 ) come into force before the come into force of paragraph 24 ( 2 ) of Schedule 11 to the Immigration Act 2016 , sub - paragraph ( 1 ) have effect as if after " procedure ) , " there be insert " omit the " or " at the end of paragraph ( c ) and " . " this amendment enable the definition of " relevant matter " in section 82 ( 1 ) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 to be amend by regulation . amendment 25 , page 62 , line 6 at end insert — " suspension etc of registration 1c in section 84 ( 3 ) ( b ) ( effect of suspension of registration on person ' s registration ) , for " 4b ( 5 ) " substitute " 4C ( 1 ) " . 1d ( 1 ) section 87 ( appeal to first - tier Tribunal ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 3A ) insert — " ( 3aa ) subsection ( 3A ) do not apply in relation to a decision to cancel a person ' s registration under paragraph 4A ( e ) of Schedule 6 if condition A or B be meet . ( 3ab ) Condition A be that the Commissioner notify the person to whom the decision relate ( " the relevant person " ) in write that — ( a ) the Commissioner consider that the relevant person be act or have act in a way which — ( i ) create a risk of serious harm to person seek immigration advice or immigration service , or ( ii ) create a risk of serious harm to the system of immigration control in the United Kingdom , and ( b ) accordingly , the decision to cancel the relevant person ' s registration have effect from the time specify in the notice and while the period mention in subsection ( 3A ) be run . ( 3ac ) Condition B be that the person ' s registration have be cancel wholly or partly on the basis that the person have be convict of — ( a ) an offence involve dishonesty or deception , or ( b ) an indictable offence . " ( 3 ) after subsection ( 3c ) insert — " ( 3d ) Tribunal Procedure Rules may not permit a direction of the kind mention in subsection ( 3b ) in relation to a decision to cancel a person ' s registration under paragraph 4A ( e ) of Schedule 6 where the person meet condition b in subsection ( 3ac ) . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 4 ) , for the word from " paragraph 4b " to the end of the subsection substitute " paragraph 4aa and 4b of Schedule 6 ( appeal against suspension by the Commissioner ) . " ( 5 ) after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) for the purpose of this section , conduct create a risk of serious harm to the system of immigration control in the United Kingdom if , in particular , it involve — ( a ) abuse of a procedure operate in the United Kingdom in connection with immigration or asylum ( include any appellate or other judicial procedure ) , or ( b ) advice to any person to do something which would amount to such an abuse . " 1E ( 1 ) schedule 6 ( registration ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) before paragraph 4b ( but after the italic head before that paragraph ) insert — " 4aa " ( 1 ) the Commissioner may , by notice in write to a registered person , suspend the person ' s registration from the time specify in the notice if — ( a ) the Commissioner have reason to suspect that the registered person be act or have act in a way which — ( i ) create a risk of serious harm to person seek immigration advice or immigration service , or ( ii ) create a risk of serious harm to the system of immigration control in the United Kingdom , and ( b ) accordingly , the Commissioner consider it be necessary to suspend the person ' s registration . ( 2 ) the Commissioner — ( a ) may , by notice in write to a person whose registration have be suspend under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , cancel the suspension of the person ' s registration , and ( b ) must do so if the Commissioner be no long satisfied that paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) of that sub - paragraph apply in relation to that person . ( 3 ) if a person ' s registration have be suspend under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , the Commissioner must consider whether the suspension should be cancel — ( a ) before the end of the period of 7 work day begin with the work day after the day on which the Commissioner issue the notice of the suspension , and ( b ) before the end of each subsequent period of 7 working day . ( 4 ) a person whose registration be suspend under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) may appeal to the first - tier Tribunal against the suspension . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this paragraph , conduct create a risk of serious harm to the system of immigration control in the United Kingdom if , in particular , it involve — ( a ) abuse of a procedure operate in the United Kingdom in connection with immigration or asylum ( include any appellate or other judicial procedure ) , or ( b ) advice to any person to do something which would amount to such an abuse . ( 6 ) in this paragraph " working day " mean a day other than a Saturday , a Sunday , Christmas Day , Good Friday or a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 in any part of the United Kingdom . " ( 3 ) in paragraph 4b — ( a ) for sub - paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) the Commissioner may , by notice in write to a registered person , suspend the person ' s registration from the time specify in the notice if the person be charge with — ( a ) an offence involve dishonesty or deception , ( b ) an indictable offence , or ( c ) an offence under section 25 or 26 ( 1 ) ( d ) or ( g ) of the 1971 Act . ( 1A ) the Commissioner may , by notice in write to a person whose registration have be suspend under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , cancel the suspension of the person ' s registration . ( 1b ) a person whose registration be suspend under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) may appeal to the first - tier Tribunal against the suspension . " , ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , in the opening word , for " the suspension " substitute " otherwise , the suspension under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) " , and ( c ) omit sub - paragraph ( 5 ) to ( 7 ) . ( 4 ) after paragraph 4b insert — " 4c " ( 1 ) a person whose registration be suspend under paragraph 4aa or 4b be not to be treat as a register person for the purpose of section 84 ( but be to be treat as a register person for the purpose of the other provision of this Part ) . ( 2 ) where a person ' s registration be suspend under paragraph 4aa or 4b the Commissioner must as soon as reasonably practicable record the suspension in the register . ( 3 ) where a suspension under paragraph 4aa or 4B cease to have effect ( and the person ' s registration be not cancel ) the Commissioner must as soon as reasonably practicable remove the record of suspension from the register . " " this amendment make provision for the cancellation of a person ' s registration as a provider of immigration advice or immigration service to have immediate effect in certain circumstance as well as for the suspension of a person ' s registration . amendment 26 , page 62 , line 6 , at end insert — " provision of immigration advice or immigration service under supervision 1f in section 84 ( provision of immigration service ) , after subsection ( 3b ) insert — " ( 3c ) a person ' s entitlement to provide immigration advice or immigration service by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) ( e ) be subject to section 84a and regulation under section 84b . " 1 g after section 84 insert — " 84a Limitations on act under supervision : sanction under this part ( 1 ) a person ( " p " ) be not entitle to provide immigration advice or immigration service by virtue of section 84 ( 2 ) ( e ) ( person act under supervision ) if — ( a ) p be disqualify under paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 ( conviction of certain immigration offence ) for registration under paragraph 2 of that schedule or continue registration under paragraph 3 of that schedule , ( b ) p ' s registration be suspend under paragraph 4aa of Schedule 6 ( suspension on ground of risk of serious harm ) , or ( c ) p ' s registration be suspend under paragraph 4b of Schedule 6 ( suspension of person charge with particular offence ) . ( 2 ) a person ( " p " ) be not entitle to provide immigration advice or immigration service by virtue of section 84 ( 2 ) ( e ) during the relevant period if — ( a ) p ' s registration have be cancel under paragraph 4A ( e ) of Schedule 6 ( cancellation for lack of competence etc ) , and ( b ) the cancellation take effect before the end of the period mention in subsection ( 3A ) of section 87 because condition A in subsection ( 3ab ) of that section ( risk of serious harm ) be meet in relation to p . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) " the relevant period " mean the period of 12 month begin with the time specify in the notice under section 87 ( 3ab ) as the time at which the decision to cancel p ' s registration have effect . ( 4 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply if — ( a ) the Commissioner decide to register p or to continue p ' s registration , or ( b ) the cancellation of p ' s registration be overturn on appeal ( unless the cancellation be subsequently reinstate as a result of a further appeal ) . ( 5 ) a person ( " p " ) be not entitle to provide immigration advice or immigration service by virtue of section 84 ( 2 ) ( e ) if — ( a ) p ' s registration have be cancel under paragraph 4A ( e ) of Schedule 6 , and ( b ) the cancellation take effect before the end of the period mention in subsection ( 3A ) of section 87 because condition b in subsection ( 3ac ) of that section ( conviction of particular offence ) be meet in relation to p . ( 6 ) subsection ( 5 ) do not apply if — ( a ) p ' s conviction of the offence mention in section 87 ( 3ac ) be quash or set aside , ( b ) the Commissioner decide to register p or to continue p ' s registration , or ( c ) the cancellation of p ' s registration be overturn on appeal ( unless the cancellation be subsequently reinstate as a result of a further appeal ) . ( 7 ) a person ( " p " ) other than a person to whom subsection ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) or ( 5 ) apply be not entitle to provide immigration advice or immigration service by virtue of section 84 ( 2 ) ( e ) if — ( a ) subsection ( 8 ) apply to p when p enter into the arrangement for supervision , and ( b ) p do not inform the person by whom p be to be supervise of that fact before enter into that arrangement . ( 8 ) this subsection apply to p if — ( a ) p be or have previously be subject to a direction by the first - tier Tribunal under section 89 ( 2A ) ( a ) ( direction in connection with registration ) , ( b ) p be or have previously be subject to a direction by the first - tier Tribunal under section 89 ( 8 ) ( a ) ( restriction on provision of immigration advice or immigration service ) , ( c ) p have previously be subject to a direction by the first - tier Tribunal under section 89 ( 8 ) ( b ) ( suspension from provision of immigration advice or immigration service ) , ( d ) p be or have previously be subject to an order make by a disciplinary body under section 90 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( restriction on provision of immigration advice or immigration service ) , ( e ) p have previously be subject to an order make by a disciplinary body under section 90 ( 1 ) ( b ) ( suspension from provision of immigration advice or immigration service ) , ( f ) P have at any time be give a penalty notice under section 92c ( power to impose monetary penalty ) , ( g ) p ' s registration have at any time be cancel under paragraph 6 ( 3 ) ( a ) of Schedule 5 ( failure to assist with investigation ) , ( h ) p ' s registration have at any time be cancel under paragraph 10a ( 7 ) or ( 8 ) of Schedule 5 ( failure to allow access to premise etc ) , ( i ) p ' s registration have at any time be cancel under paragraph 4A ( d ) or ( e ) of Schedule 6 ( cancellation follow direction by first - tier Tribunal or for lack of competence etc ) , ( j ) p ' s registration have previously be suspend under paragraph 4aa of Schedule 6 , or ( k ) p ' s registration have previously be suspend under paragraph 4b of Schedule 6 . ( 9 ) subsection ( 7 ) do not apply if , before the time mention in subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) , the direction , order , penalty , cancellation or suspension refer to in subsection ( 8 ) — ( a ) have be reverse , cancel or quash , ( b ) have be overturn on appeal ( and have not subsequently be reinstate as a result of a further appeal ) , or ( c ) in the case of suspension under paragraph 4b of Schedule 6 , have cease to have effect by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) of that paragraph . 84b limitation on act under supervision : other sanction ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide that a person be not entitle to provide immigration advice or immigration service by virtue of section 84 ( 2 ) ( e ) where — ( a ) the person be subject to a professional sanction of a kind specify in the regulation , or ( b ) in the circumstance specify in the regulation , the person be disqualify or suspend from practice as a member of a relevant profession . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide that a person ( " p " ) be not entitle to provide immigration advice or immigration service by virtue of section 84 ( 2 ) ( e ) where — ( a ) when p enter into the arrangement for supervision — ( i ) p be or have previously be subject to a professional sanction of a kind specify in the regulation , or ( ii ) in the circumstance specify in the regulation , p be or have previously be disqualify or suspend from practice as a member of a relevant profession , and ( b ) p do not inform the person by whom p be to be supervise of that fact before enter into the arrangement for supervision . ( 3 ) in this section — " professional sanction " mean an order , direction or decision which be impose , give or make by , or other action which be take by — ( a ) a designate professional body , ( b ) a designate qualifying regulator , ( c ) a relevant disciplinary body , ( d ) an Inn of Court , or ( e ) a judge , court or tribunal in the exercise of a function in relation to the provision of legal service ; " relevant disciplinary body " mean a body establish wholly or partly for the purpose of exercise disciplinary function in relation to — ( a ) member of a designate professional body , or ( b ) person regulate by a designate qualifying regulator ; " relevant profession " mean a profession which be regulate by a designate professional body or a designate qualifying regulator . " " this amendment make provision about a person ' s entitlement to provide immigration advice or immigration service under supervision where the person be or have be subject to a sanction impose by the Immigration Services Commissioner or in the person ' s capacity as a legal professional . Amendment 27 , page 62 , line 6 , at end insert — " monetary penalty 1h after section 92b insert — " 92C power to impose monetary penalty ( 1 ) the Commissioner may give a relevant person a penalty notice if the Commissioner be satisfied on the balance of probability that the relevant person — ( a ) have fail to comply with — ( i ) the duty impose on the person by paragraph 3 ( 4 ) of Schedule 5 ( duty to comply with Code of Standards ) or paragraph 6 ( 2 ) of that schedule ( duty to assist with investigation of complaint ) , or ( ii ) any other requirement impose on the person by or under this Part , or ( b ) have , without reasonable excuse , obstruct the Commissioner in the exercise of the Commissioner ' s function under paragraph 4A of Schedule 5 ( power to carry out inspection ) . ( 2 ) in this section " relevant person " , in relation to the giving of a penalty notice , mean a person who be a registered person at the time of the act or omission in relation to which the notice be give . ( 3 ) a penalty notice be a notice require the person to whom it be give to pay to the Commissioner — ( a ) an amount specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State ( a " fix penalty notice " ) , or ( b ) an amount specify by the Commissioner in the notice ( a " variable penalty notice " ) . ( 4 ) the Commissioner may give a person who be not a relevant person a penalty notice if the Commissioner be satisfied on the balance of probability that the person have fail to comply with the duty impose on the person by paragraph 6 ( 2 ) of Schedule 5 . ( 5 ) the Commissioner may give an unqualified person a penalty notice if the Commissioner be satisfied on the balance of probability that the person have commit an offence under section 91 or 92b . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 5 ) " unqualified person " , in relation to the giving of a penalty notice , mean a person who be not a qualified person at the time of the act or omission in relation to which the notice be give . ( 7 ) an amount specify in regulation under subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) , and the amount specify in a variable penalty notice , must not exceed — ( a ) in the case of a penalty impose on a person under subsection ( 5 ) in relation to the commission of an offence under section 92b , the maximum amount of the fine that could be impose on the person on summary conviction for the offence ; ( b ) in any other case , £ 15 , 000 . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the amount for the time be specify in subsection ( 7 ) ( b ) . ( 9 ) in this section and section 92d to 92h — " penalty notice " mean a notice under this section ; " fix penalty notice " and " variable penalty notice " have the meaning give by subsection ( 3 ) . 92d Procedure for impose penalty ( 1 ) before give a penalty notice to a person the Commissioner must notify the person of the Commissioner ' s intention to do so . ( 2 ) the notice under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) specify the propose amount of the penalty , ( b ) specify the Commissioner ' s reason for propose to impose the penalty , ( c ) specify the period during which the person may make representation about the proposal ( " the specified period " ) , and ( d ) specify the way in which those representation may be make . ( 3 ) the specified period must not be less than 28 day begin with the date on which the notice under subsection ( 1 ) be give . ( 4 ) the Commissioner must have regard to any representation make by a person during the specify period in decide — ( a ) whether to give a penalty notice to the person , and ( b ) if the Commissioner decide to give a variable penalty notice to the person , the amount of the penalty specify in the notice . ( 5 ) where the Commissioner give a penalty notice to a person , the notice must specify — ( a ) the amount of the penalty , and ( b ) the period within which the penalty must be pay ( " the payment period " ) . ( 6 ) the penalty notice must also contain information as to — ( a ) the ground for the penalty , ( b ) how payment may be make , ( c ) the detail of any early payment discount or late payment penalty include by virtue of subsection ( 7 ) , ( d ) the consequence of non - payment , ( e ) right of appeal , and ( f ) the period within which an appeal may be make . ( 7 ) the penalty notice may include provision for the amount payable under the notice — ( a ) to reduce in the event of early payment ; ( b ) to increase in the event of payment after the end of the payment period . 92e appeal against penalty ( 1 ) a person to whom a penalty notice have be give may appeal to the first - tier Tribunal against — ( a ) the decision to give the person a penalty notice ; ( b ) where the notice give be a variable penalty notice , the amount of the penalty specify in the notice . ( 2 ) on an appeal under this section , the Tribunal may — ( a ) cancel the penalty , ( b ) confirm the requirement to pay the penalty , or ( c ) in the case of an appeal under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , amend the amount of the penalty . ( 3 ) the requirement to pay the penalty under the notice be suspend at any time when — ( a ) an appeal under this section could be bring by the person in respect of the penalty , or ( b ) such an appeal be pende . ( 4 ) but subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) do not prevent the requirement to pay take effect if the person notify the Commissioner that the person do not intend to appeal . ( 5 ) no further amount be payable as a result of provision include in the penalty notice by virtue of section 92d ( 7 ) ( b ) in respect of the period during which the requirement to pay be suspend . ( 6 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) an appeal be pende during the period — ( a ) start when the appeal be bring , and ( b ) end when the appeal be finally determined , abandon or withdraw . 92f Enforcement of penalty notice ( 1 ) this section apply if a person who be liable to pay an amount to the Commissioner under a penalty notice have not pay the whole or any part of that amount when it be require to be pay . ( 2 ) in England and Wales the Commissioner may recover the unpaid amount on the order of the county court as if it be payable under an order of that court . ( 3 ) in Scotland payment of the unpaid amount may be enforce in the same manner as an extract register decree arbitral bear a warrant for execution issue by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland . ( 4 ) in Northern Ireland the Commissioner may recover the unpaid amount on the order of a county court as if it be payable under an order of that court . 92 g Guidance about penalty ( 1 ) the Commissioner must prepare and publish guidance about the Commissioner ' s use of the power to give a penalty notice . ( 2 ) the guidance must , in particular , include information as to — ( a ) the circumstance in which the Commissioner be likely to give — ( i ) a fixed penalty notice , or ( ii ) a variable penalty notice , and ( b ) in the case of a variable penalty notice , the matter to which the Commissioner have regard in determine the amount of the penalty . ( 3 ) the Commissioner — ( a ) must from time to time review the guidance , and ( b ) may revise and republish the guidance follow a review . ( 4 ) before prepare or revise guidance under this section , the Commissioner must consult such person as the Commissioner consider appropriate . 92h penalty impose in relation to commission of offence : conviction a person who be require to pay a penalty under a penalty notice give under section 92c ( 5 ) ( penalty in respect of offence under section 91 or 92b ) may not at any time be convict of an offence under section 91 or , as the case may be , 92b in respect of the act or omission in relation to which the notice be give . " 1i ( 1 ) in section 166 ( 5 ) ( regulation subject to the affirmative procedure ) , after paragraph ( cza ) ( as insert by paragraph 1b ) insert — " ( czb ) section 92c ( 3 ) ( a ) or ( 8 ) , " . ( 2 ) if sub - paragraph ( 1 ) come into force before the come into force of paragraph 24 ( 2 ) of Schedule 11 to the Immigration Act 2016 , paragraph 24 ( 2 ) of that Schedule have effect on its come into force as if for " for the " or " at the end of paragraph ( c ) substitute " there be substitute " after paragraph ( czb ) insert " . 1j ( 1 ) schedule 5 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 6 ( 3 ) ( investigation under the complaint scheme ) , after paragraph ( c ) ( and on a new line insert ) — " ( see also section 92c ( which confer a power to impose monetary penalty for breach the duty impose by paragraph 6 ( 2 ) ) . ) " ( 3 ) in paragraph 9 ( 1 ) ( determination of complaint ) , after paragraph ( f ) ( as insert by paragraph 1 M ( 4 ) ) ( and on a new line ) insert — " ( see also section 92c ( which confer a power to impose monetary penalty for breach the code or otherwise fail to comply with requirement impose by or under this part ) . ) " " this amendment confer power on the Immigration Services Commissioner to impose monetary penalty on person provide immigration advice or immigration service . amendment 28 , page 62 , line 6 , at end insert — " fee 1 k after section 93 insert — " 93a fee ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by order provide for fee to be charge by the Commissioner in respect of the exercise of the Commissioner ' s function . ( 2 ) the order may , in particular , make provision — ( a ) for fee ( include fee for the taking of examination ) to be charge in respect of the assessment of a person ' s competence to provide immigration advice or immigration service ; ( b ) for fee to be charge in respect of a person ' s registration or continued registration ; ( c ) for fee to be charge for make change to a person ' s registration ; ( d ) for fee to be charge in respect of the provision by the Commissioner of training for person provide or seek to provide immigration advice or immigration service ; ( e ) for fee to be charge in respect of the provision by the Commissioner of , or of access to , training or other material for such person ; ( f ) for fee to be charge in respect of the provision by the Commissioner of event for such person ; ( g ) for fee to be charge in respect of the accreditation by the Commissioner of training or event for such person ; ( h ) for fee to be charge in respect of the provision of advice by the Commissioner ; ( i ) for , and in connection with , require or authorise the Commissioner to waive all or part of a fee in particular case . ( 3 ) the order may result in the charging of a fee in respect of the exercise of a function in a particular case which exceed the cost of exercise the function in that case . ( 4 ) but in specify the amount of a fee by virtue of subsection ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may have regard only to either or both of the following — ( a ) the cost of exercise the function in question ; ( b ) the cost of exercise any other function of the Commissioner . ( 5 ) reference in subsection ( 4 ) to the cost of exercise a function be to the cost of do so in a particular class of case or in all case . ( 6 ) in this section " registration " mean registration with the Commissioner under section 85 . " 1L in Schedule 6 , for paragraph 5 substitute — " 5 no application under paragraph 1 or 3 be to be entertain by the Commissioner unless it be accompany by the fee specify for that application by order under section 93a ( but this be subject to any waiver in accordance with provision by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) ( i ) of that section ) . " " this amendment replace the current power for the Secretary of State to specify the fee that may be charge by the Immigration Services Commissioner with a new and wide power . amendment 29 , page 62 , line 6 , at end insert — " the complaint scheme 1 M ( 1 ) schedule 5 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 5 ( 3 ) , after paragraph ( b ) insert — " ( ba ) the provision of immigration advice or immigration service by a person in contravention of section 84 , " . ( 3 ) in paragraph 6 — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) for " be the subject of an investigation under the scheme " substitute " fall within sub - paragraph ( 2A ) " ; ( b ) after sub - paragraph ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) a person ( " p " ) fall within this sub - paragraph if — ( a ) p be the subject of an investigation under the scheme , or ( b ) in a case where the person who be the subject of an investigation under the scheme be a relevant body , p — ( i ) be an officer , member or partner of the body when the body provide the immigration advice or immigration service to which the complaint relate , but ( ii ) be no long such an officer , member or partner . ( 2B ) in sub - paragraph ( 2A ) — ( a ) " relevant body " mean a body which be a registered person at the time to which the complaint relate ; ( b ) " officer " , in relation to a body corporate , mean a director , manager , secretary or other similar officer of the body . " ( 4 ) in paragraph 9 — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , after paragraph ( e ) insert — " ( f ) if the person to whom the complaint relate ( " p " ) be not , at the time to which the complaint relate , a relevant authorise person , order p or a relevant body in relation to p — ( i ) to refund all or any part of the fee charge by P or the relevant body for the immigration advice or immigration service to which the complaint relate ; ( ii ) to pay to the person to whom the advice or service be provide an amount specify in the order by way of compensation in respect of any loss , inconvenience or distress suffer by the person as a result of the provision of the advice or service . " ; ( b ) after sub - paragraph ( 1B ) insert — " ( 1C ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( f ) and this sub - paragraph — ( a ) a person be a " relevant authorised person " if — ( i ) the person fall within section 84 ( 2 ) ( b ) , or ( ii ) the person fall within section 84 ( 2 ) ( e ) because the person act on behalf of , and under the supervision of , a person fall within section 84 ( 2 ) ( b ) ; ( b ) a body be a " relevant body " in relation to p if p be act as the employee , officer , member or partner of the body when provide the immigration advice or immigration service to which the complaint relate ; ( c ) " officer " , in relation to a body corporate , mean a director , manager , secretary or other similar officer of the body . ( 1d ) the total amount that may be order to be refund or pay by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( f ) in respect of a complaint must not exceed £ 250 , 000 . ( 1E ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the amount for the time be specify in sub - paragraph ( 1d ) . ( 1f ) an order under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( f ) may specify the time by which the refund or payment must be make . " ( 5 ) after paragraph 9 insert — " order on determination of complaint to refund fee or pay compensation : procedure , appeal and enforcement 9a the complaint scheme must include provision secure that , where the Commissioner propose to make an order under paragraph 9 ( 1 ) ( f ) against a person — ( a ) the Commissioner must give the person a notice of what be propose ( a " notice of intent " ) , ( b ) the person may , within the period specify in the notice of intent , make written representation and objection to the Commissioner in relation to the propose order , ( c ) the Commissioner must , at the end of the period for make representation and objection , consider any representation and objection make and — ( i ) determine to make the propose order , ( ii ) determine not to make an order under paragraph 9 ( 1 ) ( f ) against the person , ( iii ) determine to make an order under paragraph 9 ( 1 ) ( f ) against the person require the person to refund or pay an amount which be less than the amount mention in the notice of intent , or ( iv ) provisionally determine to make an order under paragraph 9 ( 1 ) ( f ) against the person require the person to refund or pay an amount which be great than the amount mention in the notice of intent , and ( d ) where the Commissioner make a provisional determination as mention in paragraph ( c ) ( iv ) , the person be give an opportunity to make written representation and objection in relation to the provisional determination which must be consider by the Commissioner before the order be make . 9B where the Commissioner make an order under paragraph 9 ( 1 ) ( f ) against a person , the person may appeal to the first - tier Tribunal against the making of the order . 9C ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where — ( a ) on determine a complaint under the complaint scheme , the Commissioner make an order under paragraph 9 ( 1 ) ( f ) for an amount to be refund or pay to a person ( " p " ) , and ( b ) the appeal right in relation to the order be exhausted . ( 2 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) the appeal right in relation to an order be exhaust at a time when — ( a ) it be no long possible for an appeal against the order to be make under paragraph 9b ( ignore any possibility of an appeal out of time ) , and ( b ) there be no appeal against the order which be pende . ( 3 ) on the application of P or the Commissioner , a court may order that the amount to be refund or pay under the order be recoverable as if it be payable under an order of that court . ( 4 ) the Commissioner may make an application under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) only — ( a ) in the circumstance specify in the complaint scheme , and ( b ) with P ' s consent . ( 5 ) if a court make an order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) on the application of the Commissioner , the Commissioner may , in the circumstance specify in the complaint scheme and with p ' s consent , recover the amount mention in that sub - paragraph on behalf of p . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this paragraph — ( a ) an appeal be pende during the period — ( i ) start when the appeal be bring , and ( ii ) end when the appeal be finally determined , abandon or withdraw ; ( b ) " court " mean — ( i ) in England and Wales , the High Court or the county court ; ( ii ) in Scotland , the Court of Session or the sheriff ; ( iii ) in Northern Ireland , the High Court or a county court . " 1n ( 1 ) in section 166 ( 5 ) ( regulation subject to the affirmative procedure ) , at the end of paragraph ( d ) insert " or ( e ) paragraph 9 ( 1e ) of Schedule 5 , " . ( 2 ) if sub - paragraph ( 1 ) come into force before the come into force of paragraph 24 ( 2 ) of Schedule 11 to the Immigration Act 2016 , paragraph 24 ( 2 ) of that Schedule have effect on its come into force as if the " or " at the end of paragraph ( ca ) as insert by paragraph 24 ( 2 ) be omit . ( 3 ) if sub - paragraph ( 1 ) come into force at the same time as or after the come into force of paragraph 24 ( 2 ) of Schedule 11 to the Immigration Act 2016 , omit the " or " at the end of section 166 ( 5 ) ( can ) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 ( as insert by paragraph 24 ( 2 ) of that schedule ) . " — ( Dame Angela Eagle . ) this amendment extend the Immigration Services Commissioner ' s complaint scheme in relation to who may be the subject of a complaint under the scheme , who may be require to co - operate with the investigation of a complaint and what sanction may be impose if a complaint be uphold . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this Bill restore order to an asylum system that be leave in chaos by the Conservatives . it put an end to the fail gimmick and unworkable mess that they bequeath we . it repeal in full the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 , and it repeal most of the unworkable Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which trap asylum seeker in limbo as asylum backlog soar and the taxpayer pick up a spiral bill . this Government be clear up the mess that the conservative party leave we , and the Bill before the House will help we to succeed . it will assist in secure our border by deal with the soar backlog . it give counter - terror style power to law enforcement agency , equip they to go after the people - smuggle gang that be make million of pound out of exploit people ' s misery . the Bill introduce new power to seize electronic device and disrupt the activity of people smuggler ; new offence against gang sell or handle small boat part for use in the channel ; new power on serious crime prevention order to target individual involve in organise immigration crime ; a new law to protect life at sea by make it an offence to endanger another life during small boat crossing ; a new statutory footing for the Border Security Commander ; and new and improved datum sharing between Government agency , such as HMRC and DVLA , and law enforcement to detect organised immigration crime . the Bill introduce a statutory timeline for appeal decision and a major modernisation of the power of the Immigration Services Commissioner . it ensure that those who commit certain sexual offence will be deny protection under the refugee convention , and contain a long - overdue extension of the right - to - work check for casual and temporary worker in the gig economy , so why on earth be the conservative party go to vote against it tonight ? People smuggle be a complex and multifaceted problem , and there be no quick or easy solution to prevent it . anyone who claim that there be easy answer be a snake oil salesman , but it be possible to identify , disrupt and dismantle the criminal gang and strengthen the security of our border through international diplomacy and operational co - operation . this Bill will help we do just that , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary , who have a minute or two . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this unexpected opportunity . the reason the opposition will vote against the Bill be that it do nothing to restore control of our country ' s border . it repeal the legislative basis for a removal deterrent , which be need to stop people cross the english channel . the fact that the Labour Government cancel that deterrent before it start be why illegal crossing have go up by 29 % since the last election , and why this year have be the bad in history for illegal crossing of the english channel . this Bill weaken border control , and it remove the power that the Government could otherwise exercise to control our border . they be fail , and this Bill will do nothing to restore control of our border . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley David Burton - Sampson Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Keir Mather Christian Wakeford Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie French Mark Garnier Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Richard Holden Katie Lam the House divide : Ayes 316 , Noes 95 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Deferred Divisions Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motions in the name of James Murray relate to ( a ) Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill : Ways and Means ; and ( b ) Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) bill : money . — ( Sir Nicholas Dakin . ) question agree to . Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . resolve , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Emma Hardy . ) delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Capital Gains Tax that the draft Finance Act 2021 ( increase in Schedule 26 Penalty Percentages ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 31 March , be approve . — ( Sir Nicholas Dakin . ) question agree to . British Nationals murder abroad : support for Families Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Sir Nicholas Dakin . ) I be glad to be able to speak in the Adjournment today about an issue of painful neglect that affect 80 british family each year , yet remain largely hide from public and parliamentary view . we have all say goodbye to a love one at an airport , wish they well for their holiday , or their time abroad for work or study . if any of we be to receive a phone call say that our love one have be murder when they be in the UK , that phone call would be devastating enough , but to receive that phone call when a love one be thousand of mile away — murder across an ocean , in a country that speak another language — be a whole different world of pain and confusion . every year , british citizen be kill in act of violence abroad . in many case , their family be leave to deal with unimaginable grief for the loss of a love one , all while face with the full weight of an unfamiliar , bureaucratic and different system . they do that alone . they have to navigate foreign legal procedure , untranslated document and distant court proceeding with patchy , inconsistent support from their government — all at a time of trauma , vulnerability and mourning . tonight , I want to be a voice for those family , through the Murdered Abroad campaign , a group of bereaved relative who have turn their grief into a powerful call for change . they be not ask for special treatment — in fact , they want the complete opposite . they be ask for fairness and compassion , and the kind of structured , statutory support that family receive when tragedy strike on british soil . in January this year , I meet a family in Maidenhead , who discuss their story of their son ' s murder in America in 2009 . they manage to contact the consulate , but the time difference be tricky , and there be not much help for the family with communicating . after many call , they realise they be not really get anywhere , so they have to take matter into their own hand , even go so far as to arrange the repatriation of their son ' s body in the absence of support from their government . when a british citizen be murder abroad , their family be plunge not only into grief and shock , but into a crisis make bad by the overwhelming burden of have to navigate unfamiliar system with a lack of support . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate on a subject that be very important to many . between 2010 and 2015 , more than 250 british national be murder abroad , in Pakistan , Tunisia , France and the United States , which he mention . we often see horror story online — case in which an individual have be find but not yet identify . do he agree that , in the case of british national , there be more that the Foreign Office could do to ensure that all effort be make to alert the family before any news be release to the medium ? sometimes the medium need to be sensitive . I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman . I have speak to a number of family across the country who say that they find out via social medium or via the press that their son or parent have be murder . that be not good enough — it be not acceptable . I want to start with language barrier , which be among the first and most distressing problem that family face . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office offer family a list of translator , but those list often come without crucial context , such as information about whether the translator be legally certify , whether they be experience with criminal or judicial terminology , whether they be available on short notice , and how much they cost . in a moment of extreme vulnerability , family be force into a commercial marketplace with no quality control and no guidance . many simply can not afford translation fee , which can run into thousand of pound , yet they be hand copy of important document — autopsy report , court transcript , police record , judgment — in a language they do not speak . that be an active barrier to justice . let we consider for a moment what that mean in practice : a grieve mother receive her child ' s post - mortem report , unable to understand a word of it , or a widower leave alone to guess at the meaning of complex judgment finding , not even sure whether justice have be serve or deny , because they can not read the verdict . then we must confront the issue of distance . in many case , trial take place thousand of mile away . family may be notify of court proceeding at short notice and be often give no logistical or financial support to attend . the cost of flight , accommodation , meal and unpaid leave from work quickly add up . for many , it become an impossible choice : deplete their saving to try to attend , or stay at home and risk miss their one chance to see justice carry out , to hear what happen or to look the accuse in the eye . the Government do not provide any funding for family to attend foreign trial , even when the court ' s finding could have a direct impact on a coroner ' s inquest here in the UK . this be not about luxury ; it be about basic fairness . no bereaved family should be price out of justice because a killing happen beyond our border . add to that the challenge of cultural and legal complexity , and it be easy to see why family feel so lost . legal system vary from country to country . some be adversarial like our ; other be not . some permit victim ' family to play an active role ; other do not . the length of proceeding , the level of evidence require and the appeal process all differ , yet family be give little to no explanation by the Government . they be often tell to find a lawyer abroad , but the list provide come with little guidance . there be no indication whether those lawyer speak English , specialise in murder , understand victim support or be familiar with work alongside british family . all the while , in the UK , the family be leave with no legal advice from someone who specialise in overseas homicide case . time and again , however , the most frustrating aspect be communication failure , which the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention . family describe be leave in the dark about the most basic detail of the case . trial date come and go without notice . hearing be adjourn with no explanation . key development , such as the release of a suspect or even a final verdict , be learn of through the medium , social medium or word of mouth , rather than through official channel . that be unacceptable . family be not ask for the world ; they be ask for regular update , clear communication and transparency , so that they be not blindside by crucial development in the pursuit of justice for their love one . some aspect of the case that the hon . Gentleman be eloquently describe be sadly very similar to those in the case of Rob Spray , from my Cannock Chase constituency , who die suddenly in Bulgaria in 2019 . Rob ' s case be about to be hear at inquest , so I will not comment on the legal aspect , but I can say that his family be leave in the dark by the bulgarian authority and , sadly , by the Foreign Office . they have very little guidance , even on how to bring Rob ' s body back to the UK , and they have to resort to a translation app to decipher Rob ' s autopsy after they be tell that they would have to wait six month for an official translation . that all deepen their grief and frustration at the bad possible time . the bad part of all be that Rob ' s mom sadly pass away not know what happen to her son . I will do everything I can to help Rob ' s family get the answer that they have wait so long to get , and I know that the hon . Gentleman will continue to campaign on this . do he agree that we need to make sure that bereaved family like the spray get the full support of the British Government , so that they can get the closure that they need and deserve ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , and for talk about Rob and his family . it be really important that the Government step up and support family , where they need it . family need consistent advice , and to know that they have someone to turn to . that bring I on nicely to my next point , which be about the consistency of support for family through consular service . some describe consular service overseas as be provide by really positive , empathetic individual who go out of their way to help , but far too many tell I about be pass from person to person , receive contradictory advice , have email ignore and be make to feel more like a burden than a bereaved family in need of care . the inconsistency be one of the crucial failing , because there be no statutory duty on the Government to provide a minimum standard of support to family in such circumstance . the level of help depend on the consulate involve , which official pick up the phone , and which country the incident occur in . it be a passport lottery . I want to mention some real people and highlight how they feel they have be fail . Eve Henderson ' s husband Roderick be kill in France in 1997 . she encounter immediate language barrier and a completely different judicial process that no one explain to she and no one help she navigate . Brian Chandler ' s grandson Liam be kill in Greece in 2006 . he be push from a fourth - floor balcony by his own father , a british national . the perpetrator admit what he have do , yet the greek court find he not guilty because of a psychiatric episode . for Liam ' s family , the experience of sit through the trial in a foreign language and try to understand the complex legal argument with no help be traumatic and bewildering . the fact that the case involve a british perpetrator make it all the more difficult to understand why british authority provide no support . Brenda ' s brother Howard be kill in Australia in 1999 . she face an enormous barrier of distance . attend the trial mean significant cost , time off work and personal sacrifice . no financial assistance or practical help be offer . she have to choose between justice and affordability — an impossible choice that no grieve family should ever have to make . Alyssa ' s sister Vanessa be kill in Thailand in 2004 . Alyssa face a perfect storm of challenge : the language barrier , cultural difference , geographical distance and an unfamiliar legal system . she have no understanding of how Thai court operate and no guidance on how to follow proceeding , and it quickly become a nightmare . those be not isolate incident ; they be emblematic of a broken and inconsistent system . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate . Dr Ding Col Dau Ding be raise and educate in North Norfolk and become a neurosurgeon before travel to South Sudan to practise medicine and save life . in 2017 , he be find dead in his family ' s flat , and they believe that he be murder . the official Government narrative be that he die by suicide or misadventure , but there be significant evidence to dispute that . do my hon . friend agree that there be an extra challenge for family whose loved one be murder abroad when they also have to challenge the authority , and that the Foreign Office should support they in their fight for justice ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . it be incredibly important that the authority provide that extra support . one thing that family have tell I make a real difference be the peer support that they can get from other family who have walk the path , and who can offer reassurance , practical advice and emotional understanding that no bureaucrat or leaflet ever could . these support network , like murder abroad , be under - resource and often disconnect from formal consular process . they be run by volunteer — by the bereaved themselves — who have take on this work not because they be ask to , but because nobody else would . it be time we support they and recognise their work , because that be what we be here to do . we need a clear , comprehensive statutory framework of support for family of british citizen murder abroad . I be call on the Government to commit to eight key reform . first , there need to be a statutory duty to provide consistent and timely communication to bereaved family . every family should have a name point of contact and regular update , not a revolving door of anonymous official and faceless email inboxe . secondly , key document must be translate into English . no family should be force to hire their own translator through crowdfunde or use up all their saving just to understand how their love one die . thirdly , there need to be accessible guidance on the foreign country ' s judicial process , include information about how criminal investigation work , trial expectation , timeline and victim right . this information should be publicly accessible . fourthly , there must be a list of verify legal support that make it clear what kind of case the legal expert handle and whether they speak English . fifthly , we need improved co - operation between british and foreign authority as well as police liaison and information sharing . the UK must be proactive in ensure that our citizen ' case be not allow to stall for long period of time . sixthly , family should have support to attend foreign trial , include financial assistance where it be desperately need , logistical help and trauma - inform briefing . attendance at trial should be a right , not a luxury . seventhly , we need clear co - ordination within the UK . that include consistent advice on repatriation , clear guidance on coroner inquest and formal link to the peer - to - peer network that can reduce isolation and provide live experience insight , because it can often be so different . finally , we need an independent complaint and review mechanism , so that when support fail , family know that they have somewhere to turn . this mechanism must include the power to investigate , recommend and drive change . these point be important , because this provision do not exist at the moment . the loss of a love one to murder be already the great pain a family can endure . that pain should not be compound by systemic failure , indifference or confusion . the family who make up the Murdered Abroad campaign have show courage , dignity and resolve , and not just in seek justice for their love one , but in try to ensure that no one else suffer the way that they have . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . he eloquently outline the step that would ensure that people who suffer bereavement abroad receive justice . do he agree that as well as have a framework for go forward , we also need the Foreign Office to look retrospectively at historical case to ensure that people who have previously suffer get the justice they deserve ? my hon . friend make a really important point . as I say , about 80 family be affect each year , so this issue be ongoing and we need to make sure that where thing have not go right , we fix they and provide support to these family . the change that family be call for be not radical ; they be humane , reasonable and long overdue , so I ask the Minister directly : will the Government commit to work with family , consular staff , legal expert and campaigner to create a statutory framework for support , and will she ensure that no british family be leave to face this horror alone , with only silence and guesswork for company ? let we remember that if a british citizen be murder on UK soil , their family would have access to a whole network of support — victim liaison officer , legal aid , local police , court , coroner and therapeutic service . it should not matter where the tragedy happen ; a british passport should still guarantee a minimum level of support from the british state . the UK must do well , because british justice do not stop at our border . a british life lose , no matter where it happen , be still a british life lose . compassion in the face of tragedy be not optional ; it be a duty , and it be a duty that we should be take on . may I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) on secure this very important debate and on his thoughtful and compassionate contribution ? he have use his voice this evening for the voiceless , and I thank he for do so . lose a love one to murder be devastating , but when that tragedy happen overseas , the pain be only compound by distance , unfamiliar legal system and the complexity of navigate bureaucracy while try to grieve . I fully agree with the hon . Gentleman that family go through something so traumatic should never have to face it alone . they should be able to access support to help they cope and recover . let I reassure the hon . Gentleman and this House that bereave family in England and Wales can access support , even if the crime take place abroad . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office lead on provide support to family bereave through murder or manslaughter overseas . the specialist murder and manslaughter team in the fcdo ' s consular assistance department provide emotional support to bereaved family and help they to navigate challenge investigative and judicial process in foreign country . that include when a death occur in an event designate by the UK Government as an act of terrorism . family can receive update on an investigation or trial , guidance about local legal process , and help find support service in the country where the incident happen . while the fcdo can not intervene in another country ' s justice system , it do all it can to ensure that family be keep inform and treat with compassion . I do appreciate , however , that the experience of family in legal system abroad , as we have hear from hon . member , can be deeply painful at a time when they be already experience immense grief . this evening , I want to pay tribute to my constituent Nathan Osman , who tragically lose his life in Benidorm on 28 September last year . his family , include his sister Alannah , brother Lee and parent Liz and Jonathan , have give their consent to speak about Nathan today . my team and I have be support they for several month as they fight tirelessly for justice . Alannah be initially contact by the spanish authority on the day of Nathan ' s death . the exchange of information be brief and unclear , with Alannah confirm her name only to be tell , " brother find dead , bottom of cliff . " they be tell to contact the british embassy two day later and leave with no additional information . the spanish police initially — like in the case of Dr Ding , mention by the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) — rule Nathan ' s death as accidental and close his case with little investigation or support . it be only thank to the family ' s research and investigation , with help from my team — specifically from Rebecca Lewis — that enough information be collate to reopen that case . I hope that will bring closure for the Osman family . while South Wales police do their good to support the family during the immediate aftermath of Nathan ' s death , they have no direct contact with the spanish authority or interpol to clarify if the translate information that the family have receive be correct and accurate . the point I make to the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) be that family sometimes find out about these case on social medium or somewhere else . I would have think that whenever the police in whatever country become aware that someone be a british citizen , they would immediately contact the embassy and make it aware of what have happen so that it could be the conduit . could that be do ? we have have a similar case in Northern Ireland , although I will not go into any detail because it be an ongoing case . there be an important role for the consulate and the british embassy to play . the hon . Gentleman make a valid point . it should be the appropriate protocol for the police to be inform first of an incident in a country , with the family inform by the police in that country or by the police in our country via Interpol , as I say . but , in today ' s modern age , sadly that be not always the case . it be not fair to the family that they find out second or third hand . an appropriate protocol should be in place . that should be how it happen . sadly , we know that be not always the case . the Osman family do not receive , and do not know that they could receive , a train family liaison officer in Wales , and they be largely ignore by spanish police . when they visit Spain shortly afterwards , they have to describe the situation on a mobile phone use Google Translate — we have hear that about similar case — and there be extensive miscommunication throughout the ordeal between the family and external authority , cost valuable investigation time and prolong their agony . there be many other issue with obtain Nathan ' s case file and coroner ' s report , which the family believe contain a number of discrepancy . no one should have to endure what they go through . lose a young family member in such horrific circumstance be a pain that few of we can truly understand , and they be retraumatise through various error and miscommunication . in the picture and video share with my team by the family , it be easy to see what a dedicated father Nathan be to his young child and how much he be still love and miss every day . I thank Alannah , Lee , Liz and Jonathan for share Nathan ' s story with I , and I thank hon . member for share their story with I this evening . I be sure the whole House will join I in share all our condolence with everyone impact . I thank the Minister for the open and sensitive way in which she be respond to the debate and for share the experience of the family of her constituent Nathan . I be familiar with that case . she hear I explain the contact that I be have with the family of Rob Spray in my constituency . would she be willing to meet I and the family , when the time be right for they , to see what could be do to get they the answer they so desperately want ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the Sprays ' experience . it be their live experience and the experience of other bereaved family that fuel I and give I that information to conduct my role as the victim Minister . I wholeheartedly welcome that correspondence and information . in addition to the fcdo support that I have set out , the Homicide Service be commission by the Ministry of Justice to provide specialist practical , emotional , peer and advocacy support to family after a murder , whether it happen here or abroad . for homicide that occur overseas , that include fund to contribute to the cost of repatriation to the UK , for the family to travel to the country in question , and for the interpretation and translation of document , among other service . crucially , this support be tailor to each family ' s circumstance and be available for as long as it be need , so that family be not leave to navigate these challenge alone . I have be help a constituent whose relative be murder abroad over 10 year ago , and it be still an ongoing issue . my constituent tell I that the response from the fcdo have not always be prompt or clear , that there have not always be a name point of contact and that , sadly , in some instance there have be mistake in email that be label " official " by the fcdo . in addition to offer support to colleague through talk about their experience , would the Minister and her colleague consider set up some sort of drop - in to which mps could bring their case , so that we can all help our constituent to get the justice they deserve ? I thank the hon . member for that contribution , and I be so sorry to hear of his constituent ' s experience . it be exactly that type of experience that be fuel I to find out what more we can do to support the family of those murder abroad . I think a drop - in would be welcome , and I welcome correspondence from member across the House on their experience . I also appeal to family across England and Wales to let I hear about their experience directly so that I can work with charity such as Murdered Abroad and the Victims ' commissioner to see what more we can do for they . we have a memorandum of understanding in place on murder , manslaughter and infanticide abroad between the fcdo , UK policing and his Majesty ' s coroner . this set out clearly the support that be available when a british national be murder overseas and the deceased have be repatriate to England or Wales . it clearly define the role of each signatory , set out a share commitment to work together in support of bereaved family . in some case , this include assign a family liaison officer to bereaved family in the UK , although I appreciate that this be at the discretion of the local police force . at local level in England and Wales , police and crime commissioner also have the power to commission service for all victim of crime , include support victim where the crime have be commit overseas . however , as I have already outline , we recognise that for many family in this difficult position , it be not always clear what support be available or how to access it . that be why , as we develop the new victim code provide for in the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , we be consider what further information can be include to well signpost help for those affect by crime overseas . I intend to consult on the new code with all new member and the public in due course . while the Minister be develop that code , and before we reach the point at which it be ready to be share widely with the public , would it be valuable for she to meet Eve and other who found the charity murder abroad , and to talk directly to they about their experience and how they could influence the code at this early stage ? I welcome the hon . member ' s comment . it be crucial that we consult organisation such as Murdered Abroad when look at the new victim code . it be important that we consult all organisation support victim and survivor as we look at what else be miss from the code and how good we can provide that support . that say , I should make it clear that we do not necessarily believe that the victim code be the right place to make provision for victim of overseas crime . the code set out the minimum standard of service that victim should receive when involve in case deal with in the criminal justice system in England and Wales . it be therefore design around the law and procedure that we have here in our jurisdiction and our criminal justice system , much of which will not be applicable in case involve crime overseas . it be therefore not the right vehicle to make provision for victim where the offence be investigate and prosecute abroad , as consular support overseas relie on the response of agency in that specific country where the crime occur . I commit to the hon . member for Maidenhead and the House that , follow the new code , my Department will work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council , the fcdo , the Victims ' Commissioner and Murdered abroad , take into account the live experience of other , to explore how we can make clear what support exist for family affect by homicide abroad and what more we can do to support they . we know how traumatic and isolate it can be to lose a love one to violence in a foreign country . no family should face that kind of devastation alone , and our heart go out to family who have go , and be go , through it . when it do happen , those family deserve compassion , clarity and proper support . we be work to improve access to the help available and to ensure that those who need support know how to find it . I hope the hon . member for Maidenhead be reassure by the measure I have set out and the step we be take to strengthen the support on offer even far . question put and agree to . House adjourn .