Speaker ' s statement I can inform the House that the ballot for the election of Deputy Speakers be currently take place in Committee Room 8 . the ballot will close at 1 . 30 pm . I hope to be able to announce the result of the election later today . oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — NHS dental contracting Framework what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of the NHS dental contracting framework . what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of the NHS dental contracting framework . what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of the NHS dental contracting framework . first , may I welcome my hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) to the House , and say what an absolute privilege it be to have be appoint Secretary of State for Health and Social Care ? we have our work cut out for we , with not only the bad economic inheritance since 1945 , for which the Conservatives should show more humility , but the bad crisis in the history of our national health service , which we see reflect particularly in NHS dentistry . some 13 million people in England have unmet need for NHS dentistry , or 28 % of the country , and it be disgraceful that rot tooth be the most common reason for child age between five and nine be admit to hospital . during the general election campaign , I pledge to meet the British Dental Association immediately to start conversation on contract reform , and I do exactly that . I look forward to work with dentist and other from across the sector to reform the dental contract and rebuild NHS dentistry . I welcome my right hon . friend to his place . Norfolk be a dental desert and my constituent be suffer . as well as reform the contract , we need to train more dentist . in the east of England we do not have a dental school , but the University of East Anglia have put forward proposal for one . will he meet I , other hon . member from Norfolk and representative from the University of East Anglia to discuss this important proposal ? it be appal that Norfolk and Waveney be so poorly serve in term of dentistry . there be only 36 dentist per 100 , 000 people , compare with the national average of 53 , so when my hon . Friend say that her community be a dental desert , member should know that it be the Sahara of dental desert . we will work with partner to ensure that patient across the country can access a dentist when they need one . I be aware , not least thank to her advocacy and the advocacy of other Labour mps across Norfolk , of the University of East Anglia ' s proposal , and I would be delighted to meet she and my colleague . my constituent in Sunderland Central tell I that NHS dentistry be break . it be not just that they can not access routine care , but that if they be strike with , for example , excruciating toothache , they can not access urgent appointment either . I therefore ask my right hon . Friend what step he be take , alongside the welcome reform of the dental contract , to ensure that urgent dental service be available locally in place such as Sunderland . I welcome my hon . friend ; he certainly have big shoe to fill in Sunderland Central and be a worthy successor to his predecessor . he be absolutely right that alongside contract reform we need urgent action . that be why we commit to provide 700 , 000 additional urgent appointment and recruiting dentist to where they be most need , and I be delighted to report that dentist stand ready to assist . we be work with the BDA urgently to get those appointment up and run as soon as possible , and we will keep the House inform on progress as we do . High Peak be also a dental desert . we speak to one practice that say it get as many call for registration as it do for appointment . often those call be deeply distressing , with elderly people unable to eat because they need their denture sort . what first step be the Secretary of State able to take to cure 14 year of conservative failure in NHS dentistry ? I welcome my hon . friend to the House . he be absolutely right to point out that these challenge have be 14 year in the making , and it will take time to fix the damage that the Conservatives have do to our national health service . we will start with 700 , 000 urgent appointment , as we promise , and we will continue with contract reform , which be essential . I reassure he that as we do , we will have the need of all community in our country at heart , especially rural community such as his that have particular challenge . I look forward to involve he and keep he up to date on progress as we make it . the NHS dental recovery plan be launch early this year , and the Secretary of State have on his desk news about the impact that it be have . could he share with the House how much the plan have increase appointment in the Worcestershire and Herefordshire integrate care board area ? the conservative party laud that plan during the general election , when I think the public deliver their verdict on the progress that it have make . nhs dentistry be non - existent in huge part of the country . we will stick with some aspect of the previous Government ' s dental recovery plan because they be the right solution , but there be gimmick that we will not proceed with . we will come forward with a serious plan to reform the dental contract , which the conservative commit to in 2010 but fail to do in every single year of their 14 year . I have a constituent who have be try to get a dentist appointment for a year . they have painful abscess , can not sleep and can not eat use the right side of their mouth . we need to get on with this . I note that a review of the NHS have be launch , but the British Dental Association be concerned that that review will delay the change to NHS dentistry that be so desperately need . will the Secretary of State give we a timeline for when we will see change ? I be grateful to the hon . member for her question and congratulate she on her re - election to the House . she be right to point to the detrimental impact that the Conservatives ' failure be have on people ' s life . in fact , in 1948 , when the national health service be found , Nye Bevan receive a letter from a woman who have work her entire life in the Lancashire cotton mill about how the dentistry she be give by the national health service have give her dignity and the freedom to associate in any company . what a tragedy that 76 year later , the conservative party have squander and destroy that legacy to the point where people be suffer not just pain and agony , but the indignity of be unable to find a job and unable to socialise in polite company because they be ashamed of the state of their rotting tooth . the hon . member be absolutely right : Lord Darzi be conduct a review on the state of the NHS , and it will report in September . that be not prevent we from make progress , talk to the BDA and work within the Department and across the sector to get those 700 , 000 appointment up and run as a matter of urgency . I look forward to report the progress to she and other right hon . and hon . member . as the right hon . Gentleman be aware , there be a particular shortage of NHS dentist in coastal and rural community such as mine on the Isle of Wight . will he therefore commit to the previous Government ' s plan for 240 golden hello for newly qualified dentist by the end of the year to address that issue ? I welcome the hon . member to the House — it be a rare thing to welcome new Conservative Members , and he be welcome . he be absolutely right to touch on the workforce issue in NHS dentistry , and to say that we need to incentivise dentist , on two front : we need they to commit to and do more work in the NHS — we be look at a range of thing in that regard — and we need to ensure that we get more dentist to the area in which they be most need . we will certainly support incentive to that effect . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the right hon . Member and his new team to their place in the Department . the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , prioritise access to care , include NHS dentistry , when she be Secretary of State . the dental recovery plan that she launch announce new dental van to provide access to care to our most rural community and coastal community in England . we have agree with NHS England that the first van would be on the road by this autumn , and I know that that timescale be welcome by colleague across the House . will he confirm that dental van will be on the road by this autumn ? I could not have pick a well example of the previous Government ' s desperately low ceiling of ambition than the fact that , after 14 year , they laud their triumph of dental van roam the country in the absence of actual dentist and dental surgery . what an absolute disgrace . I accept that the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be just the last in a very long list of Health and Social Care Secretaries who have the chance to fix the problem . it be not all on she , and it be important that I say that — not least because of the conservative leadership election that will be take place soon . I congratulate the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , on his appointment , but he sit behind Secretaries of State as their parliamentary private Secretary year after year , week after week , look at the utterly abysmal failure of their record . when it come to criticise this Government on the action that we will take , the Conservatives do not have a leg to stand on . access to NHS dentist what step his Department plan to take to improve access to nhs dentist . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and welcome he to his place . thank to what the conservative party have do to NHS dentistry over the past 14 year , a staggering 13 million people be unable to see a dentist . I know that the hon . Gentleman represent the constituency that have the low number of dentist per head in the entire country . our rescue plan will provide 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment and recruit dentist to area that need they . we will rebuild the service for the long term by reform the dental contract . as the Minister have allude to , we in North Norfolk have suffer in particular from unallocated unit of dental treatment be move to other part of the country . the integrated care board have be tell that it will have to return this year ' s unused money to the Treasury . will the Minister commit to protect unallocated dental fund in my constituency ? as my right hon . friend the Health Secretary state , on the Monday after the general election , he meet the British Dental Association to look at a range of issue around the long - term NHS contract . that be an ongoing dialogue — it include unit of dental activity , of course — and we need to ensure that we have the negotiation rapidly . we will work at pace to address some of those long - term issue , but let we not forget that the conservative party allow the NHS contract to atrophy and take NHS dentistry to the brink of collapse in our country . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and his fantastic team on take their new place on the Government Front Bench . I also thank my right hon . friend for his advocacy in the last Parliament for people across my constituency who lack dental access . what assurance can the Minister provide that the important issue of infrastructure and housing will be link together ? as we look to build those much - need 1 . 5 million home across the country , it be vital to make sure that we do not have more dental desert and that we have the infrastructure we need . how will he work in a cross - departmental way to ensure we achieve that ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and warmly welcome she to her place and congratulate she on her election . the key aspect of our dental rescue plan include 700 , 000 more appointment through extra funding that we will generate by crack down on tax dodger and close other loophole . we will incentivise new graduate dentist to come to area that be underserved to ensure that we plug the gap — there will be golden hello to make that happen . we be also work hard on thing like supervised toothbrushing for three to five - year - old , because prevention be always well than cure . New Health Centre : maghull whether his Department plan to provide capital funding for a new health centre at Maghull in Sefton Central constituency . I congratulate my hon . friend on his re - election . he will know that capital allocation be a matter for the integrate care board . we be committed to introduce neighbourhood care centre to bring together vital care service , and I look forward to work with he on Labour ' s mission to improve the front door to the local NHS . I congratulate my right hon . and hon . friend on their appointment . the predecessor of my right hon . friend the Health Secretary — there have be quite a few over the past few year — all agree with I that a health centre in Maghull in my constituency be a priority for the health service , but as my hon . friend have just say , the allocation of capital by integrated care board have mean that the priority have be acute hospital , sometimes at the expense of community facility . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss the importance of investment in health centre such as the one in Maghull , which make such a difference to reduce wait time in the NHS and improve patient outcome ? my hon . friend be first out of the block on this issue , and have show his commitment to improve primary care for his constituent . I be sure the local ICB have listen very carefully to his question , because we know that the exist primary care estate be under a great deal of pressure . that be why build a neighbourhood health service remain at the forefront of our mission to rebuild the NHS , and I would be pleased to meet he to discuss that topic . Newcastle - under - Lyme Landfill site : Health effect if he will hold discussion with the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs on the potential effect of toxic air from landfill site on people ' s health in Newcastle - under - Lyme constituency . I warmly welcome my hon . friend , the new Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme , and thank he for raise this important issue . the UK Health Security Agency work with the regulator , the Environment Agency , to advise on health risk from landfill site . in relation to the site in his constituency , the ukhsa undertake monthly risk assessment use air quality datum . a multi - agency group , include Government agency and local authority , meet regularly to review the situation and any intervention need . I will , of course , raise his concern with my counterpart in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . I thank the Minister for his answer , and welcome he to his place . Walleys Quarry landfill in Newcastle - under - Lyme be an environmental crisis and a health one too , and my constituent Sheelagh Casey - Hulme , Jan Middleton , Lee Walford and many other be rightly scared and angry about the impact of toxic level of hydrogen sulphide on the health and wellbeing of local people . will the Minister come to Newcastle - under - Lyme to listen , to learn and to smell , and to help we finally stop the stink ? public health and prevention be priority for I and this Labour Government . obviously , the Environment Agency take the lead in this specific instance , but I be more than happy to jump off the train at Stoke — if my hon . friend will pick I up — and visit his constituent to listen to their concern , and to ensure that the public health consideration be amplify to Environment Agency colleague . Fracture Liaison Services whether he be take step to ensure the provision of fracture liaison service in all hospital . I thank the learned and gallant hon . member for his question . More than 500 , 000 fragility fracture occur every year , and up to 40 % of fracture patient will suffer another fracture . I praise the campaign by the Sunday Express , the Mail on Sunday and the Royal Osteoporosis Society for their campaign on this . I be pleased to reiterate the Government ' s commitment to expand access to fracture liaison service . the Department be work closely with NHS England to develop plan to ensure well quality and access to these important preventive service . first , I congratulate the Minister and the rest of the Front - Bench team on their appointment . as a former orthopaedic surgeon , I be mindful of the impact of osteoporosis on many of our constituent , include my own in Solihull West and Shirley . in England , more than 67 , 000 people suffer a fracture every year , and a disproportionate number of those be woman . what we do know , however , be that fracture liaison service , where they be deliver well , can prevent many of those fracture . currently , half of the country have access to such service . the last Conservative Government make a commitment to roll they out to the whole country by 2030 . will the Minister honour that commitment ? the hon . Gentleman make a really important point , and we be absolutely committed to ensure that these service across England be well than those we have inherit . of course , I completely agree with he about the need to improve these service in specific part of the country , which be something we will be look at in detail . however , I have to say to the hon . Gentleman that the one thing those of we on this side of the House will not be do be what he have write about in " ConservativeHome " , which be health rationing and cut back on treatment . urgent and Emergency Care what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of NHS urgent and emergency care service . I congratulate my hon . friend on her election , and I also pass on my good wish to she and her husband , who I know recently suffer a stroke . we hope he make a speedy recovery . we recognise the great work of NHS staff for they , and indeed for all our constituent every day , but we do know that the NHS be break . the late datum confirm the terrible state in which the Conservatives leave urgent and emergency care service , with one in four patient wait long than four hour in A & E . that be why Professor Lord Darzi will lead an investigation into NHS performance , and the finding will inform our 10 - year reform of the NHS . I thank the Minister for her kind word today , and I also thank my right hon . friend the Health Secretary for his wish on the day . Mr Speaker , may I also take this opportunity to thank you and your staff for the care and kindness you show I ? resident in my constituency of Stratford and Bow be serve by Barts health NHS trust , which include Newham University , Royal London and Whipps Cross hospital . in May , their A & E department have the second high volume of any trust in England and the high in London . overcrowding and capacity constraint mean that the staff at those hospital be have to treat some patient in corridor rather than on ward . this be the broken nhs that we have inherit from the Conservatives . will the Minister ask her Department to look at capacity issue at those hospital and at how community pharmacy prescribing service may be use to alleviate some of the pressure ? my hon . friend make an excellent point highlight the challenge particularly around hospital capacity , something well - know on the Front Bench with my right hon . friend the Health Secretary represent a nearby area . this type of patient experience be unacceptable , but it sadly become normal under the last government of 14 year . my hon . friend make an excellent point about pharmacy : they will have a central role in our future system , and I would of course be happy to undertake a visit with she . I welcome the new Front - Bench Members to their new portfolio and responsibility . Essex have actually see some improvement in emergency care service over the past 14 year , particularly in our ambulance trust , and that should be commend . one way in which pressure on emergency service can be reduce be by have community facility in our town and across our district . will the Minister commit to meet I and work with my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) on look at way in which we can safeguard community service at St Peter ' s hospital in Maldon , which our community absolutely need ? I thank the right hon . Lady because she again make for we the excellent point about what have happen in the last 14 year under her government : these situation have be allow to get so much bad both in Essex and across the country . she should also welcome our mission to rebuild the broken front door to the NHS and have more neighbourhood service base in community , bring those service together where patient be ; that be absolutely what we all want and I be very happy to discuss this with she . for 14 year the community in Telford and I have work hard to safeguard our a & E , but the last Conservative Government make Telford the large town without a fully function A & E . will the Health team meet I and other Shropshire mps to discuss this discredited and disgraceful decision ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he know what we all know , and what we know the entire country know because we spend the past six week campaign : it be the same story across the country . that be why we be commit to restore standard and why we will fix this broken NHS , and of course I be happy to meet with he . a decision by the Conservatives two year ago mean that the urgent treatment centre at the West Cornwall hospital in Penzance be now close at night , and that have put pressure on the only emergency department in Cornwall — a long peninsula — at Treliske , where routinely 20 ambulance be park outside create a new metallic ward at the front of the hospital . that situation have have a detrimental impact , of course include avoidable death . will the Minister meet I and colleague and the local NHS to discuss this issue , to see how we can restore our emergency service ? again , across the country we see the damage do over the last 14 year , and the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to highlight that the situation in one part of the system knock on to other part . that be why we want a 10 - year plan to look at this , an immediate look with Lord Darzi , and , critically , to understand which community and primary care service can be support to support the rest of the system . I be very happy to meet with colleague across Cornwall , where we now have many Labour mp . NHS Dentistry : Work requirement if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of require newly - qualified dentist to work for the NHS for a set period of time . I thank the hon . Gentleman and congratulate he on his survival instinct in get re - elect to this place . nhs dentistry need urgent action thank to 14 year of chaos , failure and neglect . our rescue plan will get NHS dentistry back on its foot , follow by contract reform to make NHS dentistry more attractive . a consultation for a tie - in to NHS dentistry for graduate dentist close on 18 July and we be now consider the response . the Government position on this proposal will be set out in due course and I will keep the House update on this matter . I thank the hon . gentleman for that answer and congratulate he and his colleague the Secretary of State on their appointment . all of we who be serious about the health service and the need for reform , about which the Secretary of State have speak , have their back in push for reform . the hon . Gentleman have his moment of triumph , but may I gently encourage he to reach out and build a cross - party coalition of support for serious reform ? the NHS be break not by Tory cut but by year — [ interruption . ] for year we have be pour money in ; it need to modernise for the 21st - century . in the spirit of which , on dentistry , may I encourage the Front - Bench team to reach out and have a meeting — a rainbow coalition meeting include the new hon . member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) and for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) — of all mps in Norfolk , which have suffer more than most county ? we desperately need that University of East Anglia dental school . the hon . Gentleman be do so well at the start , and then he kind of blow it a bit towards the end . it be absolutely right that we put country before party , and we will work with whoever have the good interest of rebuild our public service at heart . the issue that he raise specifically sound interesting . what I would say be that unless we get the big picture sort , and unless we make nhs work pay for dentist , we will not be able to rebuild the NHS dentistry system that we should be cherish and seek to reform . I be of course always open to conversation with he . just 39 . 2 % of my constituent be able to access an NHS dentist over the past two year . that be an absolute disgrace , but the Health and Social Care Committee put together a report into NHS dentistry , set out a blueprint for how to resolve the challenge , include access , look at tie - in and ensure that we get more dentist register . will the Minister look at that report and follow its recommendation ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her re - election ; it be wonderful to see she back in her place . she be absolutely right that the tie - in consultation deadline be 18 July . we be consider those response with an open mind . on the broad issue that she mention , our rescue plan be 700 , 000 more appointment , incentive for new graduate to go to under - serve area , reform of the dental contract and make work pay for dentist . that plan be at the heart of the reform that she mention and that be what we will be do . NHS Mental Health Services what assessment he have make of the adequacy of access to NHS mental health service . what assessment he have make of the adequacy of access to NHS mental health service . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) on his re - election and my hon . friend the Member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) on his election . More than a million people with mental health issue be not get the support they need . this government will fix our break NHS . that will include recruit 8 , 500 mental health worker , include specialist mental health professional in every school and roll out young future hub in every community . as announce in the Gracious Speech , we be bring forward legislation to modernise the Mental Health Act 1983 , which be a hugely significant step that have be warmly welcome by service user , campaigner and , indeed , the former conservative Prime Minister Theresa May . I welcome the Minister to his place . funding to bring desperately need in - patient mental health service back to Bedford have be sit in the account of our local mental health trust for year , but it can not be use because of the previous Government ' s capital expenditure limit . will the Minister therefore meet I to discuss a way forward to get this urgently need mental health facility back in Bedford , so that my constituent do not have to travel mile to access this vital service ? I know that my hon . friend have be campaign with great passion and conviction on this issue for some time , and I be in no doubt that his integrate care board will have listen carefully to every word that he have say today . I would be pleased to meet he so that we can discuss this matter in great detail . the Prime Minister have be clear that the Government will make , unlike their predecessor , evidence - base policy . while the NHS have make some high - level progress , the figure for those wait for mental health elective care remain unacceptably high , but the data be incomplete . do the Minister agree that comprehensive datum be crucial if we be to serve the patient we care about ? I welcome my hon . friend warmly to his place . I hope he will not mind if I use this analogy , which be that you can not make a prescription unless you have the diagnosis , and you can not make policy on the hoof . we can not have the chaos , neglect and failure that we have see from the Conservatives for the past 14 year because they have not make policy base on evidence and datum . I be absolutely on board with what my hon . Friend say , and I would be more than happy to discuss it with he far at his convenience . I welcome those on the Opposition Front Bench to their role and those on the Government Front Bench to their new role . one of the thing that we do very well over the past few year on a cross - party basis be tackle the disparity between mental and physical health . since 2018 , £ 4 . 7 billion extra have go into NHS mental health service . will the Government commit to that go forward and ensure that the proportion of funding towards mental health service will increase in the come year ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , but he appear to be live in a parallel universe . we be in the midst of a mental health crisis as a result of 14 year of Tory chaos , neglect and failure . we have a plan , with 8 , 500 more mental health worker , young future walk - in hub , specialist mental health support for young people and mental health specialist deal with talk therapy . of course , we will also introduce legislation follow the Gracious Speech to deal with help people who have more severe condition . that be a plan of action with which I hope we can once again make our country proud of how we deal with this extremely serious issue . mental health pressure in the farming community be rise , with the Farm Safety Foundation survey find that 95 % of farmer under 40 agree that poor mental health be the big hide problem face the industry . will the Minister work with colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to improve access to NHS mental health service in rural area and support the continue roll - out of rural health hub ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that extremely important question . we be indeed look at that issue through our 10 - year plan for the future vision of our health service . issue around isolation and the huge pressure on what be often family business be create tremendous strain for that community . we take that seriously and will of course work with our colleague in DEFRA to address it . I call the shadow Minister . may I congratulate those on the Government Front Bench on their appointment ? I should declare that I be a former NHS consultant psychiatrist , my wife be an NHS doctor and I participate in the Wessely Mental Health Act review . while I no long have a licence to practise , I may gently correct the Minister in that it be possible to provide a prescription without a diagnosis . [ laughter . ] the opposition be pleased that the Government intend to build on the work of conservative Governments , kick - start by the former Member for Maidenhead , to reform the Mental Health Act 1983 . we will work constructively with they to make such legislation as effective , fair and compassionate as possible . with that in mind , do the Minister intend to make change to the code of practice to the Mental Health Act now so that non - statutory change and protection can be enact while the Bill work its way through Parliament ? I welcome the shadow Minister to his place and congratulate he on his appointment . it be a little bit rich to receive a question like that , give that the Conservatives have 14 year to address the issue ; I have be in this position for 16 day . if he look at the plan that we be bring forward , he will see that we have more ambition and more boldness in our plan than what we have see in the last 14 year . we will introduce legislation that will address those extremely important issue for people who have some of the more severe condition . to the shadow Minister ' s specific point on a code of practice , the first step will be to see the legislative process move forward . but , of course , we remain open to look at any solution or reform that will help to address this extremely important issue . New Hospital Programme what recent progress his Department have make on the new hospital programme . it be painfully clear that the previous Government ' s new hospital programme — they say that they would deliver 40 new hospital by 2030 — be not deliverable in that timeframe . I want to see the new hospital programme complete , but I be not prepared to offer people false hope about how soon they will benefit from the facility they deserve . that be why I have ask official as a matter of urgency to report to I on the degree to which the programme be fund along with a realistic timetable for delivery . we will not play fast and loose with the public finance , nor will we play fast and loose with people ' s trust as the previous Government do . lancaster ' s royal infirmary be at capacity . it be a victorian hospital , and I be sure it be cut - edge back then , but it be now not fit for purpose . yesterday , the joint investment strategic committee express its support for the new build scheme in Lancaster , so it will soon be on the Secretary of State ' s desk . will my right hon . friend commit to meet I and other interested local mps in north Lancashire to ensure that , after 14 year of chaos under the Conservatives , the Labour Government will deliver a new hospital for Lancaster ? and a hospital for Chorley . I be about to say , Mr Speaker , that the good people of Lancaster and Wyre will be delighted to have send my hon . friend to Parliament , because she be second only to you in collar I about a local hospital project — you be the holder of that record . there be a serious point : thank to her determined effort to collar I around the parliamentary estate , I know the particular urgency around land . a scheme will be put to I shortly , which I will consider carefully , and I will look at the programme in the round and ensure that I be able to come back to this House and to the country with promise that we can keep and that the country can afford . during the general election campaign , Labour say it be " commit to deliver the new hospital programme , include modernise the qeh at king Lynn to address its potentially dangerous RAAC " . will the Secretary of State honour that pledge , which be make to my constituent and to the staff at QEH , and approve the business case submit by the trust for the new multi - storey car park , which be a key enable project for the new hospital that we need by 2030 ? hospital with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete be at the top of my list of priority . I be extremely concerned about the dire state of the NHS estate . once again , I think that be a bit rich from Opposition Members , whose party be in government only week ago . they have a Prime Minister local to that hospital , and they do not do anything when they have the chance , but they should not worry — we will clean up their mess . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his position . I should declare that I have be work in the NHS for 23 year , currently as an NHS consultant paediatrician . I look forward to use that experience in my new role as shadow Minister of State to scrutinise the Government constructively . under the new hospital programme , the previous Government have already open six hospital to patient , with two more due to open this financial year and 18 under construction . the Government be now put that at risk by launch a review of that work , delay those project , which be vital to patient across the country . could the right hon . member please confirm when the review will be complete ? first , I welcome the hon . Lady to her new post . I must say I prefer she much more as a Back - Bench rebel than a Front - Bench spokesperson , but I have enormous respect for her year of contribution to the NHS and the experience that she bring to this House . I always take she seriously . however , on this one , once again I say to the opposition that they hand over an entirely fictional timetable and an unfunded programme . the hon . Lady might not know because she be not there immediately prior to the election , but the shadow Secretary of State , who be sit right next to she , know exactly where the body be bury in the Department , where the unexploded bomb be , and exactly the degree to which this timetable and the funding be not as set out by the previous Government . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Secretary of State and his Ministers to their role , but let I gently warn he that if he intend to run a contest on which Member can harangue he the most on crumble hospital , our 72 Liberal Democrat mps say , " Challenge accept . " under the Conservatives , the new hospital programme grind to a halt . we know the terrible story of nurse run bucket rota and all the rest . we have the bad of all world at the moment : trust such as mine in west Hertfordshire be champ at the bit to get go but can not , and be be hold back . other trust have capital fund that they want to spend but be not allow to because of outdated rule , and there be industry concern that the one , top - down , centralised approach of the Conservatives could decimate competition in that industry , when we need a thriving industry to rebuild our hospital and primary care . what be the Secretary of State ' s response to that approach ? I welcome the hon . Lady back to her place . we work constructively on the Opposition Benches together and , regardless of the size of the Government ' s majority , we intend to work constructively with she on this side of the election , too . by extension , I congratulate her colleague on their election . I have discover that I have 72 new pen pal , all sit there on the liberal Democrat Benches , and they have be write to I about a whole manner of project . my colleague and I will get back to they . the hon . Lady be right that this be not just about the new hospital programme , important though that be ; the condition of the whole NHS estate be poor . in fact , backlog maintenance , the direct cost of bring the estate into compliance with mandatory fire safety requirement and statutory safety legislation , currently stand at £ 11 . 6 billion . that be the legacy of the last Conservative Government . Neonatal Care : Parental Accommodation if he will take step to help increase the number of accommodation unit available for parent whose baby have be admit to neonatal care unit . I congratulate my hon . friend on her re - election and thank she for raise this important issue . it be not right that three out of four parent be not able to stay with their critically ill baby overnight at such an important point in that new relationship . NHS England recently conclude a review of neonatal estate . it be in the early stage of analyse the finding , which will be use to inform the next step . we be all determined to support parent to be involve in every aspect of their baby ' s care . I congratulate my right hon . and hon . friend on their re - election and on take their place . recent research from the charity Bliss show that when a baby receive neonatal care , their parent be routinely expect to leave they in hospital overnight for week or even month at a time . its research find that for every 10 baby who need to stay overnight in neonatal care , there be only one room available for a parent to stay with they . how will the Minister ensure that the exist guidance about facility for family be follow , and how will she ensure that trust can access the resource they need to stop the separation of baby and their parent ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the separation of baby and their parent at that time be not acceptable , and about the shocking state of the estate , as we have just hear . we will look at the finding of the NHS review very quickly , and I will be happy to get back to she on those specific point . I thank the Minister for her answer . this issue be clearly not just about accommodation ; it be also about provide physical and emotional help for mother who have be through traumatic circumstance , emotionally and physically . what will be do along those line to ensure that mother and baby have all the help they need ? the hon . Gentleman make a really important point about mental health support in that critical period . we will absolutely make sure that be look at . Health and Social Care Reform whether he plan to hold discussion with NHS staff and patient on his plan for reform NHS health and social care service . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Banbury — word I do not think I would ever say — and welcome he to his place . the answer to his question be yes . we do not just want to discuss with patient and staff ; we want they to help shape the 10 - year plan for the next decade of reform , which will take our NHS from the bad crisis in its history and make it fit for the future . social care also need to change . we will work with care worker and care user to build consensus for and shape a new national care service . do the Minister agree that the voice of frontline staff , whether in hospital such as the Horton general hospital in Banbury or carer like my mum , be still often ignore when it come to whistleblowe ? more worryingly , those voice be silence by threat to report they to regulatory body . do he agree that we need to level the field of accountability for manager who ignore whistleblower , and that there should be a regulatory body with oversight of medical manager ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we have previously say that bank manager be more regulated than nhs manager . this Labour Government will pursue an agenda of great accountability , transparency and candour when it come to those make managerial and executive decision in our national health service . in integrate health and social care it be vital to take the staff component along with you . it be also vital to have sufficient funding . we integrate health and social care in Scotland in 2012 and it have be a difficult road , but health in Scotland be fund £ 323 per head more than it be in England . will the Minister commit to put his hand in his pocket and make sure english people enjoy the same health funding as people in Scotland ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman back to the House , but I politely say to he that he need to be a little bit patient . there will be some announcement in the near future on this Government ' s plan for social care . he should rest assure that we on the Labour Benches understand the integration agenda . we understand the need to fix both the NHS and social care , and this Labour Government will do that . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the Minister and his Front - Bench colleague on their appointment . I welcome the suggestion that the Government be consider the possibility of a royal commission on social care and intend to address the issue on a cross - party basis , but that will take time . can the Minister therefore confirm that , as be suggest during the election campaign , the Government will take forward the Dilnot reform , and in particular that they will introduce a cap on social care cost , as be plan by the previous Government ? it be , of course , the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government who kick the can down the road on these issue . they allow the system to spend the transformation money that have be provide precisely for the purpose of the Dilnot reform on fix their break national health service . he should just be a little bit patient , as we will announce our proposal for social care shortly . he should rest assure that , as I have say to he before , this Labour Government be determined to fix both the broken NHS and the broken social care system that we inherit from 14 year of Tory failure . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats speak about care a great deal during the general election campaign . at the heart of our plan be our pledge to introduce free personal care . will minister please confirm whether they intend to open cross - party talk and , if so , whether free personal care will be on the table as one potential option ? I thank the hon . Lady for the way in which the Liberal Democrats approach the issue of health and social care during the election campaign . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have already say , we will work with all in the House who want to fix our break health and social care system . of course we will work collegiately across party , and of course all issue relate to how we fix our broken social care system will be discuss during those cross - party deliberation . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . our NHS be break . this government have be honest about the problem we face because we be serious about fix they , and we have not waste a moment . we have appoint Lord Darzi to carry out an independent investigation of the state of our NHS , we be reset the relationship with junior doctor with negotiation start today , and we be lay the foundation for the delivery of 40 , 000 more appointment a week to cut waiting list . the Gracious Speech kick - start a decade of national renewal , with modernisation of the Mental Health Act as well as the smoking reform , which will ensure that this generation of young people be the first smoke - free generation , and will be the first step towards ensure that that generation be the healthy in history . during their free NHS 40 - plus health check , woman be assess for condition that may affect they as they grow old , but menopause be not include . to include it would be cost - neutral and would not only help million of woman to recognise the symptom , but prevent needless gp appointment when those symptom start to develop . along with Menopause Mandate , I have be campaign tirelessly on this issue . will the Secretary of State please look into it as a matter of urgency ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend back in the House . she campaign relentlessly on this vital issue , and it would be very risky for I to do anything other than agree to meet she , because I share her view that progress need to be make on it . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I welcome the Secretary of State and his ministerial team to their place , and wish they well in their endeavour ? with your indulgence , Mr Speaker , I should also place on the record my thank to my superb team of former Ministers , to those in the private office and to official in the Department for their hard work and support , as well as thank the doctor , nurse and social care and health professional with whom I have have the pleasure of working . now , to business . in opposition , the Secretary of State describe the 35 % pay rise demand by the junior doctor committee as " reasonable ' . what he do not tell the public be that this single trade union demand would cost an additional £ 3 billion , let alone the impact on other public sector worker . will he ask the Chancellor to raise taxis , or will she ask he to cut patient service to pay for it ? may I welcome the shadow Secretary of State to her new position ? she have behave in her typically graceful and decent way . I enjoy work with she on that basis , and will continue to do so . although , I must confess that when I hear about the " abominable " behaviour of the shadow Health Secretary , I think , " what on earth have I do now ? " then I remember that our role have swap , and that it be not I they be refer to . what I say be that the doctor be make a reasonable case that their pay have not keep in line with inflation , but we be clear before the election that 35 % be not a figure we could afford . we be negotiate with junior doctor in good faith to agree on a settlement that we can deliver and that the country can afford . I be afraid I do not like it when Secretaries of State do not answer question , and I be sorry to say that the right hon . Gentleman give another non - answer , as have be the case for those on the Government Front Bench . I have a question that I hope he will be able to answer . the final act of the Conservative Government be to protect child and young people by ban private clinic from sell puberty blocker to young people question their gender . will the right hon . Gentleman confirm that he will resist the voice of opposition on the Benches behind he and implement in full all of Dr Cass ' s recommendation , include exercise " extreme caution " , as she say , in the use of cross - sex hormone in young people ? they and their parent deserve certainty from this Government . obviously , there be a judicial review of the former Secretary of State ' s decision , which I be defend . the matter be sub judice , so I will steer clear of it . to go back to first principle , we be wholeheartedly committed to the full implementation of the Cass review , which will deliver material improvement in the wellbeing , safety and dignity of trans people of all age . I think that be important . I want to reassure LGBT + community across the country , particularly the trans community , that this Government seek a very different relationship with they . I look at the rise hate crime statistic and trans people ' s struggle to access healthcare , and I look at their desire to live freely , equally and with dignity . that be what we will work with they to deliver . order . I understand that today be a new start with Question Time , but we have to be short and speedy . that be the whole idea of oral question , because otherwise member be not go to get in . after 14 year of conservative mismanagement of our NHS , the waiting list at Southampton general hospital be close to 60 , 000 . I welcome my hon . friend ' s commitment and plan to bring down waiting list , but can she also outline what support will be offer to those wait for treatment , many of whom be in pain , as we tackle the shameful backlog we inherit ? my hon . friend make an excellent point about the stress that people face when wait , and we have talk about the disaster of the past 14 year . People with potentially deteriorate condition be wait , and we absolutely need to address this issue as part of our work to reduce waiting list . the Government have announce ambitious house building target but , as far as I could tell , the Labour party manifesto be silent on the GP estate upgrade . do the Secretary of State agree that the conservative policy of rebuild or refurbish 250 gp surgery in England be a sensible policy to implement ? I be proud that the Deputy Prime Minister will be deliver the commitment to build 1 . 5 million new home . it be absolutely vital that the infrastructure need be deliver alongside those new home , and we and other colleague across Government will be work very closely with the Deputy Prime Minister to make sure that the social infrastructure be also provide . last week , worthe hospital come close to have to consider downgrade its maternity service due to a shortage of specialist neonatal nurse and midwife . will the Minister please update the House on the Government ' s plan to build an nhs that be fit for the future , include by address staffing shortage ? I welcome my hon . friend to the House . he make an incredibly important point about this very stressful time , particularly for woman , in his area . we will listen to woman and deliver evidence - base improvement to make maternity and neonatal service safe and more equitable for woman and their baby , and we have commit to deliver the long - term workforce plan . in one month alone at the West Hertfordshire teaching hospital trust , we lose 843 day because of the social care backlog . the burden of that cost be often take up by family and individual , which impact not only on they , but on the rest of our NHS healthcare . I welcome the talk about work together across party , but would the Secretary of State also consider introduce great support for unpaid carer , include pay carer leave and a statutory guarantee of regular respite break ? I warmly welcome the hon . member to her place . she be absolutely right to raise the plight of unpaid family carer . they be part of the team , as far as this Government be concern , so as we set out our 10 - year plan for social care as part of our ambition to build the national care service , we will make sure that unpaid family carer be very much at the centre of our thinking , in no small part thank to her representation . the keep the Horton General campaign in my constituency have recently catalogue the poor experience of ten of Banbury - base mother who give birth at the John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford . will the Secretary of State or a member of his team meet I to discuss these concern report of poor maternity care ? of all the issue that keep I awake at night , maternity safety be top of the list . we have already hear about the staffing shortage and the action we will take to address that , but I also want to reassure people that , as we build our 10 - year plan for the NHS , patient voice , include those of recent and expectant mother , will be part of that process . during the election campaign the Prime Minister come to Basingstoke on a visit and specifically promise to replace Basingstoke hospital by 2030 . can we rely on that promise ? I would not rely on anything the former Prime Minister say — [ interruption . ] oh , our Prime Minister ? I think the right hon . Gentleman be talk about the former Prime Minister . in that case , I can reassure he that we be absolutely committed to the new hospital programme . on the budget and the timescale , as I have say , we will come forward with an honest appraisal of what we have inherit from the last government and what we will be able to deliver within reasonable timescale . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his position . yesterday ' s NHS datum show that we have among the high incidence of dementia in the world , with something like 500 , 000 case just in England . I appreciate that this be early day , 16 day in , but do the Minister have any idea why that may be , and what can be do about it ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and welcome he to his place . this issue be personal for I , and I be sure it be for many other across this House . a number of potential new disease - modify drug for Alzheimer ' s be in the pipeline , include lecanemab and donanemab . we be committed to ensure that clinically effective and cost - effective medicine reach patient in a timely and safe way . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be appraise lecanemab and donanemab to determine whether they will be make available in the NHS . nearly 10 child a month die from brain tumour , and I know that the public health Minister take this issue seriously . he be familiar with the work of the Brain Tumour Charity ' s HeadSmart campaign . will he agree to meet I and my fierce campaigner constituent Sacha Langton - Gilks , who lose her son to a brain tumour , to discuss how NHS England could be persuade to do more to inform and educate parent to identify the symptom , so that collectively we can reduce the number of death ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that question . he know that I meet his constituent when I be a shadow public health Minister , and I can confirm that I be more than happy to meet he and his constituent now that I have drop the " shadow " . I be sure the whole House will want to celebrate the fact that the NHS be safe in Labour hand once again . specifically in the Royal Free trust area , which cover the community that I now have the honour of be the MP for — Chipping Barnet in North London — there be 100 , 000 people on the NHS waiting list , so what step will the Minister take to reduce the waiting list in place such as mine so that we can see more people get the treatment and support that they need from the NHS ? I be delighted to welcome my hon . friend to his place . I be personally grateful to the Royal Free hospital for save my life when I go through kidney cancer . nhs waiting list stand at 7 . 6 million , which be still rise as this Government take office . our 40 , 000 extra appointment , scan and procedure and our doubling of the number of diagnostic scanner will make a real difference to get that backlog down to where it should be . during the general election campaign , the Health Secretary visit King ' s Mill hospital in Ashfield , and I be sure that help I to get re - elect . king ' s Mill be build on a private finance initiative deal by the last Labour Government and be go to cost £ 3 billion for a £ 300 million hospital . will the Secretary of State please now assure I and the people of Ashfield that this will never happen again ? despite my good effort , the hon . Gentleman be back . I congratulate he through gritted tooth . I be very impressed by what I see at King ' s Mill hospital , and I be proud of the last Labour Government ' s record of deliver the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history . as I say during the election campaign , we will build on that success and learn from some of our shortcoming , too . I welcome the honesty and urgency of review the new - build hospital programme . resident in Uxbridge and South Ruislip be sick and tired after 14 year of broken promise on a new hospital . board minute have reveal that no business case be agree under the last government . no funding be release for a new hospital , and not a brick have be lay . do my right hon . friend agree that urgent investment be need at Hillingdon hospital ? will he come back to the hospital , a year later , to visit staff and discuss their plan ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . well late than never , as they say . I have be to Hillingdon hospital , which have amazing staff and appal building . that be why the people of Hillingdon , and people right across the country , deserve honesty , clarity and certainty about the new hospital programme . this government will provide it and stick to it . do the Secretary of State agree that hand over power to the World Health Organisation , undermine the UK ' s ability to make its own sovereign decision , would be unacceptable ? the World Health Organisation be an intergovernmental arrangement . it be of vital importance that , first and foremost , we agree only to thing that be in our national interest , but we should not lose sight of the fact that there be lot of thing that we need to do together in pursuit of our national interest , from tackle antimicrobial resistance to prevent future pandemic threat . that be exactly what we will do . I congratulate the Secretary of State and welcome he to his post . eye healthcare service be in crisis due to the Tories break our NHS . ophthalmology be the busy out - patient service , make up nearly 10 % of the entire waiting list . my national eye health strategy will seek to tackle some of these issue , so will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can tackle the eye healthcare emergency ? I would be delighted to do that . as my hon . friend know , we visit specsaver during the election campaign . there be lot of high street optician , and they can make a real difference to cut the backlog . the Conservatives should have go to Specsavers , and this Government will . my constituent have struggle to get pre - diagnosis adhd and autism support for their young daughter . we can not diagnose child at a very young age , but that do not mean that family do not need help . can the Minister confirm what engagement he will have with support organisation such as the National Autistic Society to ensure that good practice mean that family be not struggle for support ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . she raise a vital issue . we have a plan for improve mental health service , include 8 , 500 more mental health worker . autism be , of course , a vital part of that , and I will be more than happy to meet she to discuss far how we might be able to take it forward . debate on the Address [ 5th day ] Debate resume ( Order , 22 July ) Question again propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . Immigration and Home Affairs I inform the House that I have select amendment ( l ) in the name of the Leader of the Opposition , which will be move at the start of the debate , and amendment ( d ) , in the name of Stephen Flynn , and ( k ) , in the name of Ed Davey , which will be move at the end of the debate . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I beg to move amendment l , at the end of the question to add : " but respectfully regret that the Gracious Speech do not commit to boost defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 with a fully fund plan , fail to include measure that provide an adequate deterrent to migrant cross the channel illegally , fail to mention rural community , farming and fishing , do not include a legally bind target to enhance the UK ' s food security or a commitment to increase the UK - wide agriculture budget by £ 1 billion over the course of the Parliament , introduce new burden on business without sufficient measure to support they , fail to set out a concrete plan to tackle the unsustainable post - covid rise in the welfare bill , do not adequately protect family finance and the UK ' s energy security in the move to net zero , and fail to provide adequate protection for pensioner and work people to keep more of the money they have work hard for . " yesterday , at the Dispatch Box , I welcome the Home Secretary to her role , and I now take the opportunity to congratulate the wide ministerial team who work with she . they will have inherit a hard - work team of civil servant dedicate to the protection of this country and the people within it . however , I be sad that the hon . member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) have not make the transition from shadow immigration Minister to immigration Minister . his contribution be a great loss to the conservative party . with the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) in her new ministerial role , I be sure the Clerks of the Home Affairs Committee will be look forward to arrange her first session promptly and will , like I , be closely monitor how quickly her new boss fully implement all the recommendation of the Committee she formerly chair . while I do not have time to mention each of the new ministerial team individually , I want to pay tribute to the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . she know I plan to single she out and I do not apologise for do so ; I think that it be a very good appointment and she be well suited to her role as parliamentary Under - Secretary of State with responsibility for victim and safeguarding . she know that tackle violence against woman and girl be a priority for I . we have previously share the stage at event in the House discuss that subject . I genuinely look forward to work with she and contribute in any way I can to her success in this incredibly important area of public policy . she have highlight some of the crucial work that this place can do in bring to the attention of the country and the wide world the continue plight of too many woman . the election highlight the important work of the Home Office in defend democracy . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , the former security Minister , for his work with the defend democracy taskforce . again , that be an area where we will seek to be a constructive opposition . I be disgusted to see how the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley and many other , mostly female , colleague and candidate be treat during the general election campaign . no one who care for democracy , irrespective of their party affiliation , should be willing to tolerate that . the defend democracy taskforce continue to have incredibly important and urgent work to do . we should continue to work together , as we do when our role be reverse , to root out violence and intimidation , and to ensure that candidate and member can vote with their conscience and campaign with their heart , free from intimidation or threat . while the Prime Minister have be enjoy his honeymoon period at NATO and welcome visitor to the European Political Community event at Blenheim Palace , which be very well organise by this Government ' s predecessor in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the same honeymoon period have sadly not be afford to the Home Secretary . member will all be familiar with the seven day of creation ; the new Home Secretary have manage seven day of destruction . on day one , she cancel the partnership with Rwanda , take away the deterrent that the National Crime Agency say we need in order to break the business model of people smuggle gang . in do so , on day two , she create a diplomatic row with Rwanda , whose Ministers sadly have to read about the Government ' s decision in the british medium , rather than receive direct communication from the Government . that be a level of diplomatic indecency that will cast a shadow over the relationship not just with that country , but with many other . on day three , the Home Secretary announce an effective amnesty for ten of thousand of people who arrive here illegally . we say that the incoming Labour Government would do that . they promise that they would not , yet that be exactly what they do . on day four , she start work on get back into the EU through the back door by negotiate to take more migrant from the continent . on day five , a Labour Government Minister go on national radio to advocate the relaxing of visa rule from the EU , before be slap down for say the quiet bit out loud . on day six , Home Office figure release by the Government show that the visa curb that I put in place when I become Home Secretary have cut migration by 48 % since last June — she can thank I for that later . on the seventh day , the Home Secretary probably try to get some rest , but she will now know what I have long know , which be that , as Home Secretary , there be not the luxury of that day of rest . therefore , despite a terrible first week of weather to bring in the new Labour Government , we see almost 500 asylum seeker arrive on small boat . as of today — will the right hon . member give way ? the Home Secretary will be make a speech in due course . as I say , almost 500 asylum seeker arrive in the first week , and , as of today , more than 2 , 000 asylum seeker have arrive in small boat since Labour take office . the second week at work be not much well . will the shadow Secretary of State give way ? the right hon . Member have the opportunity to speak in a moment . we have see riot in her back garden , on the street of Leeds , and police officer , clearly not confident that they will enjoy her support , have to take a backseat . like so much of what be say ahead of this general election , " take back our street " be clearly just a labour slogan . we then see Neil Basu , a very highly respected former police officer , with whom I work when I be on the Metropolitan Police Authority , and General Stuart Skeates , a senior official at the Home Office , with whom I work in a former life as well as when I be Home Secretary , rule themselves out of leadership of the new so - call border security command . they do so , I be sure , because they know what we know , which be that that be little more than a fig leaf to hide the fact that the Labour Government be do less on migration and hope to achieve more . the reality , as everybody include the people smuggler know , be that the small boat problem be only go to get bad under Labour . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for give way . it be a shame to puncture his fantasy and bring he down to the real world in which he and his party treble net migration and leave we with the high level of spring boat crossing on record . perhaps he can answer just one factual question . he have spend £ 700 million over two and a half year run the Rwanda scheme ; can he tell we how many asylum seeker he have send ? as I say on the radio this morning , if the right hon . Lady be go to pluck figure out of the air , she should avoid nice round number , because it be a bit of a giveaway . she will know that we bring people into detention and that we have charter flight . the fact that the new Government scrap the scheme and , with a degree of diplomatic discourtesy , do not even — [ interruption . ] Labour Members can groan from their Benches , but they will get use to the fact that we can not treat international partner in this way . our relationship with Rwanda be enter into in good faith by both party . the Rwandans discover that the incoming Government be tear up that bilateral relationship in the page of the british medium . the Home Secretary should learn that her new Foreign Secretary should have have the diplomatic courtesy at least to pick up the phone to his opposite number in Rwanda to explain what be go to happen before they read about it in the british press . she and I both know that her Government would not have act with that level of vile discourtesy have that partner be a european country . [ interruption . ] Labour member can groan all they like , but we all know that be true . the simple fact of the matter be that the new border security command replicate in all respect the work of the small boat operational command . it take almost the whole general election campaign before the right hon . Lady attempt to clarify the role . we still have very little clarity on the division of labour between the so - call new border security command and the small boat operational command . yesterday , at the Dispatch Box , she try to imply that there have be no return under the Conservative Government , but let I put some fact and figure on the record . last year , we return more than 25 , 000 people to their home country , include almost 4 , 000 foreign national offender , in order to keep ourselves safe — foreign national offender for whom , I would remind the House , her Prime Minister in his former guise fight tooth and nail to prevent be deport . voluntary and enforce return be both up by more than two third , at their high level for five year — operation do by our immigration enforcement official , which sound a lot like a return unit to I . I be not sure what the right hon . Lady be do while in opposition , but she might be surprised to learn that we be indeed smash the gang , and we be make sure that people be arrest and incarcerate . last year , we smash almost 100 criminal gang through our law enforcement agency . I remind the House that Labour Members vote against the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , which be the legislation that we have be use to incarcerate those people smuggler . they vote against that legislation . labour , in government , be now so worried about their continue reputation for be and for look weak on immigration that they feel the need to announce a raft of thing to sound tough which basically already exist . they announce the border security command , even though there be already a small boat operational command . they announce a return unit , even though immigration enforcement already do that . what will they announce next ? what will they invent — the RAF ? I look forward to see what function be to be replicate . we will look at legislation when it come forward but , as I have discuss , the Government already have the tool they need , and as long as they do not undermine their own effort by scrap more thing , we might see an opportunity for they to reduce number , in large part because we pass the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . the right hon . Lady have tool at her disposal . on legal migration , I remember come to the Government Dispatch Box in December last year and present to the House a series of visa curb to cut net migration . with our measure , 300 , 000 people who come here last year would no long have the right to come , reduce migration by a record amount . already the data be show that , because of the action I take as Home Secretary , visa application be down by 48 % compare with June last . on the current trajectory , net migration be set to halve in the next 12 month , thank to the action that I take — action oppose by the Labour party at the time . the labour manifesto say that net migration would come down , but not by how much . as I say , the first 50 % of that reduction be because of action I take . perhaps , in her speech , the right hon . Lady can confirm how much far than that 50 % she envisage bring net migration down . labour talk tough ahead of the election about clamp down on employer bring in foreign worker , but those plan have apparently now be shelve , as we see nothing of they in the King ' s Speech and have not hear anything more about they . on policing and crime , I be delighted to have my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) as shadow Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime . there be many brilliant thing about Stockton , a place I have visit and enjoy , and he be of course one of those wonderful thing . I welcome the plan set out in the King ' s Speech for a crime and police Bill to tackle issue such as antisocial behaviour , retail crime and knife crime and to drive up standard in the police force . of course I welcome they , because those be issue that I put forward when I be Home Secretary . the Government can therefore count on our general support for these measure , if they bring forward detailed proposal that properly address the issue . I really hope that the right hon . Lady have more success than I have get her colleague , the Mayor of London , to focus on bring down violent crime in our capital city . we will of course scrutinise the legislation alongside the victim , court and public protection Bill . over the previous Parliament , it be the conservative party that put 20 , 000 new police officer on the street . at the election , we promise to hire an additional 8 , 000 full - time , fully warrant police officer to protect our neighbourhood . during the general election campaign , the Labour party make no such commitment , limit their aspiration to only 3 , 000 full - time , fully warrant officer . I hope that they will match our commitment to 8 , 000 . the shadow Secretary of State should also remember that the Labour party oppose our measure for bring in 20 , 000 extra police , and during the general election campaign it commit to have 13 , 000 extra neighbourhood officer , which many police and crime commissioner have say can not be fund , because they be not clear how they be to be fund . be it not the case that the conservative party have a track record of deliver on more policing , and the Government have no idea whatsoever ? I be very proud of the fact that in many part of the country , include my county of Essex , there be now more warrant police officer than at any time in the force ' s history — in sharp contrast to labour - run London , where the Conservative Government put money on the table to recruit extra metropolitan police officer and the Labour Mayor of London have spectacularly fail to recruit those officer , have not back officer when they say they need to do more stop and search , and have see knife crime accelerate , distort the whole national picture . I really hope that the right hon . Lady take this seriously . she can chuckle all she like , but this be about kid get stab on the street of London , and she should take this more seriously . [ interruption . ] she should recognise that we introduce tough sentence under the Public Order Act 2023 to clamp down on disruptive protest — the benefit of which we have already see this week with the jailing of just stop oil protester — in addition to plan to grant the police furth power to clamp down on protest that go too far and disrupt the life of people around this country . the shadow Home Secretary know he should not make such disgraceful , unfounded allegation about my response to knife crime . he know that I have meet family right across the country who be devastate by knife crime , include in town and small community and suburb where this terrible crime be go up . his party , when in government , repeatedly fail to ban serious weapon on our street . will he now support this party and this government when we bring in the ban on ninja sword and dangerous machete that he should have bring in long ago ? I make the observation that , while I be talk about young people get stab , the right hon . Lady be chat and chuckle with her colleague on the Front Bench . that be a statement of fact . the point be that we have get a grip of crime , but in the part of the country control by Labour police and crime commissioner , include London , that be sadly not the case . I have a lot of respect for the right hon . Gentleman , but he will know from his tenure as Home Secretary that those sort of crime — stabbing and shooting — be happen all across the country , and not just in city ; they be happen in town such as Warwick and Leamington , where we have have someone shoot dead through drug dealing , many people stab maliciously and some kill . the reality be that under his watch over the last 14 year we have see a degradation of the number of police officer on our street and rise knife crime . do he not accept that ? the figure speak for themselves . People will be able to see the level of crime , include violent crime , in Conservative - run part of the country , and compare they with those in labour - run part of the country . the figure be in the public domain . anyone can check they . unfortunately , it appear that the Government have not see fit to lay out their plan to address the issue of violent , aggressive , intimidatory or disruptive protest . for the safety of our street , and for the confidence of the officer who need to police protest , I hope that the Government do the right thing and change that vacuum where policy should be . under conservative leadership , we announce a raft of change to support victim of domestic abuse , put more abuser under management of the police and under increasingly strict arrangement by designate violence against woman and girl as a national policing priority — a national threat on a par with the threat of terrorism . as I have say , the Home Secretary and her Front - Bench colleague should know that I will always give my wholehearte support to action they take to protect woman and girl . we have make improvement through Operation Soteria , change the way the investigatory system operate to ensure that victim of rape and serious sexual assault can get justice and provide specialist training for officer . we be commit to ensure that rape victim feel confident to come forward to report , because we know the sad truth that , even with the good work of Operation Soteria , far too few people come forward . we want to encourage they to do so , and we will support the Government in any action they take in this area . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for give way on that important point . he will recognise that one issue we have all campaign on be the fact that many of those woman do not come forward because they have no trust in the police . a key issue we have be work on be get senior officer to suspend those police officer who be find guilty of wrongdoing . do he agree that we need to make sure that that work now , so that those woman can have the confidence to come forward , include where those allegation be against other police officer ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right ; although it do not make its way through all its parliamentary stage , the proposal that we put in the Criminal Justice Bill strengthen the accountability framework for officer and strengthen police leadership to take action . again , I hope that the Government will continue that incredibly important work , and once again I put on record my willingness to support they in ensure that the disciplinary practice within police give woman the confidence to come forward . be it not true that the net number of police be low after 14 year of Tory Government ? there have be a net loss to policing . do the shadow Home Secretary agree that the reason we have not hit our number in London for the Met Police be that we be in special measure , and there need to be caution over the police who be recruit ? we need to ensure there be good police officer , so it be about quality , not just quantity . I disagree with the hon . Lady ' s assessment of police number . that do not accord with the figure that I have see . police number be up , and we have plan to recruit even more . I get the party loyalty towards the Mayor of London , but the simple fact of the matter be that all police force have to ensure that there be vet procedure in place . the vetting procedure for the Metropolitan Police be no more onerous than for other force around the country , yet many other police force , include my own , have record number of police officer . the Metropolitan Police be the well - fund police force per capita in the country , and yet , with all the freedom that the Mayor of London have and with all the money that be put on the table , he have fail to recruit the police officer that the capital city need . that have an impact not just on people who live and work in London , but on visitor and people who travel through it . in a constantly evolve criminal landscape , we deliver the online fraud charter . it be a world - first agreement , with 12 of the big tech company as signatory , proactively to block and remove fraudulent content from their platform . Facebook , Instagram and Amazon be among those key signatory . we introduce the National Security Act 2023 and the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 , and we proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir , Terrorgram and the Wagner Group , to make promotion and membership of those organisation illegal . to conclude , the right hon . Lady have a tough job . Home Secretary will always be a tough job . however , during our time in government we ensure that she have more police officer at her disposal , an effective small boat operational command , an effective immigration enforcement command and a suite of legislation to allow she to match the rhetoric of the campaign to her action in government . the Home Secretary have inherit fall meet migration figure , a grow economy and a large parliamentary majority to ensure she get her business through the House . while we will be critical when the Government make mistake and will seek to ensure that they do the right thing , we all have a desire for her Department to succeed and indeed an interest in its do so . on that point , I wish she the very good of luck . I welcome everybody to the final day of the King ' s Speech debate . I also welcome the shadow Home Secretary ' s word about the excellent ministerial team that we now have in the Home Office , and his continued support for the defend democracy taskforce , which I know he and his shadow Security Minister , the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , take immensely seriously when they be in government . I can tell the House that we will be meet later this week , our first meeting after the election , to review some of the issue that I know have affect member right across the country . we be extremely serious about what happen during the election and how we all need to respond and to stand up for our democracy . to listen to the shadow Home Secretary , no one would think he have just spectacularly lose a general election ; apparently under the conservative we have just all have it so good for such a long period of time . however , I be glad to see he enjoy opposition so much . long may it continue ! this may be the final day of the King ' s Speech debate , but of course it be only the beginning of the Tory leadership husting . the shadow Home Secretary ' s name be on the list , and we look forward to his launch , maybe late this week — it be very exciting . as someone who have unsuccessfully stand for their party ' s leadership in the past , I do have some sympathy with his predicament . it be not just that he be only the bookie ' fifth favourite ; he be not even the lead candidate from Essex , or even the lead candidate from his shadow Home Office team . I have some bad news for both the shadow Home Secretary and the shadow Security Minister , the right hon . member for Tonbridge . their chance have be deal a hammer blow by that strategic brain and deputy leader of the Conservative party , the right hon . member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) , who be elect at the same time as they in 2015 . when ask who the star of his generation be , he say : " there ' s only two people from my generation that I could see lead the conservative party : Rishi Sunak or Vicky Atkins . " how disappointing be that ? discount by the great election guru of the Conservative party before they have even start . rise — I will give way on that subject . just for expectation management , may I ask when the Home Secretary will start talk about her portfolio ? the shadow Home Secretary spend his entire speech not talk about any of the challenge that the country face but simply play to the conservative Back Benches with a fantasy leadership application speech . what be it about these former Home Secretaries and Ministers ? apparently , of the last seven Home Office Ministers in Cabinet , six of they be run . we have the previous Home Secretary , the Home Secretary before that and the Home Secretary but one before that — the same person , strangely , because , never forget , it be possible to be sack from the same job twice — plus the Home Secretary before that , the former Security Minister and the former Immigration Minister . they have quite a record between they : they have treble net migration , let boat crossing hit a record high this spring , decimate neighbourhood police — there be 10 , 00 few neighbourhood police and police community support officer on our street — let record number of crime go unsolved , bust the Home Office budget by billion , and , yes , spend £ 700 million send just four volunteer to Rwanda . if they be now line up to do to the Tory party what they have already do to the Home Office and the country , well , frankly , they deserve each other . every one of they champion that policy on Rwanda — although the shadow Home Secretary , to be fair to he , do notoriously describe it as " batshit " crazy . well , maybe that be what someone need to be to stand for Tory leader right now . [ interruption . ] we have hear that the Conservatives be go to run this contest until November . we have five month — [ interruption . ] oh , do the shadow Home Secretary want to deny have ever describe the Rwanda programme and development partnership as " batshit " ? I will give way to he if he would like to respond . if the right hon . Lady can say when , where and to whom that be say , carry on . the right hon . Gentleman be the one who say it , so he be the one who will know . if he want to deny that he ever say it , I will not say it again — honestly — but I think that he protest a little too much with this sort of wriggling . he would not do very well under interrogation . we have hear today that the leadership contest will run until November . we have five month of this . there be hardly any Tory mps here because they be all off do their little chat and meeting . it be like a cross between " Love Island " and the jungle . Rob and Suella have break up , and now John have go off with Kemi . everyone be look over their shoulder for snake and rat . apparently somebody have have a nervous breakdown , and that be probably all of their Back Benchers , dread get a little text say that another candidate want a chat . we can see it . look at they all . they be all say , " I be a Tory MP . get I out of here . " that be exactly what our Labour mp have just do : they have get a lot of Tory mp out of here because the country be cry out for change — for what the Prime Minister have describe as a decade of national renewal on our economy , our public service and our relationship with the world , and in politic itself , by bring politic back into public service again . I say to all hon . member , on my side and on the Opposition Benches , that I will work with everyone to restore Britain ' s sense of security , public safety on our street , secure border , and confidence in our police and criminal justice system . yes , I will repeatedly challenge the Conservatives on the legacy that they have leave we , because the damage be serious , and I think that they have be hugely reckless with the safety of our country . yes , the approach and value of our party may be different , but I think that there be important area where we should be able to come together to bring change in the interest of our country , our community and our security , because that be what public service mean . that be what this Labour Government be determined to do . we have set out in the King ' s Speech three Home Office Bills on crime and policing , border and asylum , and security . I will cover each issue in turn , start with safety on our street and confidence in the police and the criminal justice system . everyone will have , fresh in their mind , the concern raise by constituent during the election campaign . I fear that , at a time when we have 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police and pcso , confidence in policing have drop . street crime and knife crime be surge in town and suburb — not just in our city — and shoplifting have become an epidemic . those be the kind of crime that really affect how people live in their own community , yet too little be be do . I congratulate the right hon . Lady on her new position . before the election be call , we have succeed in a cross - party campaign to make cuckoo a criminal offence in the Criminal Justice Bill , which then sadly fall . I notice that in the crime and police Bill , there be no mention at all of cuckooing . do she support the idea of make cuckooing — use the home of the most vulnerable in society for criminal behaviour — a criminal offence ? if so , will she commit to introduce that process again ? she would have my support , and I can guarantee that she would have the support of the previous Government , because I tell they so at the time . over to she . the right hon . member raise an immensely important point , which we support . I be happy to talk to he far , or he can talk to the Minister with responsibility for victim and safeguarding , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . a series of issue include in the Criminal Justice Bill , which fall when the election be call , have cross - party support and need to be take forward . I congratulate the right hon . Lady on her appointment . one issue that be agree on a cross - party basis be the campaign that we lead on abolish the Vagrancy Act 1824 . we conclude that that change would be beneficial for homeless people because they would no long face arrest and would be provide with assistance . will she commit , on behalf of the Government , to introduce that change as part of the legislation ? the hon . Member make an important point — there be a lot of cross - party agreement . there be also area where the last government ' s attempt to respond end up provoke a lot of disagreement and where we have different view . I suggest that he discuss the detail far with the new Home Office Ministers , because we take the matter seriously but want to ensure that we get it right and do not make the error that the previous Government make in the detail of their response . as well as the issue around community and town centre crime , we have have an important report from the police today warn that violence against woman and girl be " a national emergency " that have not be take seriously for far too long . we have record level — 90 % — of crime go unsolved . the criminal justice system and prison be be push into crisis . too many people have the feeling that nothing be do and no one will come . we can not go on like that . for we in the Labour party , this be root in our value . security be the bedrock of opportunity . family can not prosper and get on in life if they do not feel safe . community can not be strong if they do not feel secure . a nation can not thrive if it be under threat . respect for each other and the rule of law underpin who we be as a country ; they be how we sustain our democracy and our sense of justice and fairness . too often , those thing have feel undermined . that be why we have make safe street one of the five central mission of this Labour Government — a mission to restore and rebuild neighbourhood policing , to restore trust and confidence in police and the criminal justice system , and to deliver our unprecedented ambition of halve serious violence within a decade . that be a hugely ambitious mission : halve serious violence mean halve knife crime and violence against woman and girl over the next 10 year . I know that will be extremely difficult , but I ask everyone to be part of it , because it be so important and we should all be try to keep people safe . I welcome the Home Secretary to her place , and I know that she have campaign on this really important area for many year . she talk about all of we be involve in this mission . do she agree that the people who be work with these community on the ground — youth worker , independent domestic violence advocate , doctor in A & e unit , school employee and teacher — all need to be involve in this conversation ? many of those people see what be happen before the authority do , and it be vital that they be part of this national conversation . my hon . friend be exactly right . this have to be a mission for all of we — it be not just about what the Home Office do , although we want the Home Office to do so much more in this area . it be not just about what the government do ; it have to be about all of we . it have to be about recognise that for generation after generation , people have just shrug their shoulder about unacceptable violence against woman and girl . it have just be see as normal — just one of those thing that happen — when actually , we should not stand for it . this be an opportunity for change , and to bring everyone together to make that change . my hon . friend be absolutely right that those who be on the frontline , see that violence in practice , be often also those who know what need to be do . as part of the new crime and police Bill , we will bring forward measure to tackle violence against woman and girl . that include make sure that we have specialist rape and sexual assault unit in every police force and specialist domestic abuse expert in 999 control room , recognise the terrible tragedy of what happen to Raneem Oudeh and how devastating it be : she call 999 four time on the night she be kill , and no one come . for she and her family , we have to make sure that we make change . we have to get neighbourhood police back on the beat , so we will introduce a new neighbourhood policing guarantee and new arrangement to cut waste , compelling force to change the way they procure , in order to make the saving we need — saving that we will put back on the frontline . I thank the Home Secretary for her speech and for all the possibility she have put forward , which we will hopefully endorse later today when the vote come . as the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) mention , an attitude change need to happen in society , and it be important that the medium promote it in a positive way . there have be , I think , 28 murder of woman and girl across Northern Ireland over the past few year . that concern I greatly , so when the Home Secretary bring forward the idea she be describe in the form of legislation in this House , will she share those policy and legislative change with the Northern Ireland Assembly ? what she have describe today can be beneficial for all of we in this United Kingdom , and in particular for Northern Ireland . it be really important that my constituent and lady and girl across Northern Ireland feel safe , and at the moment , they do not . the hon . Member make a really important point : this be about all of we , and Northern Ireland have some of the high level of domestic abuse murder . this issue be immensely serious , and the safeguarding Minister be already plan to have those discussion , because we should all be learn from each other about what it take to save life and keep people safe . we will bring in new power on antisocial behaviour , include new respect order and new action on off - road bike , which be dangerous and deafening and be be use to terrorise some community . we will also take action against the soar shoplifting that have see supermarket chain butter , cheese and fabric conditioner to the shelf , reverse the previous conservative policy on low - value theft , and we will stand up against the appalling violence against shop worker . for year , the Co - op , the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers , major retailer , small shop owner and shop worker across the country have urge we to strengthen the law against assault on shop worker , and through this King ' s Speech , we will do so . we will also increase standard in policing , include through mandatory vetting standard across force and improvement around misconduct . on the topic of mandatory vetting , do my right hon . friend agree that we should also have psychological testing for the police ? some of the incident that have be bring to light , such as the kidnapping and killing of Sarah Everard and the picture take of Bibaa and Nicole in Brent , be appal and can only be do by people who have lose compassion in their job . my hon . friend make an important point . some of this be about the vetting standard before people be appoint as police officer , but some of it be about the culture that can operate within force — or small group within force — that always need to be challenge , include by leadership . we want to see national vetting standard . let we be clear : there be police officer who do an incredible job every day of the week to keep we all safe , while also show immense bravery . for 14 year run , I have be to the police bravery award to hear incredible story of heroism , but those brave officer be badly let down — just as community be badly let down — when other officer fail to meet those standard or when they abuse the power they have . that be why the standard and safeguard issue be so important . turn to knife crime , no parent should have to lie in bed worry that a son or daughter might not come home . one of the hard thing be to talk to parent who be grieve — who stand with a photo in a frame , because that be all they have . it be important that all our community take action to prevent our young people from be drag into crime and violence . the King ' s Speech mean new law to get dangerous knife off the street , such as ninja sword of the type that be use to kill 16 - year - old Ronan Kanda near his home in Wolverhampton two year ago . I pay tribute to the tireless campaigning of Pooja , Ronan ' s mother . we will also set up a radical new Young Futures prevention programme to stop our teenager be draw into a life of violent crime , bring service together around young people in the way that the last Labour Government ' s sure Start programme do for our young child . it will be a programme for teenager , to help they get back on track . we will also bring forward new legislation on border , security and immigration . legal migration have treble in the past five year ; the big driver have be overseas recruitment , with work visa soar because the last Government run what be effectively a free - market , laissez - faire approach to both the economy and the immigration system . they completely fail to tackle skill shortage : area such as engineering have be on the shortage list for decade if not generation , never have a proper programme . we have see the number of engineering visa go up while the number of engineering apprenticeship have go down . we have to turn that around , which be why , as well as continue with visa control , we will draw up new arrangement to link the point - base system with new skill plan . that be why the Education Secretary have draw up plan for Skills England . will the Home Secretary give way ? I will give way one more time to the hon . member . one of the issue we have be pursue over the past few year have be the fishing visa scheme to bring crew in . the last Government bring suggestion forward , but they put a very high ceiling on wage , mean it be impossible for some of the crew in the fishing boat to bring people in under the visa scheme . will the Home Secretary meet I and other interested party in this Chamber who represent fishing community to discuss a way forward ? I believe there be a way of do it , and I very much look forward to work with the Home Secretary to ensure that that be a possibility and that we have a future . I be sure the hon . Member will continue to raise issue in this Chamber until every Minister have meet he on one issue or another , and I be sure all of our Home Office Ministers will be willing to do so . let I turn to the issue of asylum policy , many of which we discuss yesterday . I have highlight they , and I will continue to do so because I be still , frankly , shock about the amount of money that be spend . we have hear lot about tough action on asylum seeker and tough action on immigration . what the Home Secretary have not talk about in her statement yesterday and her speech today be the value of immigration , how it assist our economy and how it enrich some of our community . can we hear some more about that from the Home Secretary , because surely we be not go to replace one Tory hostile environment with a new labour hostile environment ? let we be clear : immigration be important to our country and have be through the generation , with people come to this country to start some of our big business or to work in a public service , but it also need to be properly control and manage , so that the system be fair and so that rule be properly respect and enforce . the issue of illegal migration trebling over the last five year have , I think , reflect some fundamental failure around skill and fundamental failure around the way the economy work . it be important that those be address , and that we do not just shrug our shoulder and turn our back . we believe in have a properly control and manage system , and that be the right way to deal with this . similarly , turn to asylum , it have always be the case that this country have do its bit to help those flee persecution and conflict , and we must continue to do so , but we must also have a properly manage and control system . we raise yesterday the shocking scale of the £ 700 million spend send four volunteer — just four volunteer — to Rwanda . the decision on the asylum hotel amnesty that the Conservatives have in effect be operate be actually even bad and have cost even more money . I know that the shadow Home Secretary have say that he do not recognise those figure , but I wonder if he actually ever ask for they . I would say to he that it be one of the first thing I ask for , because I be sick and tired of see government just waste money with careless policy when they have never actually work out how much they be go to cost . the Conservatives ' policy under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 — with the combination of section 9 and 30 — be to have everybody enter the asylum hotel system or the asylum accommodation system , and never to take any decision on those case . there be a shocking cost to the taxpayer of up to £ 30 billion over the next few year on asylum accommodation and support . it also mean that the rule just be not be respect and enforce . it be deeply damaging and undermine the credibility of the asylum system , but it also leave the taxpayer pay the price . yes , the King ' s Speech do bring forward new legislation on border , asylum and immigration . that will include bring forward new counter - terror power , include enhanced search power and aggressive financial order for organise immigration crime , and we be recruit new cross - border police officer , investigator and prosecutor , as well as a new border commander . this be part of a major upgrade in law enforcement , work with cross - border police station across Europe to be able to tackle , disrupt and dismantle the action of criminal gang before they reach the french coast . finally , let I turn to national security , because when it come to defend our nation against extremist and terrorist , against state challenge and hostile threat , or against those who try to undermine our democracy and value , I hope this House will always be ready to come together . I pay tribute to the police and the intelligence and security service , which work unseen to keep we safe . in that spirit , I hope the whole House will be ready to support Martyn ' s law , draw up by the tireless Figen Murray in memory of her son Martyn Hett , so that we learn the lesson from the terrible Manchester attack , when child and their parent who go out for a special night never come home and life could have be save . that , I hope , be the moment to end on , because we will debate , argue and have difference of view , but in this House , at the very heart of our democracy , we can also come together to keep community safe . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Home Secretary to her place and congratulate she on what I hope will be a new era in home affair in this country . I thank she for her declare openness to work together across the House in the good interest of everyone . I have to say that I have have one small disappointment in that I have anticipate we would not argue about the Rwanda scheme today . for too long , it seem , we have have to listen to the empty rhetoric about a fail immigration and asylum system and the botched attempt to fix it . today we should be look forward with more of a sense of anticipation . it be like the day someone get their exam result and choose their university , with the anticipation of the choice — the positive choice — they will make in the future . could we be enter a period of more positive attitude towards immigration , as well as fix the asylum backlog , have more community police and , as the Home Secretary mention , have a continue focus on tackle violence against woman and girl ? today ' s report estimate that one in 12 woman in England and Wales will be a victim of male violence every year . that be shocking . the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 be important in move we forwards , but there be more to do , and I welcome the comment of the Home Secretary on work together . while I have confidence in the new Government ' s determination to tackle violence against woman and girl , I urge they to continue with the same cross - party approach that , as mention , prove so successful with the Domestic Abuse Act . work together on that be key , and it can be again on the crime and police Bill and the victim , court and public protection Bill . specifically , the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , Nicole Jacobs , have be clear that we really need to see full ratification of the Istanbul convention and new mandatory training for police on support the victim of violence against woman and girl . I be sure everyone here agree with the sentiment that all of we deserve to feel safe in our own home and community . that provide the security and the stability from which people can live their good life and create the good community . yet for too many people in the UK in the past decade , that have simply not be the reality . unnecessary cut and the ineffective use of resource have contribute to the rise in unsolved crime , as police force have be leave overstretched and under - resource . serious violence have destroy too many young life , our community be plague by burglary , fraud and antisocial behaviour , and far too many criminal be get away with it . as I say , violence against woman and girl remain horrifically high . on top of that , the huge backlog in the court be deny victim the justice they deserve . prison be in crisis — overcrowded , understaffed and fail to rehabilitate offender . we need to free up local officer ' time to focus on their community , and we on the liberal Democrat Benches will continue to call for a return to proper community police . however , we also need to look at how we be work with our neighbour to tackle international crime . it will come as no surprise that I hope this Government will work to repair some of the damage do to that co - operation by the previous Government ' s attitude to Europe , as well as to build a well relationship with Europe and improve co - operation with our neighbour on tackle cross - border crime , human trafficking , the illegal drug trade , cyber - crime and terrorism . we need to recognise the golden thread that run through Departments , and that success will be much more likely if we do not work in silos . as the Home Secretary say , we need to invest in youth service that be genuinely engage . what this all come down to be prevention and early intervention to improve life and make our community safe . if I could beg your indulgence , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to make something of a personal plea to the Government . in the last Parliament , I introduce a private member ' s Bill motivate by my own experience and my family ' s experience of lose a parent too young . I work closely with lead charity , such as Winston ' s Wish , which provide bespoke counselling , group session and online service to help young people deal with their grief . I be delighted to see the child ' s wellbee Bill and its recognition of the need for well bereavement support . I would hope , when we see the detail , that it will provide clear guidance for local council , school and other public body on how to ensure that every bereaved child know where to find the right help for they when they need it , so that their life be not blight and they do not go into adulthood carry the burden of that grief . there be one other issue I would highlight . I live in and represent part of Edinburgh , a diverse city , which at this time of the year be prepare for a massive influx of performer and audience from across the world . it be fun and it be entertaining , but more than that , it be a vital event that bring more than £ 400 million into the local economy every year . it be part of our creative industry , which be worth £ 126 billion to the UK economy every year . they have suffer as much , perhaps more , than many other sector from the chaotic and ineffective immigration and visa system we have have in this country for the past decade . make no mistake , we need to improve it , but we need to improve it for our economy and for our NHS . generation of people from all over the world have greatly enrich our economy , our culture and our community , and as liberal my party and I would like to see people treat as just that : people who come here and benefit our country . but our immigration system have be break by the Conservatives . damaging rule mean british employer can not recruit the people they need and family be separate by unfair complex visa requirement . in my constituency of Edinburgh West , I have sit with family tear apart by these rule and do my good to reunite they . the dysfunction in the system have make the asylum backlog soar , and public confidence in the system be shatter . the Home Office have not be fit for purpose and I hope this Government ' s policy as set out in the King ' s Speech will address that . it need to put people at its heart , with safe and legal route to sanctuary , and it can not be state how pleased I be that the unworkable Rwanda plan have be scrap . but we must smash the criminal gang at the root of the people traffic that be cause so much distress . I welcome what the Government have announce so far but we do need more , and those safe and legal route I mention be surely the good way to take power away from the gang . along with that , we need to expand and properly fund the UK resettlement scheme . the hon . Member will know from be a Scottish MP and the work of the Scottish Affairs Committee that we face a press demographic issue in Scotland . we be the only part of the UK that will have a fall population in 20 year ' time . will she support the emerge cross - party talk about a specific and distinct scottish visa so we can finally get on top of our demographic and population issue ? the hon . Gentleman know that I believe we should be look at the sector that suffer . the fruit production and pick sector and the food processing sector in Scotland need a workforce and need immigration as much as those sector in the rest of the United Kingdom . we should not look at specific geographical area ; we should be look at sector . we should be look at industry and what benefit the whole of the economy of the whole of the United Kingdom . I have mention the UK resettlement scheme , but we also need clarity on whether the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 will be repeal and consign to history as the expensive mistake we surely recognise they as . this Government have much to do and , where we can , we will support and work with they . later today we will be propose an amendment detail the area we would like to see strengthen : uphold public standard ; address the crisis in our health system ; have a cross - party commission on social care ; and scrap the two - child benefit cap . on those area where we can work with this Government , we will do so . what they have set out be only a beginning , however , and we look forward to see the detail of the legislation . rise — order . unfortunately , there will have to be an eight - minute limit on Back - Bench speech , although those make a maiden speech be exempt from that . I call Debbie Abrahams . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be a surprise to be call so early , but I be absolutely delighted . I welcome the King ' s Speech and its focus on fairness and opportunity for all — quite the antidote to the last 14 year when thing have be anything but fair . the UK now have the high level of income inequality in Europe and the ninth high of 38 OECD country . inequality in wealth be even bad , with the top fifth of the population have over one third of the country ' s income but two third of the country ' s wealth . these inequality in income and wealth be particularly concentrated in the north but also among disabled people and ethnic minority community . the impact of these inequality on health have be describe by Professor Sir Micheal Marmot in his late report , " live cut Short . " he write in the BMJ : " if everyone have the good health of the least deprive 10 % of the population , there would have be 1 million few death in England in the period 2012 to 2019 . " poverty and inequality be not inevitable ; they be the result of political choice . the choice of consecutive conservative Governments over the past 14 year have lead to not only our flatline economy , but our flatline life expectancy and healthy life expectancy . in deprive area such as mine , life expectancy and healthy life expectancy be actually decline . we also have grow level of economic inactivity due to this ill health , and the International Monetary Fund have reveal that there be a causal impact from these health inequality on economic growth . for every 1 % increase in the income share of the rich 20 % , growth be reduce , whereas increase the income share of the poor 20 % increase growth . ensure a vibrant , stable and fair economy with sustainable growth will enable we to renew and restore our overstretch public service . with fair funding formula and public spending allocation base on need , there be an opportunity to improve health in area , such as Oldham , that have fall behind . there be many Bills and initiative that will make a positive difference to our life and living standard , and these include the new deal for work people that will make work pay , end the outrage of over 8 million work people live in poverty and 3 million child in poverty live in working household , transform the life of million of people up and down the country , include in Oldham East and Saddleworth . the new GB Energy company will not only support new quality job but provide cheap , clean energy , reduce the energy bill of my constituent and million of other . the child ' s wellbee Bill , with free breakfast club and 100 , 000 extra nursery place , will also help to reduce cost pressure for young family while make life a bit easy for family . our plan to enable 1 . 5 million new quality home to be build while at the same time ensure legislation to end no - fault eviction will be a huge relief to tenant and mortgage holder everywhere . collectively , these measure will help improve the living standard of million of people , but they will not happen overnight or for all people . some 2 . 6 million working - age people be out of work because of an illness or disability . while many sick and disabled people want to work and will benefit from the extra NHS appointment and therapy , it will be many month before we see inroad into these waiting list . similarly , I would like to think that the attitude of employer towards hire disabled worker will shift quickly , but we recognise that be unlikely to be the case . and then there be other disabled people for whom the possibility of working be unrealistic . those who be disabled or who live in a household with a disabled adult or child be more likely to live in poverty . over the past 14 year , disabled people have be absolutely batter by consecutive conservative government . as the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities describe , there have be systematic violation of their right under the UN convention . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . six year on , that Committee do a follow - up report which find that thing have in fact get even bad for disabled people , so do she agree that it be now absolutely right that a new Labour Government will change course ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I be absolutely convinced that under a Labour Government we will see these change . I think it be important that we put on the record where we be at the moment . we need to ensure that the right to adequate social protection and social security be in place , and we know that be not the case at the moment . we must do well not just in change the culture of the Department for Work and Pensions , but in recognise the extra cost , the fear and the poverty disabled people face and feel , because otherwise I fear that we will be see more death of disabled claimant . similarly , while I support the measure in the King ' s Speech to improve our life , that can not happen soon enough for the nearly one in two child live in poverty across Oldham . child live in poverty now will be affect by the experience for the rest of their life . there be evidence that live in poverty change the wiring of their brain . many will not reach their first birthday . shamefully , we have the bad infant mortality rate in northern Europe . there be no law of nature that decree that child from poor family have to die at more than twice the rate of child in rich family . I welcome that the Secretaries of State for Education and for Work and Pensions have establish the child poverty taskforce to deliver the cross - Government child poverty strategy , and I look forward to it report in the early autumn . we can not forget the 1 . 6 million child across the UK with special educational need . SEND education be in crisis and that can not continue . this Labour Government be a Government for everyone , and the King ' s Speech be a starting point on that . I look forward to work with the Government to deliver the change that all our country need . I call Andrew Snowden to make his maiden speech . it be truly an honour to rise as the new Member for Fylde to give my maiden speech in this historic House , the global seat of democracy for century before we . I have choose to make my maiden speech today because , have serve as Lancashire ' s police and crime commissioner until May this year , it feel incredibly poignant to speak in the home affair debate . it give I the opportunity to thank the police officer and staff I work with for their bravery , their sacrifice and their service . during my term of office , I be truly inspire by so many people at Lancashire Constabulary . I throw myself into a job I love , spend as much time on the frontline as I could . I learn the most about police when there be no camera around , sit in the back of carrier on the way to drug raid , walk the beat on a cold , wet evening , or take part in training side by side with officer . they seem to make the most of the commissioner be there with they , not spare I the newbie treatment just because of who I be . I have be set on fire twice , have drainpipe Stihl - saw off my arm and , despite do all the video people would expect from a politician , the most - watch video from my whole term of office be the one in which I get bite by three different police dog . with hindsight , give that the public appear to enjoy the video of I get bite by dog more than the one about my budget , I suppose I should have see my election defeat come in that particular election . in all sincerity , though , I place firmly and proudly on the record my gratitude to everyone I have work with at Lancashire Constabulary and in the office of commissioner . as this House debate the future policy and funding of police in the UK , we should never forget those at the heart of it , on the frontline , work and make sacrifice to keep we safe every day . I be able to give this maiden speech today only because the people of Fylde have give I the honour of serve as their Member of Parliament , and it truly be an honour . be elect to represent an area where my family connection go back before I be even bear , that we as a family love , and where my two - year - old son Walter will grow up and call home , be an incredibly special and humble moment . Fylde be a proud and beautiful area , steep in the history of Lancashire and our country , nestle on stunning coastline with many town and village across the countryside , each with their own history . might I add that it be also an area that we intend to fight to keep green and beautiful for generation to come ? Fylde be far more than coastline , countryside and be part of our county ' s history . some of the most advanced technology in the world be be develop and build here . in fact , often when out near Warton and Freckleton we can hear the jet fighter take off from the site where they be construct . while I be out on the election battlefield , campaign every day , it feel strangely reassuring to hear the incredible noise as the fighter jet power overhead — to be honest , I need all the back - up I could get in the battle to keep Fylde blue this time . from the defence sector to farming and agriculture , tourism and hospitality , the care sector and other , there be a strong local economy . however , to build on that , to create more opportunity for young people and to well connect our business and those seek opportunity across Lancashire and beyond , we need to improve infrastructure and public transport . I be grateful to the work that my predecessor as the Member for Fylde do to secure million in extra funding . work with the Government , local council and other partner , he be critical in secure the £ 27 million that enable the M55 to Heyhouses link road to be construct , and it have recently be open . a few month early , the £ 150 million Windy Harbour to Skippool bypass open , an important link road for the people across Poulton - le - Fylde . the boundary review bring this historic market town of Poulton in Wyre to the constituency of Fylde . I therefore also place on the record my thank to the former Member for Wyre and Preston North , and former Defence Secretary , the right hon . Ben Wallace , and not only for the role he play in secure the funding for that major project , but for his unwavering work as Secretary of State for Defence in such critical , unpredictable and dangerous time . the global leadership he demonstrate in galvanise the international response to Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine be a legacy that he should be incredibly proud of . go back to Fylde , we need to focus on continue to improve the exist road network , as well as expand it . equally as importantly , we need to secure investment for the rail network , and I will be campaign hard for a pass loop on the south Fylde line to improve the regularity and reliability of service . I would also like to talk about an important personal area of work that I will undertake as a Member of this House . I would not be here today — I would not have survive the journey to this moment — without the support , encouragement and love of my wife , Caroline . we have be each other ' s strength through good time and difficult one , and the fact that Caroline have always have the strength to support I in such magnitude when she have have her own battle to fight be testament to the person she be . Caroline , like thousand across this country , live with what be often know as an invisible disability . it mean that she have often conceal just how sick and in pain she be . she have have to explain why she be in hospital when just week early she may have be visibly well to everyone , and therefore suffer in silence . I want to champion the work of Crohn ' s & Colitis UK , and other charity and organisation that support and advocate for those with disability that be not visible , and to help remove the stigma , indifference and even hostility that they receive , for example when need to use facility mark as for disabled people . the hurt and humiliation that can cause only add to the incredible difficulty of live with these condition , and we must do much more to raise awareness . to conclude , Fylde be a place where some of the most advanced fighter jet in the world be build , and it be at the cutting edge of artificial intelligence and other technology , but it be also a place where town from Lytham to Kirkham , and village from stain to Singleton , still crown the young rose queen each year and hold gala and parade , and a place where people take pride in look after the countryside and preserve our heritage . I intend to spend my time in this House fighting for Fylde — yes , for the investment in our future , but also the preservation of our history , our coastline and our countryside . first , I congratulate the hon . member for Fylde ( Mr Snowden ) on his maiden speech . it be a move speech , and I know that his family and his constituent will be very proud of his commitment to work on the issue around Crohn ' s and colitis , which be a devastating and difficult disease for those who have to endure it . it be a privilege for I to represent the community of Dulwich , West Norwood , Herne Hill , Gipsy Hill , and part of Brixton , Crystal Palace , Camberwell and Tulse Hill , and I be grateful to everyone who vote to send I here for a fourth time . I be especially grateful to the resident of Champion Hill ward , who vote for I for the first time in this election due to boundary change . I be delighted to be speak for the first time from the Government side of the House of Commons . over the past nine year in this place , I have see the impact of the Conservatives ' political decision on my constituent . I have see the housing crisis deepen every single year . our local school have struggle as the school funding formula be change to redirect funding away from constituency like mine with high level of deprivation to more affluent area of the country . local authority funding have be decimate , affect the ability of our local council to keep deliver the service that resident need . our local health service have be place under unbearable pressure . parent be pay more than their rent or mortgage for a childcare place , and our police be unable to fill essential role in neighbourhood policing . there be not a single part of our public sector that be not at least partially break after 14 year of cut and neglect , while every Gracious Speech that I have listen to until now have make something else bad than it be before . among the most egregious legacy of the past 14 year of conservative government have be the impact on the life chance of child and young people . seven hundred thousand more child be live in poverty than in 2010 . there have be a shocking decline in child and young people ' s mental health . we have see 1 , 300 sure Start centre close , spiralling number of teenager enter the care system and parent across the country battle for special educational need and disability support . so I be deeply hearten to see that this Gracious Speech set out a legislative programme that begin the process of renewal and restoration that our country need and that will start to improve the life chance of child and young people . legislation will increase the number of teacher in our school , improve the mental health and wellbeing of young people , ensure that no child in primary school have to start the school day hungry , increase the number of nursery place and deliver well support for young people who be at risk of serious violence . I welcome the establishment of the child poverty taskforce . child poverty be a scourge on our society . the increase over the past 14 year be shameful , and it must be a core drive mission of the Government to eradicate it . child poverty do not happen in isolation . child live in poverty because their parent be poor . the solution to poverty be multiple and include make work pay ; more genuinely affordable housing ; reduce energy bill ; and create a social security system that actually act as an effective safety net . I understand the need both for a comprehensive strategy for tackle child poverty and for all public spending decision to be fully fund and affordable , but two thing be important . first , the child poverty taskforce must work with urgency and speed , and it must result in concrete action soon . childhood be short , and the year that be blight by poverty can not be rerun . secondly , the taskforce and the Government must follow the evidence . that include evidence from the Institute for Fiscal Studies , the Trussell Trust and a wide range of expert show a clear correlation between the two - child cap on child benefit and increase child poverty , as well as the alleviation that would come from lift it . I hope that the Government will consider that evidence as part of a wide , comprehensive strategy . several wide challenge affect child and young people be not include in the King ' s Speech but will require imminent strategic decision making from our new Government . they include the crisis in SEND support and the safety valve programme , which be force many council to make impossible cut to service that vulnerable resident rely on while family be leave fight in the tribunal for SEND support . there be also the financial crisis in our university sector , which should be the pride of our country , help we to face the future , prepare the next generation and deliver world - class research . university be also the fulcrum of the local economy in city and town across the country . their collapse would be catastrophic for job and economic growth . the Government must therefore ensure that a plan be in place that offer meaningful intervention to stem the current crisis and allow our university to stabilise and chart a sustainable course . when a country invest in its child and young people , it invest in the future . when it deliver a well society for child and young people , it deliver a well society for everyone . when it act to protect the most vulnerable . it place all of we on a more solid foundation . I welcome this Gracious Speech from our new Labour Government and look forward to see the Government deliver for our child and young people in the come month . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) . I spend 13 year on these Benches in opposition , and I know how frustrating it can be . the reality be that when the sheer size of our defeat become apparent , I have some difficulty in come to term with it . in order to characterise it , I do not think one can do well than our late colleague Peter Brooke , who , when describe a similar calamity , say , " the battle of Isandlwana be lose , so now begin the defence of the mission station at Rorke ' s Drift . " I have no doubt that the Government be always go to abandon the Rwanda scheme — they make that absolutely clear , and they have every right to do it — but I do think that the House will ultimately come to regret not have such a deterrent to hand . have it be allow to develop , it could have be such a deterrent . it be never a silver bullet but always part of a complex jigsaw of measure , of which , of course , the holy grail would be return agreement . the previous Government should be utterly congratulate on the return agreement they make with Albania , which have be a tremendous success . such agreement be hard to come by . I remember be send to negotiate with President Ghani in Afghanistan to try to get he to take a more helpful approach , give the blood and treasure that we be expend on behalf of his regime and the people of Afghanistan . he turn to I and say , " my priority be the young man and woman who be take the battle to the Taliban , and you want I to give time and resource to those people who ' ve choose to run away ? " well , it be a fair point — of course , ultimately he run away himself . but I have little more success in negotiation on return agreement with other Commonwealth member . these agreement be extraordinarily hard to achieve . I think that we would have want a third country where we could have settle people , because ultimately our ability to do so will be finite and limited . I want to draw attention to what the Prime Minister say yesterday in his statement , when he point out that he have just authorise a very significant increase in money to regime in Africa . ultimately , that have to be the long - term answer — the very long - term answer . we make an agreement back in 1970 with the wealthy country of the world to spend 0 . 7 % of our national income on international development in the economy of those country from which so many people be now come and will continue to come as long as the incentive of life be so much well here exist . it take we until the coalition Government in 2011 to actually honour that commitment to spending 0 . 7 % of our national income , and we subsequently abandon it — or certainly reduce it . if all the nation that have enter that agreement have honour it and deliver it when they make it , perhaps the flow of population from the develop world would have abate substantially and we would be deal with a different situation . ultimately , it be all about job . take Zaatari , the huge refugee camp on the border of Jordan and Syria : a great city now , make from scratch . those who be accommodate in Zaatari will find that the housing provide by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees be of a substantially well quality than that available in many city and shanty town across the world . they will find that the World Food Programme will feed they , and their child will be educate by the UN child ' s agency . perhaps most importantly , security will be supply by the jordanian force and be of a much great standard than they might enjoy in many other part of the world . despite all those advantage , people from Zaatari will spend every penny they have , and borrow , in order to escape and get the one thing that Zaatari can not supply they : a livelihood and a future for their family . that be the driver of so much migration . ultimately , we must return to that original policy , restore the 0 . 7 % , and start build for the long term a world that be much more secure as a consequence of the economic development available in those other place . the right hon . Gentleman make a powerful point , but do he accept that much of that aid go to prop up corrupt regime , which deny people the right that we have in this country and be one of the thing that drive immigration in this country ? if aid be misspent or use to prop up regime , it be detrimental , not helpful . that be absolutely right , but we do not do that . we do not spend our money in that way . we support people under desperate regime , not by give money to those regime but by provide sustenance through third party and NGOs , which deliver that . some of the great damage do by much of our own press be how our international development aid effort be paint as destructive in the way that be just describe . it never be . I return to my original point : we can not take everybody , and we certainly need somewhere else where they could have go . Rwanda strike I as somewhere that that possibility could blossom . let I begin by say how good it be to see the conservative party on the Opposition Benches and in such diminished number . no doubt some will say that I be be unsporte , but since politic be not a sport , I will say it anyway : I will never forgive conservative mp for the 14 year of damage that they have inflict on our community . child poverty have never be high and NHS waiting list have never be long . life expectancy be fall and food bank queue be rise . our public service be cut to the bone and our infrastructure be break . our train be permanently in crisis and our river be pump full of sewage . our teacher , doctor and nurse have be force to strike . accord to one academic study , 330 , 000 excess death between 2012 and 2019 can be attribute to Tory austerity . when I say that politics be not a sport but a matter of life and death , that be what I mean . for some it appear to be a parlour game about the next zone 2 dinner party invite , but this be about people ' s life and their material condition . while the Conservatives scapegoate minority and slash support for the poor , they help the rich get rich . worker ' wage be low than in 2008 , but the wealth of UK billionaire be up threefold since the Tories come to power . the general election result show that people across the country be cry out for change . our new Labour Government must now deliver it . I be pleased to say for the first time in my parliamentary career that this King ' s Speech include Bills that I look forward to vote for , but I will surprise no one by say that I want our Government to go far , by introduce the new deal for work people and ban all zero - hour contract . they must totally end fire and rehire , repeal all anti - trade union legislation , roll out sectoral collective bargaining across the economy , and recognise that the argument that we make for public ownership of rail apply to water , mail and energy too . in the short time I have to speak today , I want to focus on two area that I believe need urgent action . first , if the Labour party have a moral mission , it must be to eradicate poverty . after 14 year of the Conservatives , a record 4 . 3 million child be grow up in poverty . they go to bed hungry , they struggle more in school and their physical and mental health take a hit . their parent be put through hell to try to make end meet . I welcome the child poverty taskforce , but everyone in the Chamber have read the briefing , and everyone know that the evidence be overwhelming . the key driver of rise child poverty be the two - child benefit cap , and the single most effective way of tackle child poverty be immediately to lift 300 , 000 child out of poverty by scrap this cruel policy . you should vote for it . I will be vote for it , thank you . it be a move back by everyone from Gordon Brown to all 11 trade union affiliate to the Labour party , the TUC , which represent 6 million worker , the Archbishop of Canterbury and save the Children . with a 1 % wealth tax on asset over £ 10 million , we could raise the fund need to pay for the policy three time over . kid should not have to suffer a single day in avoidable poverty . I will vote for the amendment select by the Speaker to scrap this cruel Tory policy and , at this late stage , I appeal to our new Labour Front - Bench team to deliver the change that the country have call for , and adopt the policy and immediately lift 300 , 000 child out of poverty . the second area need urgent action relate to my amendment ( c ) . as we debate here in Westminster , rain down hell on Gaza be Israel ' s fleet of F - 35 fighter jet — plane describe by their manufacturer as the most lethal fighter jet in the world . Israel have arm those jet with 2 , 000 lb bomb with a lethal radius of 365 m — the equivalent of 58 football pitch . a recent UN report identify the bomb as have be use in emblematic case of indiscriminate and disproportionate attack on Gaza — attack that clearly violate international law . I raise this because every F - 35 fighter jet be make in part here in Britain , in a deal estimate to be worth £ 368 million . that be just one example of Israel ' s use of British - make arm in its assault on Gaza , which have kill more than 38 , 000 people — disproportionately woman and child . the legal threshold for these sale to be ban have clearly be meet , so they should be ban . there be a clear risk that British - make weapon might be use to commit or facilitate serious violation of international humanitarian law , hence why , in February , UN expert call on these sale to end immediately . other country — Spain , Canada and the Netherlands to name just a few — have suspend sale . previous british Governments suspend sale after far few israeli assault : Margaret Thatcher in 1982 , Tony Blair in 2002 , Gordon Brown in 2009 and David Cameron in 2014 . today , the palestinian people face death and destruction on a scale unlike anything they have face before , but British - make arm be still be license to Israel and use to kill innocent people . again , I say to our new government : it be time for we to uphold international law and end arm sale to Israel . it be a great pleasure to serve in the Chamber with you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . I wish the new Government Front - Bench team well . they know that I have high regard for many of they , include the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) and the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who be in their place . as a patriot , I wish the Government well , because they be in a position to run our country and there will be many matter on which we can agree . I have work with a number of Government Members on the kind of matter that go well beyond Punch and Judy politic , if I can call it that , particularly on national security . however , those good wish be not the same as wishful thinking . too much wishful thinking pervade the Government Benches . have make change itself the brand , the risk they face be think that change alone be enough . CS Lewis say : " if you look for truth , you may find comfort in the end ; if you look for comfort you will not get either comfort or truth only soft soap and wishful thinking to begin , and in the end , despair . " nevertheless , I wish the Government well . we be debate a number of challenge in this aspect of the King ' s Speech today , but none more challenging than that of lawlessness . too often when we debate crime , lawlessness and order in this Chamber , we give too little regard to the victim of crime . we simply must end the culture , which have pervade for most of my lifetime , of believe that crime be an illness ; to be treat . it be not an illness ; it be a malevolent choice make by those who be careless of the harm they do . when we understand that , we understand why the principal objective of the criminal justice system must be punishment . a justly retributive response to that malevolence be necessary not only because it be the right thing to do , but because it be the component of the criminal justice system which maintain the public ' s faith that justice will be do and be see to be do . I be listen intently to the right hon . Gentleman ' s speech . do he therefore believe that people be bear wicked ? I believe that , with good education at a very early age and early intervention , crime can be prevent . I imagine you will not allow I to talk about the fall from the state of grace and the character of sin , Mr Deputy Speaker , but let I say briefly to the hon . Lady that human being be capable of the great wickedness and the great good . when they choose to do good , they can do immensely joyful thing . I hope that the people in this Chamber all seek to do good , which be why I begin my speech by wish the Government well . my experience of this place be that people , regardless of party , be here because they want to make their constituent well off and the country they live in a happy and more agreeable place . of course people have the capacity to do good , but we know too that people can do the most dreadful thing , and when they do so it be absolutely right that law - abide decent patriotic people see that they get their just desert . that be not a strange or curious idea ; it be one that have inform most criminal justice system in all civilisation for all of time , and the most obvious way of ensure that people who do harm get their just desert be to incarcerate they . that bring I to the second principle of the criminal justice system , which be that we take people out of harm ' s way . the good way of do that be to imprison those who seek to do harm . I be shocked , as be my constituent , that the Government now intend to let more of those dangerous people on to our street . we be now tell that people will be release — include people who have do violent thing , who have hurt and damage other people ' s life — after they have serve 40 % of their sentence . when most people I represent hear of a sentence for such crime , they assume that people will serve 100 % of it . of course , that have not be the case for a long time , but we now know that the Government , on the ground of prison overcrowding , be to release many more of these dangerous people on to our street . I be afraid that the wishful thinking I describe early will soon turn to the wish that the Government would see the sense of why that be an entirely unacceptable course of action . the last Conservative Government add to the number of prison place , but not enough and not fast enough — I think all of we on the conservative Benches would acknowledge that — but give where we be , we simply can not subject the british people to the fear , and not only fear but the reality , of let out of prison other who would do they harm . let we deal with the third aspect of criminal justice , which be to try to prevent recidivism by reform those in prison . as a Minister , I work on prison education , because it be important that we try to ensure that people who have commit a crime and have be punish for do so do not commit another , but that can not be the only or define characteristic of criminal justice . we have to recognise what Philip Bean , the criminologist in the 1970 say : retribution have to be a core part of what the public see in order to maintain their faith in the system and in what the Government and the authority be do . yes , let we have a debate about rehabilitation ; let we try to save soul , not only because it prevent recidivism but because it be the right thing to do for those individual . but we should understand that punishment be not a dirty word . it be what most of our constituent take for grant , yet I never hear those sentiment express with any vehemence or conviction by the liberal establishment in this country , which unfortunately be too well represent in this place . do my right hon . friend agree that there be different type of crime and different type of prisoner , and that many people in our prison system at the moment , particularly those responsible for relatively low - level , non - violent antisocial behaviour , could powerfully serve much well and more rehabilitative community sentence ? I do not want chain gang in Norfolk and Lincolnshire , but good community service , where people can see that they be actually put something back into society , would ease a lot of pressure on the system . community sentence can play a part , that be true , but my hon . friend will recall that the problem I describe early of misunderstand crime as an illness to be treat have its root in think that stretch right back to the 1960 . you will perhaps know , Mr Deputy Speaker , that the Children and Young Persons Act 1969 begin intermediate treatment order , which essentially reward young people who have commit crime with the kind of community activity that my hon . friend describe . People be send to the Brecon Beacons when their law - abide neighbour have to make do with a week in Clacton . I mean no disrespect to Clacton or its representative , I hasten to add . [ laughter . ] that be not the kind of response to crime that the vast majority of my constituent — or , I suspect , those of my hon . friend — expect . yes , community sentence can play a part , but they must not in any way distract we from the fundamental truth — I think it be Grotius who say it , Mr Deputy Speaker — that criminal justice have to have at its heart the idea of an ill suffer for an ill inflict . I hope that the new Government will recognise that to crack down on crime , they really do have to restore public faith in the fact that , as I say , justice will be do . it be fact that 10 % of convict criminal be responsible for half of all conviction . it be true , too , that those individual be know and can be identify and must not be release in the way that have be suggest . yet , disturbingly , the new Prisons Minister be on the record as say : " we ' re addicted to sentencing , we ' re addict to punishment . so many people who be in prison , in my view , shouldn ' t be there . " that be both the opposite of the truth and anything but what most people think . I welcome the attention give in the King ' s Speech to shoplifting , but again I fear that the Government ' s approach amount to little more than wishful thinking . we have a shoplifting epidemic in Britain . police force do not respond to almost nine out of 10 serious incident and UK retailer already spend around £ 1 billion each year on try to deal with a problem with which they struggle to cope . many offender persistently commit crime and get away with it . so let we , in this debate and in the programme that follow it , not simply rely on wishful thinking but face up to the profound truth which seem to have escape the notice of Labour Governments forever and , too often , of conservative Governments too : reflect the sentiment of the vast majority of law - abide people mean the guilty must be punish and the innocent must be protect . I call Dr Beccy Cooper to make her maiden speech . it be a privilege to make my maiden speech among such an outstanding group of people . I hope that people who have see the maiden speech over the past few day , and will watch they in the day , week and month to come , might see some of the warmth , kindness and decency that I have meet in my fellow mps in these first couple of week in Parliament . I be the newly elect Member for the beautiful constituency of worthe West . nestle between the south down and the english channel , we be often describe as that area just west of our big sister , Brighton . but , as with all young sister , we have many often unsung merit , about which it will be my absolute pleasure to tell the House a little today . worthe West be make up of two third of worthe town , the other third now be ably represent by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tom Rutland ) . in this part of my constituency people can find worthe town centre , our beautiful old lido building , and the recently return worthe wheel . before be elect to Parliament , I have the great privilege of be the leader of worthe council . our vision for worthe be for it to be both the fair and the green coastal town in the UK , an ambition that I be sure my coastal colleague will try to wrestle from I . alongside an ambitious decarbonisation plan , work on worthe ' s town centre garden will begin this autumn in a community and council - lead project . we be also privileged to be part of the Sussex Bay project , a movement of radical collaboration initiate by Adur & worthe Councils with the mission of restore a healthy blue ecosystem to our sea and waterway in which nature , people and the local economy can thrive . worthe West be also home to the beautiful coastal and country village of Ferring , East Preston , Angmering , Findon , Clapham and Patching . I can tell any keen camper — I have not be in Parliament long enough to know how many mps actually like be without wi - fi and a good latte , but I be hope to find a few — that the Fox Wood campsite in Patching be a firm local favourite . there be two very handy pub near the site , the Fox and the Worlds End , which serve the most excellent food when your fire will not light and even the kid be sick of bean on toast . I be only the second Member of Parliament to represent worthe West . it be first form in 1974 , and for the past 30 year have be represent by Sir Peter Bottomley , who I know be very well respect here as the Father of the House . he be know for work cross - party on a variety of important campaign , include leasehold reform and the infected blood scandal . Sir Peter and I share a great affection for worthe West , and during the election campaign we often bump into each other enjoy a quick cuppa with constituent . I should confess at this point that I be a northerner originally , adopt by the south as one of its own , and a good brew be a must - have for a day to start and end well . we have many excellent caf é s in our area . to anyone who be listen to my speech and think that this newbie MP be not do too bad a job of sell the merit of her home town , I can thoroughly recommend the cake at Sea Lane caf é on Goring beach , the coffee at both Coast caf é and Finch in worthe town centre , and the breakfast at the Bluebird caf é in Ferring , among many other . at this point , I should also confess that my extolling of the virtue of cake — and all credit to the House staff for the incredible muffin in the parliamentary caf é — be temper by the fact that I be by profession a medical doctor , and , as my child will testify , I be reasonably obsess with make sure that cake be part of a healthy balance that allow we to enjoy all the different type of food . to be fair , my child would not necessarily recognise that description and might just say that their mum be a bit of a nag with a carrot obsession and an aversion to play computer game for too long , but such be the joy of parenthood . when people ask what type of doctor I be — and I definitely do not have the patience for a phd — the response that I be a public health consultant be often meet with slightly puzzled stare , a recalibration of what they have hear , and the decision that I be probably a gp by another name . however , I be delighted to join my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) to represent public health here in the House . it be the reason I choose to go into politic . it be the art and science of keep population well and help people to live healthy life . I appreciate that today ' s debate primarily concern home affair and immigration , so I will talk about public health on the basis of the explicit principle that health be essential in all thing to ensure safety and security for all people . as part of my public health training I spend time with the Health Protection Agency , now part of Public Health England . that training stand I in particularly good stead during the pandemic , when I find myself with a daily slot on BBC Radio Sussex talk about covid , debunk myth and provide reassurance that our fantastic scientist and public health specialist be do everything possible to develop vaccination and to keep we safe . the result of the covid inquiry , publish last week , reveal the clear conclusion that investment in preventive measure be always money well spend , and that be sadly lack before the pandemic . public health funding be cut by 25 % between 2015 and 2024 , so there be some salient lesson to be learn quickly about prevention be well than cure . my time in local government , as a public health consultant and subsequently as a councillor and council leader , teach I that politics be often the frontline where we grapple with the issue that arise from inequality and inequity — two indicator which tell we that the decision make by those of we in a position of influence be not yet decision that be maximise the health and wellbeing of the people we represent . the resource require to meet basic human need should be available to everyone , regardless of where we live or which family we be bear into . for people like I in public health and politic , there be a wealth of datum and evidence — as well as , I would contend , basic common sense — show that when resource be not allocate fairly to allow everyone ' s basic human need to be meet , we all suffer for it . People do not thrive without clean water , clean air , access to green space and good food . our physical body become far less resilient to illness when those be not available to we , and the same be true of poor housing , poor education and poor job . the causal link between poor housing condition and poor health outcome be long establish , with health outcome associate with poor housing cost the NHS an estimate £ 1 . 4 billion every year . we know that exposure to poor housing condition , include damp , cold , mould and noise , be strongly associate with poor health , both physical and mental . inequality in life expectancy be increase , especially for woman . in worthe West , a woman live in one of our poor area will live an average of 8 . 3 year less than a woman live in one of our wealthy area , and for the population as a whole , the time spend in poor health be increase . as Sir Michael Marmot so saliently put it , " if health have stop improve it be a sign that society have stop improve . " when people become physically and mentally ill , potential be lose , and before you know it , your country do not have a national health service ; it have an overwhelmed national sickness service . I be so proud and privileged to be part of the Labour intake of 2024 . for too long now , our politic have be make people sick . this be the start of a journey that I very much hope will lead to a politics that help to keep people well for many generation to come . reduce inequality and inequity will allow everyone to do well . the politic of health be the narrative of our nation . a government who focus on the health and wellbeing of the people we serve be a Government who enable we to rise together to face the challenge of both today and tomorrow . I congratulate the new hon . member for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) on an excellent speech . she will clearly be a force to be reckon with in this Chamber and beyond , and I wish she well in her parliamentary career . she follow the former Father of the House , so she have big shoe to fill . I thank the good citizen of Harrow East , who have allow I to return to the House for the fifth time . I be delighted that on what be not a great night for my party , I be able not only to hold my share of the vote but to increase my majority substantially , although sadly I be probably the only Conservative Member to do so . I also thank many colleague from the opposite side who come to visit my constituency during that time , and enjoy the hospitality of the resident of Harrow East while at the same time increase my majority . Harrow East be , of course , the most multiracial and most multi - religious constituency , and have a great adherence to religious faith than any other constituency in the country . I be proud to represent people of all faith and none , and , in particular , the large number who have come from the Commonwealth to live in this country and to live in Harrow East . I be dedicate to serve they to the good of my ability , for as long as they wish I to do so . give the debate we be have today on the Gracious Speech , there be some thing that I want to raise , particularly on home affair . we have hear from the Home Secretary about the Government ' s plan to deal with both legal and illegal migration . one challenge for the new Government will be very clear : how we deal with the 52 , 000 illegal migrant who have come to this country , and who would have be go to Rwanda or another place for resettlement . clearly , there be a decision to be make by the Home Office about what happen to those people , because the previous Government could not return they to their previous country . that will have to happen , and the other challenge will be how we stop this country be a magnet for illegal migration in the first place . we all want to see that happen , and it be vital that it be do . obviously , we have challenge in other field , and I welcome the word in the King ' s Speech , and indeed the new Prime Minister ' s word , about many of the thing to be include in the new Government ' s programme . I be absolutely delighted to hear that they will continue with the tobacco and vape Bill , which , as many colleague will know , I have champion through Parliament on many occasion . we have reach the end of its Committee stage , which you will remember , Mr Deputy Speaker , but we do not progress the Bill afterwards . I hope that it will be introduce rapidly , and that we can get it on to the statute book as fast as possible . the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , who be on the Front Bench , will welcome my say that the football governance Bill need to be progress quickly as well , so that we encourage the football club that we love to be properly organise and help . I be also pleased that the holocaust memorial Bill , which complete its stage in this House , will be enact as fast as possible . prior to the election , I be the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the Holocaust memorial and educational centre . the fact be that antisemitism in this country be rife and have grow , and we must combat it at every possible stage . we must also ensure that the memorial and learning centre be place alongside this building , so that we can demonstrate to the world that we must learn the lesson of what happen during the second world war and the Holocaust , and never allow it to happen again . it be vital that our young people and old people understand the consequence of that , and such work have be do on a cross - party basis . in many way , it be go to be absolutely vital to work on a cross - party basis . the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) , who be still in her place , raise the issue of what be go on in Gaza right now . I notice that she make no mention of the hostage who be still hold by the terrorist and the need for they to be return . once that happen , the weight of the world can lead to a cessation of hostility and , indeed , a peaceful resolution in the middle east . do the hon . Gentleman also note that there be no mention at all of the cynical way in which Hamas have use civilian as human shield ? they have use their school , hospital and home . they be guilty of cause many of the civilian death that have occur , because they have cynically use their own people . rise — will the hon . member give way ? I will answer the hon . Gentleman ' s point before I give way to those on the other side . the reality be that on 7 October , the jewish people suffer the bad atrocity since the Holocaust . we must remember that that be what happen , but we must also recognise the deprivation that the Palestinians in Gaza be suffer at this point in time . I be sure that the new Government will seek to ensure that justice be bring to all , and that the terrorist be not allow to thrive or gain . I will move on to one or two other area . will the hon . member give way ? I will not . the hon . Lady have have a chance to speak already . I will mention some other aspect of government legislation . clearly , we have to combat the abuse of woman and child , and I will work with colleague from across the House on that issue . in the last Parliament , I champion woman go into refuge so that they can be help by people outside , rather than have intrusion from public service when they be in desperate circumstance . of course , we must make sure that the police be properly train , properly skilled and able to deliver the service provide . equally , we must get the message to our police and crime commissioner , and particularly to the Labour Mayor of London , that more work must be do to combat crime , but also to recruit police officer and make sure that they be properly train to do the job that they should be do . I have already discuss the abolition of the Vagrancy Act 1824 with the Home Secretary . as many colleague will know , I have champion the plight of homeless people in this place . the fact that homeless people still face be criminalise on our street be a disgrace and an affront to our society . we have try on several occasion to get the Act remove from the statute book . it should be consign to the history book as fast as possible , and people should be give the right to have a proper home of their own — one that they can be proud of live in . equally , we have to recognise that have a secure job that bring in an income be the good route out of poverty . despite the rhetoric we have hear , the reality be that the last Government create an economic miracle , give the number of job create . we create more job in this country than the whole of the European Union combine , and the reality be that that be the route we should be pursue . finally , when the Prime Minister speak in the debate on the Gracious Speech , he recognise the late Jo Cox and the late David Amess , both of whom suffer the ultimate problem of be an MP : death in service . we must combat that and make sure that all mp , regardless of their political position , be safe , secure and able to do their job . I say gently to colleague on the Government Front Bench that we agree , on a cross - party basis , that the pre - recess Adjournment debate in the summer would be forever know as the Sir David Amess pre - recess Adjournment debate . I be disappointed that the Government have choose not to have a pre - recess Adjournment debate , but they still have time to adjust the timetable accordingly . I call Mark Ferguson to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak in this debate and for afford I the honour of make my first speech in this House on behalf of the people of Gateshead Central and Whickham — in fact , the first speech on behalf of the new constituency of Gateshead Central and Whickham . to represent a community you care about deeply , include friend and family , be of course a source of great pride , but to speak in this place as their voice be a great responsibility . my friend Ian Mearns , the former Member for Gateshead , serve the people of our community for 41 year — 27 as a councillor , and 14 in this place . he have always be and will remain someone I seek guidance from , even when we disagree , which we will . I will aim to carry forward his passion for education in this place , as education , alongside my family and the Labour party , have give I every opportunity I have have in my life . Ian serve as a member of the Education Committee , and be knowledgeable and rigorous in that role . he also serve as Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , and I know that many member will have be grateful to he for make sure that they have the time to raise their issue in this Chamber and Westminster Hall . I be fortunate , too , to have another immediate predecessor sit behind I : my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) . we be both proud trade unionist , and she have do inspirational work on self - harm and suicide prevention , which I know be deeply personal to she . I be indebted to she for her guidance and support , and will be for as long as I be lucky enough to work alongside she . in Gateshead , we be proud of our manufacturing history . our own Sir Joseph Swan invent the first incandescent light bulb , and his home in Low Fell be the first in the world to be wire for domestic electric lighting . manufacturing in Gateshead be part of my history , too — my father work at the old Clarke Chapman factory — yet we be equally excited about our manufacturing present and future . situate on both the east coast main line and the A1 , we be ideally suit for the job of the future , and I say to my hon . friend on the Front Bench and those in the relevant Departments that I will be collar they about this if I haven ' t already . work be key to the people of Gateshead and Whickham . we be work people , never shy of hard work and proud of what we do for work , but all too often in search of skilled work and well pay and too often force to live in poverty . that be why , among all the excellent Bills bring forward in this King ' s Speech , one stand out above all other : the employment right Bill . I must now declare an interest , and it be one I be proud to declare . as my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) state yesterday , I too be proud of the amount of work that I and other within Labour ' s affiliate trade union , work with Labour Members on these Benches , have put into develop a package know as the new deal for work people , now the employment right Bill . in place like my community where people work hard but all too often their pay be not what it should be , this will change life . in every corner of our country , in every constituency represent in this place where there be those work without dignity on exploitative zero - hour contract , be subject to the brutality of fire and rehire , be pay wage they can not live on , or toil as care worker or school support staff on insufficient wage , this Bill will change life in their community too , and I urge member to give it their full support when the time come . right now , for far too many , work do not pay and you only need to visit Gateshead food bank or a food bank in your constituency to see that . decent work and well pay be at the heart of why I come into politic , because dignity in work be the key that unlock everything else , but it be not all that matter . what matter too be what make the heart sing — what we do with our family and friend that make memory and elevate we above the everyday . the cultural power of my local area be too often overlook . we be the home of institution such as the Baltic centre for contemporary art and the Glasshouse on Gateshead quay , but also of small , old and no less important venue such as Shipley art gallery and the little theatre — the only theatre build in Britain during world war two . this cultural tradition have endure for century , with the work of the engraver Thomas Bewick , the writing of Daniel Defoe , who live on the south bank of the Tyne , the 18th - century comic opera of William Shield of Swalwell , the satirical song of Low Fell ' s Alex Glasgow and the rock anthem of AC / DC ' s Brian Johnson , bear in Dunston . but don ' t worry , I be not go to sing . oh , go on ! you haven ' t hear my voice . we be a place of learning , too , with Gateshead college and Cardinal Hume school — recently judge outstanding by Ofsted — two of the fantastic educational establishment I have be proud to visit already . I look forward to work with other , include Whickham school , Gibside and Kingsmeadow . in our thriving jewish community , who I be proud to represent , stand Gateshead ' s talmudical college , the old yeshiva in the country , found in 1929 . I be tell that it be the foundation upon which Gateshead gain its reputation as the Oxbridge of the jewish world . sport , too , be important to Gateshead . Sir Brendan Foster have a long and proud relationship with our town , and of course the great north run run through Gateshead . the image of people run into Gateshead over the Tyne bridge be burn on the collective consciousness of our country . the famous oarsman Harry Clasper be raise in Dunston , as be Paul Gascoigne . and we love our football , include Gateshead FC — the 2024 FA Trophy winner , by the way — even though the Boundary Commission have give the honour of be the football club ' s MP to my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow and Gateshead East ( Kate Osborne ) . the fact that my grandfather play for the club in the 1940 be a source of great pride . while most of my constituent support the black and white of Newcastle , some of we support the red and white of Sunderland and many of we be unite in our support for Gateshead too . to those Opposition Members who may be come to term with the feeling of be in the minority , let I say what my father say to I as a young man grow up a Sunderland fan in Gateshead , " it will be character building . " thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak in this debate . this be a time of great importance for our country , one where trust in this place have fall on hard time and where we must , on all side , work to rebuild it . I will do all that I can to be a voice for the people of Gateshead Central and Whickham . I will work my hard for they , and I will try to represent they to the good of my ability . I congratulate most warmly the hon . member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) . that be a tour de force around his constituency and I be absolutely certain that he will be a passionate advocate on behalf of his constituent . the only thing we miss be the opportunity for he to sing , but when we get the all - party music group together , we will give he that opportunity and the House will be able to revel in his talent on that front . I be delighted that the Speaker , in his infinite wisdom , have decide to select our amendment on the two - child benefit cap for a vote this evening . it be absolutely right that this House should make a decision on this press issue . this be the early test for Labour Members . it be an early test for their commitment to take on the scourge of child poverty across the United Kingdom . we have just have new figure from the House of Commons Library , and they be absolutely shocking . I be not go to pick on the new Labour Members because they be all new and they be all find their foot , but what this do to our nation be utterly appalling . we know that 87 , 100 child in Scotland be impact by this cap . I do not know if any of the Labour Members in the Chamber represent Glasgow constituency , but let ' s just have a look at Glasgow , where 4 , 500 household be be impact by this two - child benefit cap . this be the first big test for Labour Members . we know that Scottish Labour oppose this cap . we have hear its leader talk passionately about make sure it be do away with . Labour Members have get to vote tonight to show that . this be an early challenge for the hon . gentleman and hon . lady who now represent scottish constituency . this be a very much change House , and I congratulate the Labour Government on their quite stunning victory . I also want to congratulate my new Labour colleague on their victory across Scotland . I really hope they enjoy be an MP and the experience that this offer in this House , represent our wonderful nation on these green Benches , but they will know from the bitter experience of 2015 that tide come in and tide go out . the only thing that seem to be constant in scottish politic be that there will always be a Member of Parliament from the Scottish National party represent Perthshire in Scotland , and I want to thank the people of Perth and Kinross - shire for return I for a record seventh time in 23 year . I promise that I will serve they as I have serve all my constituent in the past 23 year on these Benches . immigration be the subject of the day , and this be important . this be big stuff . it be really important that the Government get this right , but I be not encourage by what I have hear so far . I be not really sure and certain that Labour really know what it want to do when it come to immigration . I have hear lot of tough talk , with strong language on deportation , enforcement and get people out of this country . what I want to hear about be the experience of these people who come to our country in appal destitution and poverty , who have live through some of the most unimaginable experience , who be real live being and who do not want the scapegoate language that have be deploy in the past . think about they ! explain to we the safe and legal route by which people can get to this country . open up a way for citizenship to be acquire . let ' s be creative , for goodness ' sake . let ' s have some of these asylum seeker work . why be it right that they have be leave unattended for so long ? surely a new Labour Government could start to get into that sort of territory , but I be not encourage by what I have hear thus far from the Labour party . we do not want a Tory hostile environment to be replace by a labour hostile environment . we need to see a well understanding and empathy about the plight of people who be leave war zone devastate and traumatise by what have happen to they . what we want to hear be a proper , thought - out , pragmatic approach to immigration that finally acknowledge the value of immigration and that have humanity and common decency at its core . that be not too much to ask from a Labour Government . this be a priority for we in Scotland . we be the only part of the United Kingdom whose population be predict to fall — by 2033 our population will be start to decline . we will have a small base of work people who be expect to support a non - active , age population , which raise a whole series of issue and difficulty for we , particularly economic issue , and this have to be address . we also have to make sure that our public service be staff . such be their current situation and condition that , if every school leaver in Scotland go into social care next year , there still would not be enough people to fill the place require . we need to hear a solution , and we be start to get there . during the general election campaign , I be encourage that the party be actually talk about a scottish visa , which be the Rolls - Royce gold standard we require . it happen in nation across the world without issue and without difficulty , so it could happen here . the nation of the United Kingdom have their own political jurisdiction , and they even have their own tax code to ensure that it can happen . we have do it before . I be a Member of this House when the previous Labour Government deliver the Fresh Talent initiative , and it work . I cheer they on when it be deliver , and it be something this government could do . if Scottish Labour Members want to go to the Home Office to demand a solution to our very real difficulty and problem , we will hold their jacket and cheer they on , but they must do something , because this be a press issue for the scottish economy . I gently say to Conservative Members that over the last couple of year we have hear such a degree of rubbish from they . they try to tell we that people would not come to Scotland from the rest of the United Kingdom , because apparently they be put off by our low council tax , our low house price , our free tuition and our free prescription charge . Most of all , they say that people would not come to Scotland because we have ask they to pay just a few more pound of income tax . well , that fox be well and truly shoot , as National Records of Scotland have show that there be net migration into Scotland , so let we not hear any more about that rubbish . I end with a plea to our scottish colleague . we want to work with they to ensure that we get scottish solution to scottish problem . it be now up to they . they have the power and the responsibility . they can make these change to sort out our immigration and , for goodness ' sake , they should back we in the Lobby tonight so that we can do something about child poverty in Scotland . I call Andy MacNae to make his maiden speech . I be grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important debate . I be in awe of the maiden speech and all the other speech that have be make today and on previous day . the standard and quality of both this intake and long - serve Members be inspiring . I be fill with excitement , pride and belief in what we can achieve in the year to come . it be a truly exciting time . I be honour and privileged to speak as the Member for Rossendale and Darwen , my home . I be very aware that this could happen only because of a huge amount of hard work by friend and Labour colleague across the constituency , and of course because of the decision make by so many of my fellow resident to put their trust in I and a change Labour party . I offer my heartfelt thank to everyone who put I in this place . I will do my very good not to let they down . my constituency and home be a special place . indeed , I be tempt to say that it represent the very good of Lancashire but , wary of controversy , I will simply say that it be a wonderful part of a wonderful county . it be a post - industrial place of moor , hill and valley that frame the community of Darwen , Whitworth , Bacup , Crawshawbooth , Stacksteads , Weir , Waterfoot , Rawtenstall , Edenfield , Helmshore and the west Pennine village — I will have miss one out , so I be sure I will be shoot as soon as I get home . in represent my home , I succeed Sir Jake Berry , who serve our constituency for 14 year . I pay tribute to he for his service and , in particular , his work campaign on provision for child with special educational need . Rossendale and Darwen be very much a swing seat . prior to 2010 , we have be splendidly represent by Janet Anderson . I be pleased and proud to call Janet a friend . we sadly lose she last year , but I will always remember she as a true role model of a constituency MP . she be always available , always responsive , always engage and always willing to roll up her sleeve and get stick in . what more can I say about Rossendale and Darwen ? I will spare member a full geography lesson and go for some fun - ish fact . first , the constituency be a quirk of boundary commission methodology that will forever remain a mystery to we . there be little historical or physical connection between Rossendale and Darwen . indeed , driver have to leave the constituency to travel between the two half . Rossendale be once know as the " golden valley " and lie at the very heart of the industrial revolution . indeed , a book on that time by local author Chris Aspin be subtitle " when Rossendale lead the world . " we be also refer to as the " valley of stone " and the flagstone in Trafalgar Square come from a Rossendale quarry . Crown , in Darwen , be Britain ' s old paint maker . in 1931 , Mahatma Gandhi come to meet mill worker in Darwen , seek to understand the hardship they be face — on reflection , that in itself be quite remarkable . he say , " they treat I as one of their own . I shall never forget that . " this sense of inclusion and understanding remain . we have many wonderful community organisation and , while be reluctant to single anyone out , I must pay tribute to the vital work do in my hometown by the Bacup family centre and Bacup Pride , and across the constituency by our volunteer - lead food bank and credit union , and keep Darwen Tidy and Civic Pride Rossendale , to which I wish the good of luck in Britain in Bloom judging this week . something we be less proud of be that Rossendale be the only local authority area in the north without any sort of commuter railway service , which be a fact that I hope the Secretary of State for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , do not become too bored of hearing . I have a few more . Darwen be home to Darwen Live , the UK ' s — and possibly Europe ' s — big free music festival . Mr Fitzpatrick ' s in Rawtenstall be Britain ' s last survive temperance bar . Darwen football club be form in 1870 and be the first club in the world to have professionally pay player . and Brent Peters , manager of Bacup Borough football club , be say to be the long - serve manager in world football . Rossendale and Darwen be distinct place , each with a deep history . at the same time , they have much in common . I be in many way hearten that , during the campaign , one of my most frequent ask be for a well politic . the people of Rossendale and Darwen be honest and hard - work . they value integrity , co - operation and community service , and they want to see this in their politician . I believe this reflect a feeling across the country , and hence it be a great opportunity and responsibility for we . with over 300 new mp , we have a real chance to set a new tone , to work together across the House and to hold to the standard that our resident expect of we . a less positive thing that Rossendale and Darwen have in common be a concern about the direction in which too many of our school have be head . too many parent agonise over the choice , or lack of choice , available to they . it simply must not be the case that a child ' s future be determine by an education lottery . that every school be a good school be an imperative we must hold to , and I be proud to see our new Labour Government commit to remove barrier to opportunity , raise school standard and ensure that the school system be fair for every child . another commonality be our topography — hill , crag , moor and valley . I be a climber and cyclist , and these be my playground . I be fortunate to have enjoy an active life , which have turn into a career . it have take I to amazing place , and I know that I be healthy , wise and happy as a result . in many way , what these sport have teach I be what have bring I here . it be a sad fact that , in the UK today , nearly 40 % of the population be not active enough for good health . this contribute to one in six death and be estimate to cost the UK economy £ 7 . 6 billion annually . yet physical activity can help to prevent and manage over 20 chronic disease and condition , include some cancer , heart disease , type 2 diabete and depression . overall , it be recognise that £ 1 spend on physical activity generate £ 4 of benefit in return . in short , invest in physical activity be a no - brainer . it have be hearten to see the importance of prevention recognise so clearly in our manifesto , in this debate and , indeed , at Question Time this morning . sport and physical activity can change life , and they can save life . active life start young , yet around 50 % of under - 18 do not get enough exercise . how often do we hear kid tell we , " there be nothing to do around here " ? I believe that every child should feel they have full and inclusive access to the countryside and to recreational facility that give they the opportunity to live active life , escape constraint and explore their potential . I believe this mission underpin many other , and I look forward to speak again on this subject in the year to come . the hill of Rossendale matter to I in other way . on the moor close to home we scatter the ashe of our daughter , Mallorie . she have be bear in Burnley hospital with Edward ' s syndrome , a condition we be tell be not compatible with life . her time with we be short but her impact on our life be great . the support we have from Burnley hospital and local baby loss charity friend of Serenity be vital . while Edward ' s syndrome be rare , it be far from be the only cause of baby loss . every day , an average of 13 family suffer the pain of baby loss — that be around 5 , 000 family a year . some report suggest that up to one in five of those family tragedy be avoidable . there be a grow movement around baby loss awareness . indeed , in October we have Baby Loss Awareness Week . I hope to use my time in this House to support the ongoing drive for great care and support for the family affect by baby loss and for continued improvement in its prevention . rise — on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . yesterday , I table an amendment to the Humble Address that read : " at end add ' and submit that the Government should immediately recognise the state of Palestine . ' " the wording be confirm by I to the Table Office at 4 . 40 pm yesterday . it be co - sign by the hon . member for Blackburn ( Mr Hussain ) , for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) , for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) and the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . order . be it the hon . Gentleman ' s intention to challenge the ruling of Mr Speaker when he select the amendment to be vote on tonight ? what be his point of order ? far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be the fact that the amendment be not table despite be submit to the Table Office on time . I note what the hon . Gentleman have say , but I do not think that would have make any difference to Mr Speaker ' s decision about which amendment the House will be vote on later . however , his point be note . I call Nigel Farage to make his maiden speech . I believe it be customary in a maiden speech for the Member to pay tribute to their predecessor , which I be very happy to do . Giles Watling be a very decent , nice , honourable man . he be a former actor who wear his Garrick club tie . there be nothing even vaguely conservative about he , but he be a jolly nice chap , and it be a clean - fought campaign . early , the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) make reference to Clacton as be the place for a traditional english seaside holiday , and indeed it be , with its pier , mile of sandy beach and arcade . perhaps it be not as popular a holiday destination as it use to be , now that people go to Spain and elsewhere , but it be still there . other part of the constituency be genteel and quite wealthy , but if we go to Jaywick we find the most deprived community in the whole United Kingdom . those community have little faith , trust or belief that Government can make their life well . indeed , what I find , when knock on door , be that people be say , " we want to work — we want to get on and make money — but as soon as we work 16 hour a week or more , our benefit get take away , so we ' re well off stay on benefit . " I feel immensely sorry for those people , because the benefit system , which be design to help they , be actually keep they trap in level of relative poverty . I will do my good as the MP for the area to bring business investment — private money — into the constituency , with job , training and skill . I can not promise that I will do it , but I will do my absolute damnedest to make it happen . it be funny , because I spend nearly 21 year as a Member of the European Parliament , in Brussels and with its monthly journey to Strasbourg . I have to say that this place be very different indeed . it be small . there be not a chauffeur - drive Mercedes available for each Member . there be no large lump sum of money that member do not have to spend on anything or show receipt for . I wonder whether that be why so many in the british political system seem to adore the European Union so much , because it be a rather wonderful place to work . what I do not expect be to come here and find that I , with my reform team , be more outnumber here than we be in the European Parliament , because there be more supporter of Brexit in the European Parliament than I sense there be in this Parliament of 2024 . this be very much a remainer ' Parliament . I suspect , in many case , that it be really a rejoiner ' Parliament . if we look at the King ' s Speech , it be interesting that the word " immigration " be mention only twice and " asylum " just once . perhaps that be not a surprise , as when the now Prime Minister lay out the six big priority for the Labour party before the general election , he do not mention legal or illegal immigration . that be the other area in which the five of we sit on the Reform Bench will find ourselves massively outnumber in the House , because we actually want to talk about these issue . I believe that the population explosion be have a big impact on the quality of life of ordinary folk than any other issue . it all start , of course , when the current Home Secretary become a Member of Parliament back in May 1997 . it be worth remind ourselves that net migration be the same during the late 1940 , the whole of the 1950 , the whole of the 1960 , the whole of the 1970 , the whole of the 1980 and in the 1990 , up until Mr Blair . net migration run at 30 , 000 to 50 , 000 a year for over half a century . then Mr Blair get in and decide that we be go to open the door in a way that have never be do before , to the delight and joy of big company , especially giant multinational , who have always want as much cheap labour as they can get , and to hell with the consequence for working - class family and people . perhaps it be even more of a surprise to see that massive acceleration in our population through immigration then far accelerate , because despite promise in four consecutive manifesto , the conservative party actually accelerate what have happen under the year of Mr Blair , so we have see a population increase of 10 million people since the time that Labour win its last landslide . even the net figure be a migrant a minute . even during the course of this debate , many hundred more people will have come to our country . nobody be make the argument that there be not some exceptionally wonderful people among they — there be , of course — but the sheer level of population mean we have to build a new house every two minute . even if the Labour Government be able to fulfil the 1 . 5 million house that they want to build during the lifetime of this Parliament , that will make no dent at all in the current shortage of housing . rent have rise by 25 % since 2021 . why ? Population increase and pressure . the list go on , from access to health service to congestion and pressure on infrastructure . the population crisis have the big impact on people ' s life , damage their quality of life , and virtually nobody in this place even want to talk about it . it be on illegal immigration that I really want to make a point . four year ago , I go out into the english channel repeatedly , film dinghy come across the channel , with an average of 16 people per boat . I be describe as be a sad , lonely , desperate figure , always seek attention , and I have no doubt there be some who think that be still the case today . spot on . thank you . but I do it because it be obvious to I what be go to happen . it be obvious that there would be a huge influx of people illegally come to Britain across the english channel , and it would happen because we have stop deport people who come to Britain illegally . perhaps the Labour party might want to reflect on the last period of Labour government , when we have Home secretary such as David Blunkett , who be far , far to the right of people like the shadow Home Secretary today . if someone come to Britain illegally during the last Labour Government , their foot do not touch the ground — they be go ; they be out . indeed , in the last year of that Labour Government , from 2009 to 2010 , 50 , 000 people who come here illegally be deport . none of that happen any more . it do not happen under 14 year of the Conservatives and it clearly be not go to happen under this Labour Government , and I wonder why . I think we will find that it be because of the increase role of a court overseas that be set up in the wake of world war two with the very good of intention , but that have now completely outlive its usefulness . it be , of course , the European Court of Human Rights , and it be a Labour Government who enshrine the convention into british law . we will not stop the boat , even if we send a handful to Rwanda . we will not stop the boat by attempt to smash the criminal gang ; we have be do that to the drug industry in Britain , year after year , decade after decade , with no success whatsoever . the financial reward for smuggle people across the english channel can now net a gang € 2 million to € 3 million a week . whatever prison sentence or penalty be put upon they , there will always be people volunteer to make million of euro a week . we will stop this only if we start deport people who come illegally . then they will not pay the smuggler . but we will do that only by leave the echr . I have a fun suggestion that would liven up politic , engage the public and see a massively increase turnout . why do we not have a referendum on whether we continue to be a member of the ECHR ? I call Lola McEvoy to make her maiden speech . it be customary to pay tribute to the speaker before I for his first contribution to this House , but , let we face it , that be quite a polished contribution that he have have 21 year to prepare — so thank you to he . this be my maiden speech as the first woman to represent Darlington from the Government Benches . I wish to pay tribute to Baroness Chapman , the first female MP for Darlington , for pave the way . she smash that glass ceiling and now I have the privilege of serve our town in a Labour Government . representation matter , and I will use my platform to highlight the issue face woman in the town — issue such as low - pay work , additional care responsibility , the childcare crisis , menopause discrimination , maternity service and poor paternity right . I will also be a champion for woman ' s health and support service . I wish to pay tribute to the work of our police and crime commissioner , my friend Joy Allen and her team , on end violence against woman and girl in the town and to Harbour and Family Help , which do exceptional work in very difficult time . I be proud that this Labour Government will bring forward strong legislation to tackle this important issue . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor Peter Gibson , first for his respect throughout the general election campaign and secondly for his work ethic . trust in politician across both side of this House be at an all - time low , and Mr Gibson work tirelessly to communicate positively to everyone in Darlington about the work that he be do . People thank he for it , and I will emulate it . I genuinely wish he well . I be a product of my constituency and proud of it . I be from good stock : west end star Zoe Birkett of " Pop Idol " fame go to my high school ; " Big Brother " winner and man ' s mental health campaigner Anthony Hutton be a Darlington resident ; and we have a proud and active veteran community . in fact , two of the brilliant Doorkeepers in this Chamber tell I early that they know Darlington well because of their training at Catterick Garrison , just outside my constituency . I thank Dan Smith , an active campaigner for veteran support in Darlington , for his work for our town and for his friendship to I during the campaign . we have a bustling business and hospitality community across the town . we have Dan the Bakerman , whose sourdough be nationally acclaim , the Echo 3 and Hatch coffee house , which keep I caffeinate , and Claire from the Cheese & Wine Shop who herself welcome our Prime Minister and Chancellor very recently . we have a brilliant sporting community , from Spraire Lads football team , which my brother use to play for , to the Headlanders netball club and the Hundens Lane bowl club to name just a few . it would be remiss of I not to mention the Quakers , Darlington ' s football club , which have a very famous alumnus in the Three Lions ' well ever goalkeeper , Jordan Pickford . like many of we from Darlington , I love the town , I like a laugh , I work hard and I do not like to be take for a fool . I be send here to right the wrong that have lead to too many in our town be let down , and I will do just that . I will not lose sight of those who send I and go above and beyond to put their time and trust in I — my teacher , the St Augustine ' s community , my Labour family and , of course , my parent , my brother and my husband , all of whom have have their personal life thrust right into my political story , not entirely through choice , but in the name of our common goal , which be a well future for our community . I be lucky to be here . I get a second chance on a vocational master ' s degree at Newcastle University , where I be teach on the job how to be a journalist . I come from a long line of people who have do well for themselves than be expect of they , and I will dedicate my time in Parliament to knock down barrier to opportunity for everyone in our town , so that no matter their postcode they can live the life they want , well . I be inspire by those who go before I on our brilliant Northern Echo paper , which be found in 1870 — two year after the constituency of Darlington — and still boast fantastic campaigning journalist . they include Chris Lloyd , the town ' s historian — I be mention he in this speech so that he will help with my new blue plaque scheme for the town — and Kayleigh Fraser , who be still chase I for a quote . sorry , Kayleigh . this Saturday just go , I have the joy of visit a new tourist attraction in Darlington — Hopetown , name after the area of the town in which I grow up , where Darlington ' s famous contribution to the railway and the industrial revolution be base . the new attraction incorporate our railway heritage and have incredible artefact , top - of - the - range art installation and digital interactive educational point to tell our story to visitor . I be tell member this because I welcome everyone — on both side of the House — to come and visit . when they do , they must try the Black Diamond ice cream ; it be already take off on social medium . I have huge pride in the town ' s industrial contribution and I be delighted to be the first Darlington Member to represent Heighington and Coniscliffe , and with they come their beautiful village and even more railway history . Mr Deputy Speaker , this be for you to note especially . I learn something new about my home town this weekend . before the establishment of the railway , our clock be not standardise and Darlington operate a full four minute behind Westminster , so , as those who know I well will attest , I still like to operate on Darlington time . as a nod to tradition , I shall be keep to my town ' s original time for the duration of my time on these Benches . one of the artefact that catch my eye in the museum , among the railway medal and the framed timetable , be an award from 2019 for the manufacture giant Cleveland Bridge . like so many brilliant company over recent year , Cleveland Bridge have cease trading . what make this company particularly of note be its vast global contribution . it build the Sydney harbour bridge and , in fact , the former Health Secretary and Labour Darlington MP , the right hon . Alan Milburn , reference it in his maiden speech two decade ago . I be determined that our manufacturing contribution in Darlington be not consign to museum and the history book . we be proud people and we be grafter . we do not need handout ; we need a Government who allow our brilliance to shine again . I have already have the excellent engineering firm cummin to Parliament to discuss make our area a green hydrogen cluster and ensure that hydrogen be at the heart of our decarbonisation strategy . I look forward to work with my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , an expert in green hydrogen and the future of steel , in his new brief . over the course of the campaign that lead up to my election , the big thread from the people of Darlington , from people of every income , background and political persuasion , be that the cost of living be too high and public service be at break point . I firmly believe that this Government must urgently tackle the mental health crisis blight our town and region . in my own network , I know seven man who have die by suicide . mental health waiting time and service for man , mother , child and veteran be way behind where they need to be . I will be relentless in my approach to improve our mental health service for everyone in our town . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , who I know share my passion for equity between mental health and physical health , will not be able to avoid I , just as soon as I can work my way around the Palace labyrinth . as a woman in politic , I be frequently offer unsolicited advice and tell that I need a thick skin , although I firmly believe that those with too thick a skin have be rule this Chamber for too long , and I be here to represent ordinary people with compassion , because I be one of they . I be only too aware of the embolden effect that online platform give bully and harasser . I think we have reach a fork in the road and I will use my position to stamp out online bullying , not just for those who be victim of it now , but for the next generation , who I believe we have a duty to protect . this Labour Government be commit to tackle climate change and wealth creation , and that be an opportunity for our region that must be grab with both hand . that be why I have already visit Hitachi with my neighbour and friend the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) , to put my full support behind effort to secure the future of skilled and essential job at the Newton Aycliffe plant that employ many of my constituent . the Treasury and many other key Departments have a presence in my constituency , provide skilled graduate job , which we welcome and want to build on . I will be a champion for public money be well spend . I have make my career improve public procurement contract , fight for work people to earn a wage they can live on and have decent term and condition . I will use that experience to ensure that when public money be spend in Darlington , it provide the good possible bang for our buck in impact and outcome for our town . I will be a loud voice on this issue and will work with everyone and anyone who believe , like I do , that we can get our regional economy thrive with decent job for local people , so that people can work hard and earn enough to save for their future , and have safe , secure housing and spend quality time with their family . I be very fortunate that the Chancellor will be visit her second office in Darlington regularly and I be committed to maximise the opportunity that bring to benefit my community . my constituency and everyone in it have the potential for a bright future , and I will do everything I can to secure it . while I want to make our country well , my priority be improve the life of those in my home town , those who raise I , those who have send I here — the good people of Darlington . so , in keep with my railway theme , full steam ahead ! rise — before call the next speaker , I have to announce that we will have to reduce the time limit for speech by all those other than maiden speaker to five minute . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) . I congratulate she on a fantastic maiden speech . I know she will be a proud champion for her area . I must start my first speech of this Parliament by express to my constituent how humble I be to be elect as their new Member of Parliament for Epping Forest . Epping Forest have give so much to I and my family over so many year and it be an honour and privilege to try to repay that and stand up in Westminster for our fantastic community . I can not mention my constituency without mention my predecessor , Dame Eleanor Laing . I pay tribute to her 27 year of tireless service on behalf of Epping Forest and this place , as an MP , in shadow Cabinet and as Deputy Speaker and Chairman of Ways and Means . she be in the Chair for my maiden speech , a very personal and emotional occasion , a few day after the passing of my father Christopher , her constituent whom she know so well . I be so pleased that she will continue in public service in the other place . our area be privileged to have be represent not only by Dame Eleanor Laing , but by the former Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill , who represent the then seat of Epping from 1924 to 1945 . today we be talk about home affair and security . I want to pay tribute to our brave , hard - work police on the frontline , who be keep our street and community safe and secure in Essex and right across the country ; to our brilliant Essex police , fire and crime commissioner Roger Hirst ; and to our chief constable , Ben - Julian Harrington . they have truly lead the way in reduce crime , with antisocial behaviour down by at least 63 % in the past five year . I firmly believe that that need to continue . I know , of course , that my constituent in Epping Forest feel that there be a lot more we need to do to keep our community secure and safe ; their concern include violent crime , fly - tipping , drug crime , burglary , shoplifting , fraud and car crime . we also need to think about international security . I be proud that the previous Conservative Government support Ukraine and I be pleased that the new Labour Government will be do that as well . I be disappoint that the new Government omit from the King ' s Speech our cast - iron commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence ; I really urge they to move forward on that quickly . I welcome the fact that in the King ' s Speech mental health be give the same attention and focus as physical health . parity of esteem between mental and physical health be so important ; it be something that I have raise since my maiden speech . I urge the Government to confirm the work we do with 3 dad walk to get age - appropriate suicide prevention on to the school curriculum to protect our young people . as a veterinary surgeon , I be disappoint by the lack of any mention of animal health and welfare in the King ' s Speech . in the last Parliament , huge stride be make to bolster our reputation in the area of animal welfare , with the Animal Welfare Sentencing Act 2021 and the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 . I urge the Government to continue that progress and to support legislation on issue such as ban the smuggling of puppy and heavily pregnant dog and the importation of dog with cropped ear . Epping Forest be a beautiful area and have precious green space , but I be nervous that the Labour Government will put some of that in jeopardy by re - badge the green belt as grey belt . we must make sure that new housing be put in the right place and that infrastructure be protect . I urge this government to carry on with the capital build project commit to by the previous Conservative Government : a new community diagnostic centre at St Margaret ' s hospital in Epping and rebuild for the Princess Alexandra hospital in Harlow and Whipps Cross hospital — hospital my constituent depend on . those project be commit to by the previous Government and I urge the Labour Government to carry on with they in full . it be important that we as a constructive opposition help this government to serve our community and get thing right , but that we point out thing when we feel they be get they wrong . I wish this Government well , and I look forward to work with colleague across the House on important issue of public health , animal health and welfare , protect our green space and ensure that our constituent have access to the good health and education system that they deserve . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , who I be delighted to see back in this place , and all the new member who have make fantastic maiden speech in this debate . it be a huge honour to be re - elect to represent my community in Liverpool West Derby , and to continue to serve in the place I grow up , especially under a Labour Government . it be fantastic to welcome into my constituency the new ward of Page Moss , Swanside and Old Swan . it have be a real pleasure meet my new constituent , who do so much for our community . I look forward to work with Jan and her team at Swanside Community Centre , Rhiannon and her team at the Gate Community Centre , and Kate and her fantastic team at the Joseph Lappin Centre . I be delighted that we now have a Labour Government with an historic mandate for change from the british public — a mandate to end the destruction of working - class community ; to end the decimation of public service ; and to end austerity and create opportunity for all , lift million of people out of poverty . we must boldly seize this opportunity to deliver on the trust place in we . on behalf of so many family in my constituency , I will continue to campaign for the right to food to be enshrine in UK law , so that everyone be legally protect from the scourge of hunger and we can end the obscene growth of food bank since 2010 , which be cause by political choice . as a proud trade unionist , I be delighted that the Government will legislate for a new deal for work people . I have see the human cost of fire and rehire with my brother , who be a victim of the british Gas cull , and many constituent have write to I about their experience . as a former trade union organiser with Unite , I know the difference trade union can make in the workplace , improve term and condition and transform life and the economy . I welcome the Bills that will bring rail service into public ownership and at last allow community to take their bus service back into public ownership . I look forward to work with the metro mayor to achieve that . I be also delighted to see the return of the football governance Bill , which I be proud to scrutinise in Committee during the previous Parliament . give football supporter a real voice in shape the beautiful game be vital to secure its future and continued success . a shameful legacy of the previous Government and their austerity agenda be that 43 % of child in Liverpool West Derby be now live in poverty . the reason I be in Parliament be to ensure that those child and other like they be give a chance to thrive and live their good life under a government who support they , rather than consign they to a life of limit opportunity from an early age . that be why I wholly support the removal of the two - child cap on benefit , which would immediately lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . finally , I welcome the inclusion of a Hillsborough law in the King ' s Speech . shamefully , no one have be hold accountable for the unlawful killing of 97 people and the injury and endure trauma suffer at Hillsborough , despite the 2016 verdict of the long inquest in this country ' s history . I pay tribute to all family , survivor , campaigner and legal expert such as Pete Weatherby , Elkan Abrahamson and Debbie Coles , who have fight for a change to the law to ensure that the pain and suffering of the Hillsborough family and survivor be not repeat , and that there be a fit and lasting legacy . I also pay tribute to the many member and former member of this place who have fight across party for that law . many people would benefit from a Hillsborough law . I have have the privilege of hear directly from people affect by a range of scandal and tragedy , include the Post Office Horizon scandal , Grenfell , covid - 19 , the " Truth about Zane " campaign , nuclear test veteran , the Manchester arena bombing , the infected blood scandal and hormone pregnancy test . what be clear in those case and many more be that the Hillsborough playbook have be use time and again by public servant and institution . they be still allow to withhold the truth , lie about their action and blame victim for their own failure and mistake . that be why a full Hillsborough law be urgently need , include a legal duty of candour on all public body and parity of legal representation to ensure that the scale of justice be rebalance . the 97 who be unlawfully kill at Hillsborough , their family and survivor , and indeed all who have suffer such a fate at the hand of the state , deserve nothing less than the legacy of a Hillsborough law implement in full . that would begin to end the culture of state cover - up that have shame our nation for far too long . for his maiden speech , I call Richard Tice . may I congratulate the hon . member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) , my hon . friend the Member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) and other on their excellent maiden speech ? it be a great honour to represent Boston and Skegness , which I believe be the most fertile constituency in the country . I refer of course to the productivity of the amazing agricultural farmland in the constituency . at the heart of it be Batemans Brewery , a fantastic family brewery launch in 1874 . good beer . good beer indeed . there be the extraordinary engineering feature of a lattice of ditch , dyke , drain , river and haven that ensure that the farmland be productive . at the eastern end of this great constituency be sunny Skegness , where million go for their holiday every year — the home of the first Butlin ' s , in 1936 — and where the fourth long pier in the country be build in the late 1880 . it be an extraordinary and remarkable town . it have the benefit of produce what I think be possibly the good value , most delicious and great portion of ice cream , to which I be very partial . if we head west from Skegness , over the farmland , we reach the historic market town of Boston . it have the tall parish church tower in England — know as " the Stump " — build over 500 year ago . a couple of hundred year ago , Boston be the large trading port outside London . of course , it be Bostonians who , in 1630 , leave the Isle of Wight for north America , where they establish Boston , Massachusetts . it be a remarkable constituency that I be proud to represent . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mr Matt Warman , who be the MP for nine year . his legacy be in healthcare in particular . we be build at the moment a £ 40 million accident and emergency facility — he play a role in that . he save a child ' s unit from close , and he have a significant role in secure the diagnostic care unit that be under construction . those be great achievement . there be a reason I overturn the large ever conservative majority in the country . despite the Jolly Fisherman be the symbol of Skegness , my constituent be not feel very jolly at the moment . seven out of 10 of they vote to leave the European Union . they trust the previous Government — they take they at their word — but they now feel a sense of political betrayal in a number of area . the first people who be not very jolly be the fisherman themselves , who feel that various bureaucrat include the Environment Agency , Natural England and the Inshore Fisheries and Conservation Authorities be act so as to try to suppress or destroy this great industry for our seafaring nation , one that produce food and generate great revenue . in addition , bureaucrat be make the issue of flood a serious problem in my constituency . thousand of home have be flood , and with a failure to properly maintain sea level defence , ten of thousand of home be at risk , again because of bureaucracy and inertia . another reason why my constituent be really quite grumpy be that the stupid net zero policy will result in hundred of massive , ugly pylon blight the environment and countryside of my constituency , as well as solar farm plan on incredibly productive agricultural farmland . it be absolute idiocy . then , of course , there be another big issue that be make my constituent very grumpy indeed . one of the slogan for leave the European Union be to take back control . the previous Government promise it ; do you remember that slogan ? it be about money , law and border — yes , border . it be about control immigration and have smart immigration — work , integrate and speak the language — which we should all agree be a great thing . instead , the previous Government open the door to mass immigration , with significant consequence for town such as Boston and other town up and down the country . I will give member an example . every morning in the centre of Boston , dozen and dozen of east Europeans arrive in the marketplace with nothing to do . they have be hoof out of the house in multiple occupation where they be hot - bed — two or three shift a day on the same mattress — because of mass , uncontrolled immigration . they have get nothing to do , and they have be aid and abet in come to the UK by false promise make by morally bankrupt business , which be help they to get national insurance number for overseas person under a scheme that we think have close . we think the EU settlement scheme have close , but it turn out that it have not . if someone fib about how much time they have spend here before 2020 , they can still apply , so many be still arrive , and they be not integrate . they be not learn the language , and regrettably , it create an intimidating atmosphere in the centre of the town — I know this go on elsewhere . the implication be most seriously feel by woman who work in the town centre , who feel unsafe leave their place of work , and by constituent who do not want to go into the centre of this great market town at night because they fear , frankly , that it be not safe . when they go there at night , there be no chance of see any police whatsoever — I have be there on a number of occasion . what those people will see be drug dealer in the centre of the marketplace , ply their hideous , vile trade night in and night out . that be completely unacceptable . during the election campaign , I go to numerous house ; for example , there be one where seven people be live in a house with two bedroom . it be a bulgarian family , and only one member of that family speak any English at all . they say , " we ' re here to claim benefit — your health benefit and housing benefit . we would prefer it in Bulgaria , but we want to take your benefit and then send the money home . " that be what be go on up and down the country , and it be completely unacceptable . [ interruption . ] there be mutter — the truth hurt . the establishment do not want to talk about this , do they ? order . the convention be that during maiden speech , everybody keep very quiet . whatever you think of what be be say , for a maiden speech , keep quiet . I repeat that smart immigration — work , integrate , speak the language — be a great thing , but there be serious consequence of uncontrolled mass immigration . as Member of Parliament for this great constituency , my objective be to attract more business and more investment . the great port of Boston need to grow and expand , and we want more infrastructure — for example , a new bypass around Boston itself . with these thing , my constituency of Boston and Skegness can be great once again . I call Jo White to make her maiden speech . I begin by thank the people of Bassetlaw for put I here . my commitment be to serve all resident to the good of my ability . I thank the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) for his contribution , and I look forward to debate with he in this place . today ' s debate have a direct link to the ongoing discussion on poverty . have see the last Government shut all three bassetlaw police station and both courthouse , I will have much to say on the issue in this Parliament . crime and poverty have a clear connection . I need no lesson on how a lack of money impact on child grow up — I live it — but that experience teach I something far more valuable in understand the impact of poverty and inequality , because what my family lack in money , we more than make up for in love and in hope and dream . I be bring up to believe in I and what I could achieve . my mother get herself out of poverty because of the Open University , and my father make a choice all too familiar today . he give up his engineering job to be a Sainsbury ' s warehouseman to guarantee cheap food , and of course he serve as a shop steward for USDAW . I remain proud of both my parent for what they do for I . I be a free school meal kid — separate queue , of course — and a free school uniform kid , with clothe from the jumble sale and no new , smart , bright white sock for I , but I have no poverty of aspiration , no hold back , no shutting down of my dream . that be good parenting , back by their hard work . I commute six hour every day to complete my own study , take my newborn baby in a carrycot with I . that be what learn to aspire result in . I get the little I ' s so common in bassetlaw and elsewhere : they be my people , my responsibility . money be often a problem , but poverty of aspiration be much a big one to overcome . you be tell that you can not do that , that this door be not for you , that you stink , that you be thick , that your hope be only ever dream and can never be realise ; well , this kid never stop dream . today ' s little I ' s — the one who do without the flashy trainer , who play outside but never go inside the big sport stadium or the posh restaurant and the caf é s , who do not fly on aeroplane or get take to museum or theatre , who have never see the King or his palace or Big Ben — in my area , in my constituency of bassetlaw , be too often expect by this place to celebrate a rapidly change world by get to the back of the queue and behave themselves . I be not have that . I drive truck across the channel — the only woman in the driver ’ section on the ferry . small boat — new problem ? the flight case I drive be huge , with ventilation and a false bottom . the border sniffer dog be an infrequent luxury . I regularly run the gauntlet of organised crime and desperate people . my predecessor have the big swing in 2019 . I break the record again but then quickly lose it to even more historic big swing to Labour . I know he like his beer and I applaud his regular support for our local pub , where he can drown his sorrow every time his beloved Notts County football club fail to deliver . I do not know whether he be plan on take up golf , but bassetlaw be the centre of british golf with seven serious golf course , Ryder cup host and star player , and a magnificent municipal golf course . we regularly provide more of the Ryder cup team than entire golfing country and Joe Dean of College Pines golf club show the potential to reach these height at the Open this weekend . from Danny Willett to Matt Fitzpatrick , we continue to grow international golfer — Lee Westwood , our freedom of the borough champion , continue to inspire our young boy and girl . he learn his trade on the council - run golf course , which be open and affordable to all . nobody stop I dream big and that be the bassetlaw I intend to deliver . my style of be an MP will be outcome - base . if I can do it , then so can you . look not only at where you be , but at where you be go . this kid make it here and I put you all on warning : I will be knock on the door that kid in my area do not go through , and they will be come with I , and I can assure you that I will channel my inner Michael Caine for those of you who choose to ignore my knock . the big single crime would be to get here , where people like I be not suppose to be , and merely sit here and make up the number . this kid have only just begin and there be no time to waste . it be inspirational to listen to the story of the hon . member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) and her determination to never stop dream . it be also inspirational and fantastic to hear maiden speech from many other . I be interested to hear the competition among some member about the length of pier in seaside town . I hail from the great town of Eastbourne . while some hon . member might have a long pi than mine , it be important to remember that what you do with it be most important . on our pier we have caf é s , we have bar and we have a former nightclub , at which I once organise party . we have get it all go on on Eastbourne pier . but it be also an inspiration , look around this House and read about its member , to see and be part of the most diverse Parliament ever : more woman than ever before ; more LGBT people than ever before ; and more Joshes than ever before — this House ' s population of Joshes go from zero to seven overnight on 4 July . that be what we call an open - door policy . if member struggle to remember which Josh I be , I can make it very simple for they : this Josh represent Eastbourne , officially the sunny town in the UK . as an Eastbourne lad bear and breed , it be the honour of my life to represent my home town and in particular to fight to protect service at our local hospital where I be bear , the Eastbourne district general hospital , as our Member of Parliament . I be so grateful to the people of Eastbourne for place their trust in I . gorgeous sunray aside , my town shine brightly in the many other accolade that it hold too . we be the home of the first roller - skate ice rink in the UK in 1875 , the first five - a - side football tournament in 1957 , and the birthplace of the Arctic roll in 1958 . most personally , Eastbourne be the town that make I . home be not always safe when I be grow up , but thank to a wonderful family who love I , thank to Scout leader at 1st Seaside troop who challenge I , and thank to teacher at cavendish school who believe in I , Eastbourne give I opportunity . in fact , there be a particular supply teacher I have who I want to pay tribute to right now : Caroline Ansell , who go on to become the Conservative MP for Eastbourne and be my predecessor . Mrs Ansell and I first meet in the religious education classroom — room 116 in cavendish school — when I be 15 year old . perhaps she would have give I a detention or two have she know at that time that one day I would come for her next job at the ballot box some year later . but seriously , Caroline dedicate herself to Eastbourne , and I put my recognition of her commitment on the record . I also pay tribute to another predecessor : Stephen Lloyd , my good friend , whose service to our town inspire my own . he be a complete and utter legend . there be another predecessor as the Member of Parliament for Eastbourne whose memory this House can , and must , never forget : Ian Gow , who serve from 1974 until he be appallingly assassinate in 1990 . a few year before my time , Ian Gow be remember and still admire by Eastbournians as an extremely hard - work member of Parliament . the shield that honour he in this House serve as a reminder of his service , his grave sacrifice and our duty to pursue debate and disagreement with civility , respect and peace . turn to the subject of this debate , I want to share a migration story that say a lot about the character of my town . it start on a summer ' s day in 1960 Eastbourne , when a sweet , retired lady , Mrs Baker , notice a curious sight . she see another lady , also white , push a small black boy in a pram . Mrs Baker , curious , strike up a conversation with that woman and ask what be go on . Mrs Baker learn that the boy have be send to live with that woman by a young nigerian couple , and she be care for the boy while the couple study in London . inspire , Mrs Baker say that she would love to do the same . coincidentally , the black boy ' s mother be pregnant again , and be for a third time a couple of year later . baby two and three be send to live with the Baker family in Eastbourne . they be Toki Babarinde and Wale Babarinde , my uncle and my dad , and it be part of a sort of private fostering arrangement that be not uncommon between west african family and white family at that time , although it be not without its complication . in my dad ' s case , and for his brother too , move to Eastbourne be a ticket to opportunity . they love their upbringing and Eastbourne embrace they . sadly , my uncle Toki die early this year . Sat in the chapel during his funeral , I turn behind I , and among a sea of nigerian face be one white lady also pay her respect : Charmaine Baker from the Baker family . that moment give I goosebump , just like those moment when old - school Eastbournians look at I in all my brownness , all my gayness and all my working - class - rootedness and say , " Josh , you be one of our own . " I share that story to say that while Eastbourne ' s hospitality tradition be often associate with the mighty bucket and spade , they go far deeply . Eastbourne ' s true hospitality tradition be of generosity , welcome , tolerance , multiculturalism and compassion . the story of how I end up in this House be testament to that , and I believe that with those value the same go for our country , regardless of what other member in various place in this House may say . while our town benefit from more sunshine hour than any other in the country , that blare sun sometimes cast shadow , too . I be gutte to say that Eastbourne be also home to the busy food bank in the country . last year , it distribute more food parcel per head than any other food bank in the UK , accord to the Trussell Trust . that be why , work with Eastbourne food bank ' s inspirational ceo , Howard Wardle , I lead Eastbourne to become the first council in the country to declare a cost of live emergency and to unlock emergency funding for those struggle most . it be also why I sincerely believe that the Government should be even more ambitious in lead the fight against poverty by scrap the two - child benefit cap . a compassionate state be by no mean a state that make we soft or weak . in fact , care be power . we can not have enterprise , innovation or justice if we do not have a culture of care and compassion . that have underpin my career ' s work , found and run an organisation support vulnerable young people out of crime , out of gang and into employment . our constituent have send we here to be bold in rebuild and reimagine our great country ' s spirit of have one another ' s back . as Eastbourne ' s MP , I will strive to achieve nothing less . it be a pleasure to take part in the debate and to see labour ' s Home Office team in their place . may I congratulate the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) on a charming speech ? under the previous Government , we become used to theatrical announcement of legislation on crime and punishment that go nowhere while the infrastructure of our court and prison decay , so I be encourage last week to hear the straightforward way in which the Lord Chancellor make her statement on the prison population . the overcrowding of prison be a problem that the Labour Government inherit , and a problem that they intend to solve . the early release scheme run by the previous Administration be chaotic : the probation service be completely overstretch and prisoner be be release without support . I have speak before in the House about the appalling condition in our prison , most recently after a visit to Wormwood Scrubs prison , which be sadly no long in my constituency . I visit the Scrubs with the previous prison Minister , the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) . despite the good effort of governor and staff , we be meet with overcrowding , double up in single cell with unshielded toilet , 23 - hour lock - up and a building subject to extreme of temperature due to antiquated heating and cool system . be it any wonder that with the prison population so high and condition near uninhabitable , prison as a rehabilitative exercise be a thing of the past ? one might think that the squalor and violence that blight many prison act as a deterrent ; in fact , it ingrain and normalise the culture of offend and reoffende . I welcome the announcement from the Government and the Home Secretary in the knife crime action plan . it be right that we ban the sale of zombie knife , ninja sword and machete , but there be another angle to this . home Office homicide statistic show that more than 40 % of all death from knife attack be cause by kitchen knife . two year ago , the elderly parent of one of my constituent be stab to death by a man with a serious mental health condition who then kill himself . the weapon in those horrific crime be a kitchen knife take from his family home . in the past , I facilitate meeting between Home Office official and campaigner call for knife for general sale to be make with rounded tip . that be a simple but effective way of reduce death and serious injury , which I hope the Government will take up . another problem inherit from the previous Government , and one that I know will be a top priority for the Lord Chancellor , be the court backlog . there be a human cost to the backlog : victim of crime waiting year for justice , child trap in limbo in the family court system , and the bereaved waiting year for inquest in the coroner court . those issue be inextricably link with other failing of the previous Government , include the systematic destruction of legal aid result in a chronic shortage of legal aid provider , an unprecedented barrister ’ strike , and court in such a bad state of disrepair that they be unable to function . all of we who have be involve in the legal profession know how important the role of legal aid and early advice be , and we look forward to the full implementation of the Bellamy review . there be many more problem within the justice system that this Government will seek to address over the next few year . the Criminal Cases Review Commission must be make fit for purpose . here again , the Lord Chancellor have already take action . the terrible mistake in devise and expand imprisonment for public protection must be unwound . Anti - SLAPP legislation be need to protect free speech . it would also be good to see the implementation of Lord Leveson ' s proposal for low - cost arbitration in medium case . finally , I know that the Lord Chancellor be committed to introduce all aspect of the propose Hillsborough law , alongside legal aid to victim of state actor , to create a level playing field in inquest and inquiry . a welcome addition would be the national oversight mechanism propose by Inquest and other campaign group to ensure that inquiry recommendation be actually implement . it be a great relief to know that justice and home affair issue be back at the top of the Government ' s list of priority . I have no doubt that this Labour Government will achieve the change they promise , and I be look forward to work with colleague to help make that happen . I believe that tribute have not yet be pay to the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) for his fantastic maiden speech — I apologise if I do not notice that . I want to put on the record what a wonderful speech he give , particularly his personal story , his campaigning for those who have suffer child loss and his work for the north . I hope that we have see a future Minister for the north in he . I thank my constituent for return I to the re - form Runneymede and Weybridge constituency . since then , several people have ask I , " Ben , you ' ve be a Back Bencher in the party of government , and now you ' re a Back Bencher in opposition . how ' s your job go to change ? " I say , " actually , the main job win ' t change that much . " I be here to support the Government to succeed . I want they to succeed — we all need they to succeed . I do not want the Labour party in power , but I want the Government to succeed . I be here to hold the Government to account and to work with they to ensure that thing go well . my mission continue to keep Runnymede and Weybridge move — something that I be sure my constituent be sick of hear during my re - election campaign . I look forward to continue to deliver for people locally . I be proud to represent Runnymede and Weybridge constituent . one of the good thing about the area I live in and be proud to represent be our wonderful community . under the boundary change , we have take in Cobham , Downside , Oxshott and Stoke D ' Abernon , which have fantastic local community . if hon . member will indulge I , I want to talk about one of our community champion , Councillor Charu Sood , who sadly be very poorly with cancer and be undergo treatment in hospital . Charu be a councillor for St George ' s Hill and be the embodiment of a local community champion . in the year since her election in 2018 , she have achieve a huge amount : set up Weybridge in Bloom and Sew Weybridge , which prepare personal protective equipment during the crisis , support ukrainian refugee and raise fund for various charity . she be an amazing community champion , and I pay tribute to she and wish she well in her ongoing treatment . in the two minute I have leave , I would like to talk about amendment ( g ) , which stand in my name , to the motion on his Majesty ' s most gracious Speech . sadly , my amendment be not pick for a vote , but I see it as the first stage in the battle against the Government ' s awful policy to tax education . like many people across the UK , and in Runnymede and Weybridge , where one in five child be educate in the independent sector , as a family we have also choose independent education for our child , so I declare a financial interest as part of this campaign . I have speak to many independent school in my patch , which have tell I that 5 % to 10 % of kid will move back to the state sector as a result of the policy . Most parent who send their kid to independent school be not the mega - rich magnate characterise by the Government , but , like all parent , people who make difficult budgeting decision on how to spend their money . the policy of tax education , which we have never do before and never should , will only put more pressure on the state sector . there will be more disruption for the kid who be force to move out — disruption that the covid generation of child just do not need . I sincerely hope that the Government will look at the challenge , the problem and the fact that a lot of child with special educational need in independent education do not have education , health and care plan , and be thus save the Government money , and think again about this awful policy . I will hold they to account , as will many of my colleague on the Conservative Benches . I call Nesil Caliskan to make her maiden speech . I be honour to deliver my maiden speech , and I thank the wonderful people of Barking who have elect I . if you will indulge I , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would also like to thank my wonderful husband , who have be by my side every step of the way . this year , 2024 , have be quite the year for we . with a new baby girl , seven month old , and a general election be call , sleep have not be on our side as a household . but of course it have all be worth it , and I now have the absolute privilege of represent the east London constituency of Barking . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , the right hon . Dame Margaret Hodge , who serve diligently as the Member of Parliament for bark for three decade . Dame Margaret have become know not only for her tenaciousness , but for her warmth . she hold several ministerial post in the last Labour Government and serve as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . from take on and win against the far right in Barking to campaign against tax evasion and avoidance , Dame Margaret be always fiercely brave in stand up for what she think be right , regardless of political party . as I prepare for my maiden speech , I think about some of the parallel between Margaret ' s family and my own . Margaret ' s family be jewish , escape Nazi - occupy Europe , and Margaret herself flee Egypt for the United Kingdom in 1948 in fear of persecution . my grandparent , Osman and Neriman Tango , be of turkish cypriot muslim background . they escape violence in Cyprus , arrive in London on Christmas eve in 1972 . my mum , Alev , be bear in Cyprus in 1967 and be care for in a United Nations tent . the three of they seek safety in the melting pot that be London ' s east end . they speak no English , they have no qualification and no money , but they be safe . as I stand in this Chamber and address hon . member , I can not help but think of my grandfather , my late grandmother and my mum . I do not think my grandparent could have envision that in one generation their granddaughter would be a Member of the mother of all Parliaments . it show what be possible in this country , and I feel so deeply honour to be here . I thank my mum , who teach I and my two sister , Neri and Eda , that we must always try our good , work hard , look after and care for other when they need our help , be grateful for an education , and , when we can , find a way to give back . those be my value , and I know that they be the value hold by family in my constituency . barking and Dagenham be a special community in London and a place that I have come to know and love . many of my constituent have a similar story to my family , with heritage from different part of the world . there be also community in my constituency that have live there for generation , deeply proud of their Barking and Dagenham root — and so they should be . bark constituency be a place with a rich history , whether it be industrial heritage , include the former Barking power station open by King George V , or the UK ' s large council estate build after the first world war as part of the Government ' s " home fit for hero " scheme . now barking be young and more diverse than the London and national average . that be one of the thing that make it such a vibrant place in which to live , but it face challenge . the unemployment rate in the constituency be bad than in any other London borough , and average earning be much low than elsewhere . shamefully , 23 % of child in Barking be live in poverty . economic growth be critical for the whole country , and for my constituent . economic growth be what allow government to invest so that we can all benefit from public service — school , our NHS , frontline service run by local authority , and a welfare system that value dignity for the individual . economic growth mean additional investment in crucial work deliver by child ' s service , tackle youth crime and violence in our community . but economic growth do more than just pay for decent public service ; it can deliver people good , well - pay job that secure a roof over their head , food on the table and hope for the future . it be the only route out of poverty , and indeed it be how my grandparent break away from the cycle of poverty . that be why I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s commitment to economic stability and growth outline in the King ' s Speech last week , include plan for a national wealth fund alongside a new deal for work people . I also support the Government ' s commitment to address the housing crisis , especially because it be one of the driver of poverty . the average house price in Barking have go up by 21 % over the last five year , and rent have soar . there be thousand of people in temporary accommodation , and a quarter of my constituent live in the under - regulate private rent sector . that be why the Government ' s plan to bring forward a renter right Bill to end section 21 no - fault eviction be so important for Barking , as be their commitment to speed up planning and infrastructure to get more home build . the King ' s Speech be an agenda from a Government who be on the side of my constituent . it be a plan that give hope to people in this country who for too long have feel abandon . hope for the future , with deliverable plan to improve life , be why I enter politic , and , I be sure , why member on both side of the House enter politic . it be why I serve as a council leader before come to this place , and why I decide to run to be Member of Parliament for Barking . politic be perhaps the great vehicle for change , and it be why this place matter . build more home , give child a well start in life with free breakfast club and more qualified teacher , cut NHS waiting time , lower bill with great British Energy — these thing matter , and they will improve the life of people in my constituency . they be all possible , and only possible , with economic growth . so to the good people of Barking I say : I promise to be on your side . I will represent you faithfully , and I will fight for a well future for barking so that every person have the opportunity to fulfil their potential — something that be possible only if people feel safe in their community . I will always champion public service , and I will stand up for investment so that local people benefit . I be honour to speak in the Chamber , and I will repay that honour by work hard for my constituent as the MP for Barking . it be a great honour to speak in this new Parliament , my fifth , and particularly to follow the hon . member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) , who speak with dazzle eloquence about her constituency , but also about the importance of diversity in our democracy . it be wonderful to see such diversity in the new Parliament . I congratulate the new Prime Minister and his team of new Ministers on that , and on their laudable tone of humility and public service . in the same spirit , I thank our Leader of the Opposition for both the fantastic tone in which he concede on election night , and the tone in which he start his new role . one can say many thing about the politic of the last few year , but our Leader of the opposition be not do this for money ; he be do it out of a very deep sense of public service in the fine tradition of this country . at a time when so many democracy around the world be struggle , democratic trust be under threat . I want to highlight what a wonderful 10 day it have be here , because we have see the transfer of power with such peace and stability . the picture from this Chamber that be go around the world show how this Parliament still stand for the very good of democratic civility . as a new generation of newly elect mps and new Ministers take office with a mandate for change , all of we who have serve in government and see how hard it have become to deliver real , last reform will wish they well in the spirit of the late , great Jo Cox . as democratically elect parliamentarian , we do indeed have far more in common than divide we . whatever our politic , we share a deep and urgent need to show that mps , politic and Parliament can make a difference , that there be serious respect for government accountability throughout this House and at the sweaty corner of the Dispatch Boxes , and that Government be not — as I fear so many have , sadly , come to believe — an inevitably unaccountable , bureaucratic machine that always win , no matter who people vote for . for my part , in the field of science and technology , I stand ready to help this Parliament and this Government see through the vital work need to unleash the science , technology , engineering and mathematic economy . Mr Speaker , you may be ask how I survive the Chernobyl meltdown of conservatism in Norfolk — we deliver not one but three Portillo moment on the night . I thank the people of Mid Norfolk for elect I for a fifth time , and I will quickly share with the House the key message that they give I as I knock on 29 , 000 door . they say that they want a politic of honesty , integrity and accountability first and foremost , and they want the new Government and the new Parliament to tackle three key issue . the first be immigration . it be very clear across the whole of my constituency that people feel that our security and our sustainability , both economically and in term of public service , require the new Government to go far in tackle the wave of immigration that have hit this country in the last few year . the second issue mention be housing and planning . there be deep exhaustion with the way that too many big developer be run ring round our council and dump big commuter housing estate in the wrong place , with no investment in infrastructure . we need new town on railway line to drive a net zero and sustainable model of living . the third issue be the NHS and healthcare . People be feed up with our pour billion of pound into the system in London , because they be not see properly integrate mental health provision , social care and healthcare on the ground locally . as we debate the King ' s Speech , it be important that we be honest about the legacy of the last 14 year . it have not be 14 year of failure and cut , as one or two Government Front Benchers have portray it . the truth be that we be hit by an extraordinary legacy from the financial crash in 2008 , which cause £ 700 billion of debt . then we have the Brexit disruption , follow by the pandemic , which lead we to spend £ 400 billion on relief . the war in Europe have cost we £ 40 billion . any one of those event would have knock the breath out of the great Lady Thatcher . this have be an extraordinary period of unprecedented shock , and there be much in the last 14 year to be proud of . I would cite the introduction of universal credit ; the tackling of welfare fraud ; the school reform ; the 5 million apprenticeship ; the degree apprenticeship ; the huge reduction in youth unemployment , which be at a scandalous level when we take office ; the progressive tax cut for the low pay ; huge improvement in life science , technology and innovation ; green growth — we be the only country to have halve emission while grow our economy ; and the pension triple lock . on a personal note , I be deeply proud of the work that we have do in the life science and in the creation of the new Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , the 10 - year science and technology framework , the creation of the Advanced Research and Invention Agency , our re - entry into Horizon and our groundbreake international collaboration . if we be to make this a decade of national renewal , the innovation economy be completely key to drive investment , opportunity and cluster around the country , and to harness the regulatory leadership need for this country to be the dynamic innovation economy that we can be . in that vein , I welcome the new ministerial team and wish they all support as they seek to unlock that mission . rise — order . the House will know that the election of Deputy Speakers take place today . before I announce the result , I would like to thank the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for serve as Deputy Speakers over the past week . I will now announce the result . Nusrat Ghani be elect Chair of Ways and Means . Judith Cummins be elect First Deputy Chair of Ways and Means . Caroline Nokes be elect Second Deputy Chair of Ways of Means . I congratulate those elect and look forward to work with they . I thank the people who do not make it for standing , and for the way that the election have take place . the result of the count will be make available as soon as possible in the Vote Office and publish online . I call Sojan Joseph to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Speaker , for this opportunity to make my maiden speech in the House as the first ever Labour Member of Parliament for Ashford . I be delighted to be call to speak in this important debate . I congratulate all new member who have deliver their maiden speech today . I be beyond grateful and deeply proud to have this opportunity to do so , and I be excited to represent a community such as Ashford , which be wait upon change — not just any change , but change that speak volume . I be excited to commute to London after I be elect , but I be shock at the expense of £ 93 for an hour - long train journey . that be the same as it would cost I to get my weekly grocery at a bargain shop in Ashford . luckily , we have more and more bargain shop open for business in Ashford . I intend to press for the implementation of policy that will maintain and restore our town ' s natural beauty , as well as introduce more local business to help Ashford to thrive and bring back its prosperity . I take joy in represent such a diverse community as our and , come from Kerala , a southern state in India , I be proud to have be select by the people of Ashford . Ashford have be a market town since the middle age and be home to a hospital name after the renowned physician William Harvey . it be a major hospital for those within east Kent . many rely on that establishment to deliver many form of healthcare , but recently it have be overcrowd yet understaffed . have work in the NHS as a mental health nurse for the past 22 year , this be a subject I hold close to my heart , and it be certainly something I would like to look into . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Damian Green , and the work he have do for Ashford over the past 27 year , as well as acknowledge his impressive record in the House , have be First Secretary of State , Minister for the Cabinet Office , Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , Minister of State for Policing and Criminal Justice and , finally , Minister of State for Immigration . I have great respect for the success he have , such as work on a cross - party basis with local councillor to bring an excellent skill - focus college to Ashford , attract more keen student to the heart of the town . he also support work to convert the previously derelict Newtown Works into a film studio and he have help to protect the Kent countryside , both of which I value dearly , as protect the beauty of the constituency be vital . I would also like to acknowledge Damian Green ' s effort in campaign to bring back service to the continent from Ashford International train station , which be a personal target of mine . I believe Ashford would benefit from restore that international travel , as it previously heighten tourism and the number of business , both foreign and local , situate in the town . I be pleased that the King ' s Speech highlight the idea of a well relationship with Europe through the creation of a new policy , which will assist in bring international travel back to Ashford . Ashford have great connectivity to London , thank to the development of HS1 . as a result , more people have choose to move towards Ashford and make it their home . however , the infrastructure have simply not catch up . gp surgery , dentist , housing , road and school need improvement , and I will campaign on these issue as the new Member of Parliament . as there have recently be boundary change to my constituency , I would also like to pay tribute to my other predecessor , Damian Collins , who represent the part of Folkestone and Hythe that be now within the new Ashford constituency — namely , Hawkinge and surround village . I be glad to embrace the natural beauty and historic significance of these area . RAF Hawkinge be important during the second world war and , as the close operational airfield to France , it be use during the battle of Britain to defend against enemy aerial attack . I could go on and on about the constituency ' s unique and vibrant town and village . as the House can tell , I be very content and very proud to represent these area . our farmer play a valuable role both locally , in rural area of the constituency , and in the wide economy . importantly , they help to provide food security , stabilise the agricultural sector . however , they also face workforce shortage and be be hit hard by increase energy cost . I be pleased that the King ' s Speech contain a Bill to create the publicly own great British Energy , which will reduce energy bill in the long term . it be clear that our public service be in decline . the NHS face many problem . staff lack morale , and mental health service , in particular , be deteriorate . my career background be in the NHS and mental health , so this be close to home . I have see child as young as nine year old self - harm , and I have see many people , young and old , end their life while wait for treatment . this be a serious issue , and it must be address . it be clear that , in recent year , the importance and value of our NHS have not be highlight , so its maintenance have not be prioritise . we face an ever - grow yet age population , lead to hospital overcrowding and a heavy dependence on social care , which be itself hang by a thread . yet the hospital be severely understaffed and hugely underfunded , to the point that we can no long fulfil people ' s demand or catch up with these grow issue . after hear his Majesty ' s Speech , I be reassure that a new Bill will be introduce to address mental health and learn difficulty , and that the Government have already take the initial step . this be a necessary step towards reach a well nhs and a well future in which we can get people back to work , support economic growth . finally , I thank the member and supporter of Ashford Labour party for their work to secure this historic victory in Ashford , as well as extend my thank to my wife , Brita , and our three child . I be incredibly proud to be stand here on behalf of my constituent , and I look forward to work with those around I , from all party , to make the change that our country desperately need . I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) on his maiden speech , in which he speak about his constituency with passion . have NHS experience myself , I welcome any Member with frontline experience of our public service , which I be sure he will put to very good use during his time in the House . I welcome the opportunity to speak in today ' s debate on immigration and home affair , which be two area that be important to I . I believe that how we tackle illegal migration will be a totemic political issue in the come decade , not just because of its probable global scale but because it will test whether government in the UK and elsewhere be willing to face down often well - mean but misplace idea about how good to protect the right and welfare of individual while preserve community cohesion and overall fairness in society . criminal justice be one of my primary reason for want to come to this place because , despite recent good progress under the previous Government , I feel that our criminal justice system do not do enough to secure justice for the victim of serious crime . at the end of 2023 , accord to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , the number of people who have be force to flee their home stand at 117 million . irregular migration to Europe be rise . accord to the European Union ' s border agency , Frontex , there be a significant increase in irregular border crossing last year , estimate at approximately 380 , 000 people , drive , it say , by economic , social and security instability in part of Africa . over the last 15 year , Frontex have detect 1 . 4 million irregular border crossing into the EU . the United States have see even big increase of migrant flow from South America . the question be what to do about it . first , I do not demonise people who make the journey — that be something we should avoid . People naturally want to improve their life and their family ' s life . for those arrive from conflict zone , their original motivation for leave be , of course , to protect themselves , but government and politician can not afford the luxury of blind sympathy for people in difficult circumstance . we have to act rationally . what be sustainable ? what be voter in democratic country , who have to pay to provide refuge for people , willing to accept ? I support the Rwanda plan because I believe it be both fair and rational . right now , who get asylum in this country and who the british taxpayer pay to support be determine by the ability of people to make the journey into Europe and the UK . that be not fair . I believe that the agency that place people in Rwanda for re - home be against the plan , because they fail to move with the time in understand the change nature of the issue . this be no long the same problem that the European Convention on Human Rights , the European Court of Human Rights and the refugee agency be set up to address . the scale of the problem have , and will , continue to grow . there be a fear that if the UK implement such a policy , as Australia do , it will become more and more difficult for anyone to apply successfully for asylum in a western country . I understand that concern , but these agency and well - mean human right advocate need to wake up to what will happen if we do not control these movement of people . we will see a surge in far right support and risk even more unpalatable solution . provide safe and legal route be , by no mean , an answer . whatever safe and legal route we set up will have criterion and , inevitably , not all people will be able to make it here on that basis . the fit and young will continue to make small boat crossing to overcome that barrier , so we will be right back to where we start . labour may have some short - term success , for example on some obvious thing we may not have do when it come to tackle gang , but let we look at Labour ' s track record . Labour Members oppose all of our measure to increase sentence for people traffic and the Prime Minister himself oppose the deportation of foreign criminal . that be not an encouraging track record . I wish they luck in the proposal they have put forward , but none represent a sustainable solution . as a number of EU country have recognise , move people and offshore processing be the way forward . I pay tribute to the good progress we make on crime and justice in the previous Government . we introduce a whole - life tariff for premediated child murder . we introduce Harper ' s law , a mandatory life sentence for the manslaughter of emergency service worker . importantly , we reform Labour ' s halfway release , bring it up to two third for the most serious offender . there be no doubt that the pandemic , the associated court backlog and the increase of thousand of prisoner be keep on remand have make other difficult decision necessary . I take the Justice Secretary at her word when she say these be " temporary " solution , although if she have sunsette they she might have have more credibility . however , I send she my goodwill . more generally , there be an intellectual snobbery towards people who think the punishment of offender be a public good , a positive thing that be necessary for the functioning of our society . in my experience , the Ministry of Justice be happy to focus on the experience of victim but not so much on whether they actually get justice . I will continue to campaign and push this government , as I do the last Government , to move the whole - life sentence for child murder away from just significant premeditate child murder to all child murder . we will all have be horrify by story of parent murder their own child , very often not in premeditated circumstance . I think people like that deserve to face justice with a whole - life order . I will also campaign on the use of life sentence . the term be misleading , often report as jail for life , when it almost never be , which be an insult to victim . those be my priority . I will welcome the new Government ' s progress in those area , but I will be there as a sceptical champion for victim of crime along the way . this morning we wake to the horrifying confirmation that violence against woman and girl in the UK be endemic . the national police statement detail that there be 3 , 000 offence record each day , but let we remember , that will be the tip of the iceberg . for example , 83 % of woman do not come forward to report rape to the police , and many offence will not even be recognise as such by the victim because of the deep - seat misogyny in this country . the system , as it currently stand , fail woman and girl . what we need now be root and branch change . in March 2023 , the now Prime Minister promise to halve violence against woman and girl if Labour win office . he say he would put domestic abuse specialist in police control room and set up dedicated court for rape trial . I be proud that in the King ' s Speech the Prime Minister be live up to his promise . in my government ' s propose Bills , I be reassure to see specific measure to tackle misogyny , from teach child about healthy relationship and consent , to put rape victim back at the heart of our criminal justice system . until now , rape conviction rate have be appallingly low . a total of 68 , 387 rape be record by the police in 2023 , but , by the end of that year , charge have be just 2 . 6 % , and the average wait time for rape case to get to court be 839 day . that should shame we all . I be hopeful that the plan to introduce specialist rape court to fast - track case will make the change and I support they . on that note , I wish to take a moment to thank the victim and survivor , as well as the past and present Victims ’ commissioner , for the hard work that they have do in campaigning to make these necessary change . I thank my Government for act on my campaign to stop register sex offender from change their name . and I greatly look forward to work with those on the Front Bench to close all legal loophole that allow dangerous sex offender to slip through the net . follow many year of fight alongside inspirational survivor , include Della and the Safeguarding Alliance , I be optimistic that we be finally nearly there with Della ' s law . now I turn to a topic that need all of our attention — child protection . safeguarding should start with every parent and every child have access to a sure Start . unfortunately , most people be not automatically bear to be a good parent , but sure Start can give they the support and encouragement that they need to become one . early intervention be always the good and cheap solution . I urge the Government to rebuild this inspirational offer , after the Tories try to demolish it one centre at a time . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s plan to introduce a statutory definition of " child criminal exploitation " . this be something that I have be campaign on for many year and could never understand why the previous Government resist it . until now , there have be multiple definition , result in a confused and fragmented response by authority . between 2022 and 2023 , more than 14 , 000 child be identify as at risk of , or a victim of , child criminal exploitation . I hope to work with the Government to ensure that the new statutory definition be in line with international standard of child trafficking , not just an extension of the adult definition . for too long , we have see the abuse of child victim be misinterpret as " choice " . a child can never " consent " to their abuse or exploitation . I wish to end where I start , with Labour ' s commitment to halve violence against woman and girl . I urge my Government to seize this moment and to be bold and ambitious . we owe woman and girl more than just lip service . they deserve real , tangible action . I stand ready to assist as a friendly critic , but also as a help hand . I call Shockat Adam to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak in this debate . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) who speak on a subject on which we can all agree — safeguard our woman and child . there have be many excellent contribution today , and it be an honour to follow each and every one of they . in my short time in this House , it have become abundantly clear to I that the most important person be you , Mr Deputy Speaker , with your desire to keep speech and contribution short , and that that be the good way for I to curry favour with you . with that in mind , I shall make my maiden speech . I arrive in this country as a toddler from the heart of Africa to the heart of the midland : Leicester . that city nurture , school and shape I . it would be fair to say that , no matter where I be in the world , there be a corner of a foreign field that be forever Leicester . the vibrancy , the diversity and , occasionally , the complete rawness of the city be the backdrop of my upbringing . I remember very well as a child those free , small , cold bottle of milk that I use to get at school — I remember very well when it be steal from I as well . I remember embark on my life journey with friend from all different creed , colour , religion and no religion , and we make a life for ourselves in this amazing country . I remember also moment of racism . one that come to mind be with my late mother . we be in a park and be set upon by a group of people who hurl abuse and foul thing , include language and object , in our direction . but those incident be supersede by kindness , love and understanding from the great people of this country . as the young child by a distance , I be often refer to by my family member as the mistake , but my mother always refer to I as a miracle , and ever since then I begin to believe it . my mother , who do not get the opportunity of a formal education in her lifetime , ensure all her child make the most of what this country have to offer . it be this mother who , when I suggest when I grow a bit old that I want to study history at university , look at I as if I be about to become history , so , like a dutiful child , I do optometry . and that bring I to here . I have check the archive , and it appear I be only the second optometrist to have ever become an MP . so , I hope I can bring a little of my professional skill to help the House to focus on what matter and not be myopic in our decision making . with laser - like reflection , I believe we can bring 20 / 20 vision to matter before we and not make a real spectacle of ourselves . but the serious point be this : with well usage of optometrist , our GP service and our pharmaceutical colleague , we can ease the burden on secondary care in our hospital . we all need to work join up and together . as we be on the topic of health , at this juncture I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor Jon Ashworth , a shadow Health Secretary for more than five year before latterly taking on the shadow Paymaster role . he have the honour before I of represent the wonderful Leicester South constituency . in his maiden speech in 2011 , he say it perfectly : " I be privileged to represent a constituency of huge diversity , vibrancy and tolerance , and while we must never be complacent , our community generally live harmoniously together . we be part of a city renowne across the world for welcome incomer . family have come from across the globe to make their home in Leicester South … our diversity " — ethnicity — " enrich our cultural , social and civic life , and contribute immensely to our economy , too . " — [ Official Report , 8 June 2011 ; Vol . 529 , c . 200 - 201 . ] he represent Leicester South with distinction for 13 year and I hope I can live up to the reputation he earn as a dedicated champion for our city . talk of champion , Leicester be the city of champion — another miracle . I be from the city that defy all the odd in the 2015 - 16 season when Leicester City become premier league champion , prove again that miracle can happen . I have be a diehard fan ever since I be a child , when one of our favourite son , Gary Lineker , be still on the bench . we have the Tigers for our rugby force and the Foxes for the cricket , whilst the rider be usually top of the court in basketball , and in Mark Selby we have a snooker world champion . but on a serious note , we must invest in sport facility , not only to continue this rich tradition but to give our youth opportunity to improve their physical and mental wellbeing and occupy their time in positive pursuit . too many of my young constituent tell I they have nothing to do , and we must give they that opportunity . young people also bear the brunt of the housing crisis , and in Leicester we face overcrowd and waiting list of over six year — bad than some London borough . we urgently need more affordable home . leicester — another miracle — be where we find the remain of the last Plantagenet king . the bone of Richard III have be lie undisturbed for over 500 year until they be discover under a car park in 2012 . please do come and visit he at our beautiful cathedral . we be a friendly bunch , regardless of what you may have read and hear about we . to quote Shakespeare , " my heart be ten time light than my look . " my city be a united city . we celebrate all religious festival — Christmas , Diwali , Vaisakhi , even the caribbean carnival — with equal vigour , and have live in harmony for over half a century . however , in recent year fracture have appear , sow by those who wish to divide we , often by weaponise language . I understand that our isle have finite resource , but we must always have infinite empathy , infinite sympathy and an infinite vocabulary to build bridge , not to destroy they . in the word of the great Muslim Sufi poet Rumi , " we must raise our word , not our voice . it be rain that bring forth flower , not thunder . " during my campaign , I be humble : I think I know my city , but I really do not . within my city there be an underbelly , a shadow , a city within a city . while I use to speak about people who have a conflict between eating and heating , during my campaign I meet they . food bank at 11 o ' clock on a Tuesday morning have over 80 people queue , and I be tell that be one of the quiet day they have ever have . we must tackle the cost of live crisis and reduce the wealth inequality in our country . it be not ethical or sustainable for any civilised nation to go on that way . one poignant incident from my campaigning be when I knock at a house and a lady peer through a partially open door . I could not see her whole face , but see enough to see a life of sadness and tragedy . she explain that she have have a relatively successful life , but something have happen at work — a little bit of bullying — and she go into a depression cycle and never really recover . she say to I , " I will vote for you if you can do one of two thing . " what do she ask I ? she say , " if you could just plant I a tree so I can see it , that would make I smile , and if you could get I a fountain so I can see some water trickle , I ' ll vote for you forever . " it be important to remember that it be the simple thing that people want and that make the big difference to their life . they want someone to speak up for they in these corridor of power , to speak about the injustice in the world , to give a voice to those who do not have one , who have no might , authority or power — whether that be the forget in Yemen , the victim of conflict in Sudan , or the victim of the ongoing devastation in Palestine — regardless of where they be in the world . I will always endeavour to speak truth to power and demand that this new Government take action for the poor and dispossess , not just the powerful . finally , if my campaign ever have a catchphrase , it would be the chinese proverb that say , " the good time to plant a tree be 25 year ago , in order to enjoy its beauty , its shade and its fruit , but the next good time be today . " we must plant that seed of unity , equality and justice now to ensure that our future generation can enjoy the fruit of friendship , fairness and peace . I call Brian Leishman to make his maiden speech . I thank the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) ; I be sure many of we will find he a very hard act to follow . I congratulate all the hon . member who have make their opening contribution to this Chamber . I have listen intently and be impress by their passionate delivery and the personal content they have share . at the outset of my speech , I would like to thank my family for the encouragement and strength they have give I on my journey to this place . without their unwavering support , I would not have become a local councillor and then an MP . it be with gratitude , and with enormous pride at be elect as the first ever Member of Parliament for Alloa and Grangemouth , that I take my turn to address the Chamber . I also take this opportunity to highlight my respect for all the candidate who be on the ballot paper . I admire anyone who want to dedicate themselves to public service , and I pay special tribute to Mr John Nicolson . those hon . member who be re - elect to this place a few week ago will all know that Mr Nicolson ' s sartorial elegance be match by his trademark eloquence in this Chamber and in represent the constituent he serve with great distinction . with the Forth run through Alloa and Grangemouth , many people on both side of the river feel it be not a natural constituency , but when we look at the community and town that make it up , our new constituency make perfect sense . clackmannanshire , be the small county in Scotland , be affectionately know as " the wee county , " but be under no illusion : although it be small in size , it be mighty in its industrial heritage . industry be a tradition that stretch right across our constituency . Alva and Tillicoultry be the home of luxury woollen mill . both run along the foot of the impressive and beautiful local hill , as do Menstrie , the westernmost village of the three , which be synonymous with yeast manufacture — vital , of course , for one of Scotland ' s national drink . indeed , alcohol production have be a fixture in Alloa for decade , and it be once regard as Scotland ' s brewery town , but sadly nowadays only a few remain . cross the Forth , we leave Scotland ' s brewery town behind and come to Grangemouth , which be once know as Scotland ' s boom town . the Grangemouth refinery start operate in 1924 . this be the centenary year mean that it should really be a time of great celebration , but it have be announce that refining oil in Grangemouth be to stop — possibly as soon as May 2025 . what happen next to the Grangemouth refinery will reverberate around all our constituency . oil will be part of the energy mix for year to come — that be a fact — but we also know that we need to accelerate the clean , green energy industry that will combat climate issue , low our bill , increase national security and reindustrialise community . the term " just transition " have enter the modern lexicon , but many people I speak with while out campaigning do not know what it actually mean . it simply mean move from one industry to another without leave worker and their community behind to deal with devastating economic and social consequence . historically , many worker in Alloa and Grangemouth have be victim of deindustrialisation and so - call market force in a system that have value profit over people and create a society of gross inequality . we be at a crossroad . we know what will happen if Grangemouth stop refine before a new industrial cluster be ready . it would mean that hundred of worker lose their job , worker and family have to leave their community in search of work , and the pub , caf é s and shop of Grangemouth all lose custom . allow a gap between cease refining and the new greener energy be operational be as unfair as it be unpalatable . Grangemouth can not go from be boom town to ghost town . in the past few week , my Government colleague have engage with the union , the company involve with the refinery and the Scottish Government , and we be commit to exhaust all possibility of make Grangemouth the site that we all need it to be . my constituency be call Alloa and Grangemouth , but it be also my honour to represent Larbert , Stenhousemuir and many surround village across both the Falkirk and Clackmannanshire council area . as a football fan , it would be remiss of I not to mention one of Sauchie ' s favourite son : multiple european cup winner , scottish internationalist and respected pundit Alan Hansen . I know that the House will join I in express relief at his recovery from a recent health scare . it would also be remiss of I not to congratulate Stenhousemuir football club — the Warriors — on their league championship win last season . I be very much look forward to the Alloa and Grangemouth constituency derby between Alloa Athletic and Stenhousemuir FC in league one next year . on the subject of sport , before come to this place I be a golf professional . it might not seem it at first , but be a golf professional have transferable skill for be an MP . the building of relationship , the creation of rapport , serve people and try to improve thing for they be skill that will stand I in good stead in this place — also , work in golf for 23 year have get I use to deal with Tories . work in golf be fantastic : it take I to place that I would never have be and allow I to speak with people I would never have meet . we truly be rich when we encounter people from other part of the world and learn about their culture and custom . that apply not just when we go to different place ; it also benefit we here in Britain when we welcome people into our community . our community need action that improve people ' s life and give they not just hope but the route out of struggle . rest assure , I will work with local business , charity and third - sector organisation in my constituency , and with UK Government colleague and counterpart from the Scottish Government , to deliver the change that people need . I know that my voice carry the necessary weight to bring about that change — not because of who I be , but because of the position I hold . the people of Alloa and Grangemouth have give I the responsibility to use my voice , and I intend to do so for the benefit of everyone from every community across the constituency that I be so proud to represent . I call Max Wilkinson to make his maiden speech . it be my honour to stand in this Chamber as the Member of Parliament for the beautiful town of Cheltenham , and it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) . I heartily commend what he say about Alan Hansen , who I watch on television on many occasion as a young football fan . since last summer , when my wife return to work after maternity leave , I have be enjoy the unusual combine role of wannabe Member of Parliament and stay - at - home dad . they tell I it be a job require endless patience , a great deal of tolerance , the ability to understand almost inhuman form of communication and boundless enthusiasm for clear up a never - end supply of mess — and I hear a toddler can be tough , too . I want to start by give thank to some of the people and group that have make the past year so joyful for I : Baby Bounce and Rhyme at Cheltenham library , and in particular Heather , who lead the singing ; Andrea and Mary at Highbury church playgroup ; and Sophie at Little note . my experience over the past year have reinforce my view about the challenge I already know so many parent face , and I have meet many new parent in the corridor over the past couple of week . I will always speak up in this place for child , include my own offspring — so , Elodie , if you be at home watch I drone on , please tell Granny to put " the Wiggles " on instead . I offer my sincere thank to the former Justice Secretary , Alex Chalk , the first Member of Parliament for Cheltenham to serve in Cabinet . conservative Members should note his wise word on the prison population : that we should follow the evidence , not the dogma . but such praise for my predecessor be perhaps well communicate through the word of one member of House staff , who upon be introduce to I as Alex ' s replacement , respond with a line that really hit home and will last with I forever : " oh , that ' s a shame . he be nice . " luckily , I be not easily offend , and I will try to be nice too . I also thank two of my political mentor , Martin Horwood and Nigel Jones . both be past mps for Cheltenham who make an indelible impact on I and on our town . my predecessor know what I know : that Cheltenham be full of big - hearted people whose community spirit and love of hospitality , the art and culture make it a special place to be . we have so many festival , include literature , horse racing , poetry , music , jazz , food , cricket and science — I could go on — that we be know as the festival town . we live in a food and drink paradise : we have excellent pub , bar , cafe and restaurant , as well as the DEYA brewery and Dunkertons cider . we be the home of Holst , of Superdry and of the polar explorer Edward Wilson , but there be more . local historian record that Cheltenham be the site of the first parachute descent . in 1838 , John Hampton jump out of a hot air balloon 9 , 000 foot above the town and glide to earth under an umbrella - like contraption . at this point , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) might be get too excited , so I will leave it there . Cheltenham ' s rich cultural tapestry be interweave with generously proportion park and garden , and be surround by beautiful Regency architecture and roll hill . it truly be a feast for all the sense , and our school be first - rate , too . education be at the heart of our town ' s value — it be on the town crest . I be so proud to have be elect for the town I love at the second attempt . that second - time success follow a trend in my relationship with Cheltenham . first impression be clearly not my thing , and they could have lead to a very different path in my life . in fact , my first job interview in Cheltenham — many year ago , when I have a full head of hair — be so bad that not only be I not offer the job , but when the boss call back week later , have apparently be turn down by all the other candidate , the start salary have suffer a rapid cut of around 10 % . member will know that that be a spending power reduction that even the former Member for South West Norfolk would struggle to match in her most strident moment . I take the job anyway , of course , because you do not turn down the chance to move to Cheltenham . I be proud to have already keep my first promise as a Member of Parliament . I have join the Robins Trust , which support Cheltenham Town FC . they remain a division ahead of Forest Green Rovers , despite be relegate last season — with my apology to the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) . I have lead campaign already to invest in affordable housing in Cheltenham , to fight climate change and to support food bank , because we have they . it be a disgrace that a town as wealthy as Cheltenham have more than 700 people use food bank regularly . we have a unique scheme in Cheltenham where food bank user also get free access to the leisure centre . I would recommend that all member try to roll that out in their area . however , if there be one priority I will pursue relentlessly , it will be undo the harm cause to our local health service these past few year . alongside the word " education " , our town crest also feature the world " health " . I will defend our local hospital , and I will campaign on primary care , too . one matter of vital importance link this place and Cheltenham be GCHQ . their work be secret and they never ask for our thank , but thousand of people in Cheltenham work hard for we every single day . if I may veer dangerously close to policy for a maiden speech , I be pleased to see that the cyber - security and resilience Bill will be come before Parliament . this be a huge opportunity to update the UK ' s cyber law by reform the Computer Misuse Act 1990 , and that will help well defend our cyber - defender who work so hard for we in Cheltenham . it be with those issue and more in mind that I be accost at Paddington station the night before my first day here . I be lose in thought , and a tourist approach I and say , " excuse I , Sir . how do you get to Westminster ? " I be of course delight to be recognise by a member of the public so early in my political career , so I decide to give he the full benefit of my political story . after about 15 minute , I have be through all my good campaign , my door - knock technique , the good leaflet I have ever deliver , and I be just tell he about do aqua aerobics with our leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton , in our iconic Sandford Park lido . sadly , I have get it wrong . he interject , " sorry , friend ; I just want to know which tube line to take . " that be a cautionary tale for all new member : let we not get ahead of ourselves . we be here for our constituency first and foremost , and for I it will be Cheltenham first every time . it be a pleasure to follow the maiden speech of the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , and I congratulate all hon . member who have make their maiden speech today . I also acknowledge my colleague in Government , who I have to say have literally be hit the ground run and get on with rebuild our country . I would like to begin by place on record my thank to the constituent in Battersea for elect I a third time . it remain an honour and a privilege to serve as their MP . the King ' s Speech will deliver a truly transformative programme of change and national renewal , and turn a page on 14 year of conservative chaos , decline and division . the Conservatives crash our economy , impose Brexit , preside over austerity , preside over the big fall in living standard on record , break our public service , include the NHS and the criminal justice system , and fail to prepare adequately for the covid pandemic . I could say that the list go on . in contrast , Labour in government have already set out the first step of how it will create sustainable growth that work for everybody , restore economic credibility and deliver more safe , secure and affordable home , as well as deliver a new deal for worker , rebuild the NHS and make Britain a clean energy superpower , while also tackle crime and antisocial behaviour . more importantly , Labour will break down the barrier to opportunity for child and young people , so that we can finally give they a future and hope . on the Conservatives ' watch , the Government do nothing to tackle the housing crisis , mortgage bill and rent soar , leaseholder be trap in unsafe home , and renter face insecurity and injustice . thousand of my constituent who be leaseholder will welcome plan to make commonhold the default type of tenure , end the outdated leasehold system , and tackle unregulated and unaffordable ground rent . Battersea have a high number of private and social renter than the national average , so it will be a relief to many that the renter right Bill will abolish section 21 no - fault eviction and provide great stability and security . our plan will strengthen tenant ' right and protection , apply the decent home standard to the private rented sector , and ensure that tenant can request a pet , an issue I have work on alongside Battersea Dogs and Cats Home . reform to the planning system will deliver the housing that both Battersea and the country so desperately need , and the introduction of mandatory house building target will finally get our country build again . however , it be vital that decisive action be take on the shortage of accessible home . inaccessible home not only impact on one ' s physical and mental health , but limit disabled people ' s ability to live , study and work , so we must make it our priority to ensure that home be accessible for all . our new deal will transform the life of worker not only in Battersea but across the country . the employment right Bill will ban exploitative zero - hour contract , end fire and rehire , provide right from day one and update trade union legislation . alongside it , the draft equality Bill will not only root out structural inequality by set out equal pay right for black , asian and ethnic minority and disabled people , but introduce mandatory ethnicity and disability pay gap reporting for large employer . we can and must go far in this space and ensure that we change course by end the shameful Tory record on disability employment , where the gap be wide than it have be and the pay gap be at 14 . 6 % . but I have every faith in my colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions , who I will work alongside to deliver this . this King ' s Speech set out an ambitious and progressive path to deliver the programme of change that the people of Battersea and across our country so desperately need . rise — I call Sir Ashley Fox to make his maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) on his excellent maiden speech , and I be pleased to follow he . it be a great honour to be elect to this House to serve the people of Bridgwater . I thank they for put their trust in I . Bridgwater be a most diverse constituency . it combine the three historic town of North Petherton , Burnham - on - Sea and Highbridge , and Bridgwater itself . the constituency run from the coastal village of Berrow and Brean in the north to the village of Nether Stowey and Enmore in the foothill of the Quantocks in the west and Middlezoy and Othery on the Somerset level in the east . the battle of Sedgemoor be fight near Westonzoyland in 1685 . it be the end of Monmouth ' s rebellion and we should all be grateful that it be the last battle fight on english soil . Bridgwater be one of the original borough to send elect member to this House in 1295 , although it be not an unbroken record . in the 1868 general election the two liberal candidate defeat the two conservative candidate by just 44 vote . such be the evidence of bribery and corruption — on both side , I must add — that the two mp be unseated and the borough disenfranchise . a royal commission later find that over £ 1 , 500 , more than £ 200 , 000 in today ' s money , have be spend on bribe . Mr Deputy Speaker , I can assure you that I have pay particular care to my election expense . Bridgwater have a radical tradition . one of our most famous son be Admiral Robert Blake , regard by many as the father of the Royal Navy . he represent both Bridgwater and Taunton in this House in the 17th century and fight on the side of Parliament in the civil war . another of my radical predecessor be Vernon Bartlett , who win the seat in the 1938 by - election in what at the time be a remarkable defeat of the Conservative Government . he stand as an independent progressive , endorse by both the labour and liberal party , oppose to the Munich agreement . in this country , we often credit Winston Churchill for his opposition to the policy of appeasement of Nazi Germany , but it be less remember that the Labour party under Attlee , Bevin and Dalton be the strong opponent of that disastrous policy . I be sure that all member , but especially Labour Members , will be mindful of their party ' s proud history of oppose appeasement as this Government decide how to support Ukraine and how good to deter future russian aggression in Europe . I pay tribute to my predecessor from the two former constituency that make up the new seat of Bridgwater . James Heappey be the former Member for Wells . he stand down at the last election , and he be well like and respect in Burnham and Highbridge . he serve with distinction at the Ministry of Defence . he be also a kind and helpful colleague when I be select as a candidate , and I thank he for his service . Ian Liddell - Grainger represent Bridgwater and West Somerset for 23 year and be remember for the support he give our rural community follow the terrible flooding in Somerset during the winter of 2013 - 14 . Ian visit the affected area every week and persuade David Cameron to visit Somerset to witness the devastation for himself . it have not be forget that the former Prime Minister turn up without wellington boot . Ian lead the campaign for a barrage over the River Parrett , which be now in the early stage of construction . I will continue his work to ensure we dredge our river and maintain our defence , so that we minimise the threat of flooding . I also want to mention Tom King , now Lord King , who represent Bridgwater for 31 year , until 2001 . it be a mark of the respect and affection in which he be hold that his name be mention so many time on the doorstep during my campaign . Tom also write a helpful endorsement say why people should vote for I , which only go to show how wise he be . Bridgwater be an industrial town . it have many small business , and I will do all I can to support they . we need to encourage entrepreneurial spirit , because that be how we create prosperity for all our citizen . we welcome thousand of tourist every year to enjoy our beautiful Somerset coastline . I want to encourage those tourist to spend long in Somerset , to visit more of our beautiful countryside and to consume more of the excellent produce from our farmer and grower . Bridgwater be also the home of the Guy Fawkes carnival , the UK ' s old carnival , and one of the large illuminated carnival procession in Europe . hundred of volunteer work tirelessly to create this fantastic spectacle and to raise thousand of pound for charity . much have be achieve for Bridgwater and for Somerset over the past 14 year . Hinkley Point C be be construct and will provide secure and low - carbon energy to the whole region for generation . the electricity it produce will power Gravity , the smart campus where Agratas will build one of Europe ' s large gigafactorie . these two project will provide job and opportunity for year to come . the town of Bridgwater be award £ 23 million under the previous Government ' s town deal initiative . that will fund many important local project , include restore our historic dock and refurbish the art centre and the town hall theatre , but there be more to do . I will work with our new police and crime commissioner to tackle the antisocial behaviour that affect our town . I will campaign to protect Pawlett Hams and stop it be turn into an unwanted salt marsh by the Environment Agency . I will keep the promise I make during the campaign to Aaron Reid , the headteacher of Haygrove school . it be one of the top - perform school in Somerset , but also one of three school in England build by Caledonian Modular and now condemn as unsafe . the last Government promise to rebuild Haygrove , and I trust that the new Government will honour that promise . I will support the school as we work with the council and the new Government to find a solution that benefit the pupil and staff of Haygrove . I be proud to have be elect by the people of Bridgwater . I will serve they faithfully and to the good of my ability . to make his maiden speech , I call Richard Baker . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to give my maiden speech . it be a privilege to follow so many excellent maiden speech in this important debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) on his powerful and witty speech . I must also congratulate in particular my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) on his excellent speech , too . as a former professional golfer , it be fitting that he win his seat on such a huge swing , and his brilliant speech show we why . the bar have be set intimidatingly high in this debate . I feel all the more honoured to be elect by the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife to be their representative in the House and follow in the footstep of predecessor who serve the constituency with such distinction . I pay tribute to the outgoing MP , Peter Grant , who serve with such commitment and so diligently on behalf of his constituent . he will rightly be proud in particular of his contribution to the successful campaign for the reintroduction of the Levenmouth rail link both as Fife council leader and as an MP , for his service on the Public Accounts Committee and for campaign for the right of victim of financial scandal through his role on the all - party parliamentary group on personal banking and fair financial service . I also pay tribute to Peter ' s predecessor , Lindsay Roy , who be such a brilliant MP for the constituency . today , Lindsay be a tireless advocate for Parkinson ' s UK , make the case with passion and eloquence for improved support for people with Parkinson ' s and for investment in medical research . his example should not only give hope to people with Parkinson ' s ; he be an inspiration to we all . I be a new member in this Parliament , but I be privileged to serve in the Scottish Parliament for 12 year . I have already observe some of the difference between Holyrood and here . this institution be old and often more complex — as indeed be many of its member — and there be many procedure and protocol to learn , but while there be difference between the Parliaments , the purpose we have be a common one : to serve our constituent . we have hear over the past week how it be vital to have strong relationship between the UK Government and the devolved administration . that be of course true . however , I believe that there be still too few opportunity for member of each of our UK Parliaments to work together on many matter of share responsibility and interest . I hope that there can be great collaboration between all our parliamentarian in the course of the next five year . on a personal note , may I say that I be proud that my wife Claire Baker continue to serve the people of Mid Scotland and Fife in the Scottish Parliament with such skill and dedication ? I be delighted that Claire and our daughter Catherine could be in the Gallery when I be swear in . I have also be greatly privileged to work for disability charity in my time away from elect politic . for the past two year , I have work with the charity Enable in a role support people with learn disability on campaign for their right , not to speak on their behalf but to support they to be their own advocate for change as expert by experience . in the medium , in public forum and in Parliaments , enable member ambassador have tell their own story and powerfully argue the case for a more equal society . the need to tackle these inequality be clear when people with learning disability have a life expectancy of 20 year less than the rest of the population , only about 7 % be in pay employment , they have few opportunity in education and they be twice as likely to experience bullying . I will miss work with they , but I will not miss the opportunity in this Parliament to make our country a fairer and a more equal place for disabled people . I will also not miss the opportunity to be a champion in the Chamber for the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife . the constituency stretch across Fife , from Methil , Buckhaven and the Wemyss village on the coast to ancient Markinch and the new town of Glenrothes , and from Kinglassie and Cardenden and the village of Benarty to Lochgelly and Kelty . those and other community in the constituency have their own history and priority , but so many be link by their proud connection to the mining industry . that be why the decision by this Government to end the injustice of the miner ' pension scheme , so that fund in the scheme be keep for its beneficiary , will be so important for so many of my constituent . the community of my constituency can look back on a proud industrial heritage , but it be vital that they can also look forward to their future as a hub for innovation , technology and our grow renewable sector . the biomass plant at Markinch , the hydrogen for domestic energy pilot at Buckhaven , and the Fife energy park at Methil be all example of how our constituency can benefit from the exciting plan for GB Energy and our goal for Scotland to play a lead role in make Britain a green energy powerhouse . we have to seize this opportunity . buckhaven and Methil have the high number of deprive community in Fife , which be why we have to realise the ambition for the area and increase employment through expansion in renewable . it be vital that UK Ministers work collaboratively with management , union , the Scottish Government and Fife council to ensure that despite the financial difficulty of Harland & Wolff , which operate the fabrication yard at Methil , the 200 skilled job and apprenticeship at the yard be secure , along with its infrastructure and facility . that skilled workforce and the facility at the yard will be instrumental in realise Fife ' s ambition to be a thriving hub for the renewable sector in Scotland . it mean so much to I to be give the chance to be a champion for our part of Scotland . my mother be a teacher at Beath High , the school attend by one of our most celebrated novelist Sir Ian Rankin , who grow up in Cardenden in the constituency . in Sir Ian ' s book " Set in Darkness " , Inspector Rebus carry out criminal investigation at the Scottish Parliament . we can only wonder where he find inspiration for the plot of his novel , but I be sure we can all agree that Fife can be proud to call one of our fine writer one of our own . I also know how resilient our community can be , and how we can look to well day even after the tough of time . when I be grow up in Fife , my father be a vicar in Lochgelly during the miner ' strike . my father - in - law Jim be a proud member of the National Union of Mineworkers . when I stand for election to this place in 2015 , he give I a miner ' s lamp to bring with I to Westminster if I win , to remind I what I be here to do . I be not elect in 2015 , and after that election nearly 10 year ago , many would have think that the flame of the Labour and trade union movement be fragile and flickering , but today in this Parliament it burn bright than ever . ten year later , the lamp will be with I here in Westminster , and it will remind I why I be here : to deliver the change that our country need and to show that , through political action , we can deliver the strong , fair society that so many people in my constituency give so much to achieve . may I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ? it be a pleasure to participate in today ' s debate on the King ' s Speech and to follow the hon . member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) , who be one of many on both side of the House who give a warm and positive speech . we welcome that context because , although cross - party there will be much political debate about the content of the King ' s Speech , we all recognise that it be a privilege and an honour to be in this House and to participate in that debate on behalf of our constituent . I thank my constituent in Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner for return I for my second term as a Member of Parliament . there be a number of thing in the King ' s Speech that they would wish I to draw attention to , such as the damaging impact of vat on school — the taxing of education be of huge concern in my constituency , which have many mainstream and special educational need independent school . they would also wish I to mention the loss of green - belt protection and the decision of an incoming Government to prioritise the deregulation of the green belt rather than build the 1 . 4 million home that already have plan permission in our country . on the decision to press ahead with GB Energy , those of we with a background in local government know that it be a policy model that bring the city of Nottingham and Bristol to the very edge of bankruptcy . we will hold the Government to account to ensure that GB Energy do not do to the United Kingdom what the decision of those Labour council to press ahead with those project do to the capacity of local authority to deliver vital public service , as well as increase bill for vulnerable household . the main theme of today ' s debate be immigration and home affair . have serve briefly as a parliamentary private Secretary in the Ministry of Justice in the previous Parliament , I welcome the tone of many thing that have be say about criminal justice . in particular , I hope to see the new Government continue the commitment , as previously set out , to sentence reform . all of we , in all party , wish to see few victim of crime . the previous Member for Cheltenham , who receive a very warm tribute from his successor the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , set out measure on the use of modern technology and tag that aim to ensure that we bring down the rate of reoffending which have long dog the criminal justice system here in the UK . as a Member of Parliament who proudly represent a suburban constituency in London , I recognise that follow the 2014 reform on shoplifting , which be agree in partnership with the retail sector , the police and the security industry , it be time to look again at how they work . we welcome the fact that , overall , there be a major reduction in serious crime in particular under the previous Government , but we will be hold the Government to account and Mayor Khan to account for the fact that his neglect of the suburb have leave many of our constituent concern about the availability of police team which in theory should be there but all too often seem to be abstract for other duty . the measure to protect shopworker need to be part of that context of the reform of how we deal with shoplifting to ensure that anyone who work in retail or own a business in retail enjoy the protection from our police force and our criminal law that they rightly deserve . on illegal migration , there be a lot of noise and fuss , but I hope the Government will continue patiently with the work do previously , in particular with the authority in France . I have meet the people do that work , both here in the UK and on the french side , to bring to justice criminal gang — the successful prosecution achieve of those involve in set up smuggling . I pay tribute to the work of the BBC in shed light on the complexity of the international gang , highlight how often the kingpin seek to find refuge in place such as Iraq , where they be beyond the reach not just of the criminal law in the United Kingdom but in that of Europe too . I hope that when the Government set out that commitment we will see effective measure put in place . I say gently to the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who be no long in his place , that we know from the extensive debate around the echr that it stand as no barrier whatever to the deportation of criminal and those who should not be here . we have successfully achieve that in respect of many , many country . what we need to ensure be that people be no long put their life at risk in the channel . I will finish with a brief word about the NHS . those who visit Hillingdon hospital and Northwood and Pinner cottage hospital in my constituency will see that work be under way to deliver those project . I can promise the Government that I will be hold they to account to ensure that those project be complete . as this be my first time be return to Parliament , I would like sincerely to thank all the House staff for make the process so smooth for I and all our new colleague . I be delighted to say that this King ' s Speech have fill I with hope . we have suffer over a decade of Tory neglect , mismanagement and chaos . we have endure five Prime Ministers , seven chancellor , 10 Education Secretaries , 12 Culture Secretaries and 16 Housing Ministers . finally , we have a Labour Government with a plan to put politic back into the service of work people . we have a plan to save the NHS ; nationalise the railway ; reform benefit ; recruit more teacher ; properly fund council ; invest in green energy ; clean up our river ; provide child with breakfast in school every day ; prioritise woman ' s health ; reduce the gender pay gap ; create a national care service ; and bring transparency and accountability back to public office . it finally feel like the adult have enter the room , but I be under no illusion : the hard work be just begin . nine month ago , I stand in this Chamber , albeit on the Opposition Benches , to respond to the King ' s Speech in despair at the level of crime and antisocial behaviour impact our community in the Erdington constituency . my constituency have the high rate of knife crime in the west midland . People contact I almost daily about Erdington high street . resident have make it very clear that they be frightened to go into the high street . I hear the same story time and again : our high street have become unrecognisable . where we use to have thrive small business we now have empty shop front , drug dealing and violence , so we have our work cut out . Labour have inherit chaos in community police . huge issue in our criminal justice system mean that not only be crime not be prevent , but it be not be punish either . that be why I welcome the new neighbourhood police guarantee . when we speak about crime and antisocial behaviour , we must also talk about community mental health . as a district nurse and an independent lay manager — I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — I know how mental health service have be decimate , and how badly our community be suffer in silence when it come to their mental health . we can not prevent crime without talk about mental health and improve community service , and I be glad to see provision to modernise the Mental Health Act and make it fit for the future . this King ' s Speech show labour ' s commitment to change : a commitment to high growth and cheap bill , a commitment to put the NHS back on its foot , and , crucially for my constituency , a commitment to create safe street . it be vital that we crack down on antisocial behaviour and violent crime in our community so that everyone can feel safe , and I be delighted that the King ' s Speech pledge to create new respect order , to halve serious violence in the next decade , and to take strong action to tackle violence against woman and girl and knife crime . when I stand here nine month ago , I say : " we need to stop the decline and start fight for a well future . " — [ Official Report , 15 November 2023 ; Vol . 740 , c . 742 well , that fight start now . I call Paul Kohler to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech — although I must admit to a degree of trepidation follow the excellent maiden speech of the hon . member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) . it be a compelling , poignant and witty speech , as be so many of those that go before . it be a huge and humble honour to be elect to represent and serve the people of Wimbledon , a name that be synonymous with strawberry and cream , grass court and tennis , but a constituency that include so much more , extend from Morden underground station in the south — where you , Madam Deputy Speaker , have your constituency office — to Old Malden in the west , where the Pre - Raphaelite masterpiece " Ophelia " be paint by Sir John Everett Millais on , or more accurately in , the Hogsmill river . Wimbledon be a suburb of London , but have two farm , a village , a wonderful common , the occasional Womble , three professional and many amateur theatre , two cinema , the Wimbledon College of Arts — part of the University of the Arts London — and vibrant small business , many of they in the art and hospitality . it have a park design by Capability Brown , although that be currently under threat from the All England Club — member should see my early - day motion for further detail — and the beautiful River Wandle , when it be not blight by that run motif in so many Liberal Democrat speech , sewage . its housing stock range from grand mansion to crumble social housing . it have one of the most affluent and well - educate electorate in the country , but also a 38 % deprivation rate , despite the good effort of excellent local charity include Dons Local Action Group , Wimbledon Guild and Faith in Action . it be also a diverse and harmonious constituency , boast one of the large mosque in Europe , a beautiful buddhist temple , a Reform synagogue , Europe ' s first fully consecrate Hindu temple , the Papal Nuncio , and christian church and place of worship of almost every denomination . as well as host the world ' s premier tennis tournament , we be home to England ' s most progressive football club , AFC Wimbledon — a club which know that fan , not the money man , be the beat heart of any team , and a club which embody the value at the heart of the Government ' s eagerly await and much anticipated football governance Bill . that be unlike , it pain I to say , my own team , Crystal Palace , which have previously argue against the reform herald in the Bill , much to my shame . that be not to mention the shame of my constituent , who have just learn that their MP be a Crystal Palace fan . I be play a dangerous game here , because , as our defeat opponent now know and we will no doubt know some day , constituent be not slow to show their displeasure . a few week ago , I knock on one door and ask the gentleman who answer if he have decide for whom he be go to vote . " I like she , " he say . " she — the Conservative ? " I reply . " no , her , " he respond . " what , the labour candidate ? " " yeah , I like she . I don ' t like he much . " " who ? " " he . I don ' t like he . " " what , the Lib Dem ? " " yeah , I don ' t like he . " " you mean I ? " " I don ' t like he . " " that ' s I . " " I really don ' t like he . " " that ' s I ! " " what , you ? " " yes . " " oh . nothing personal , mate . " but politic be personal , of course . not infrequently , it be much too personal , although my conservative predecessor , Stephen Hammond , and I stay the right side of the line most of the time . we see each other as opponent , rather than enemy . at this point , I must pay tribute to Stephen , who be a hard - work and commit constituency MP — due in no small part to the prodigious effort of his office manager , his wife Sally , who run a tight ship and a very efficient operation . quite bizarrely , while Stephen and Sally be now task with let staff go and dismantle that very office , I be keep busy try to replicate their exact set - up . how be that sensible , efficient or cost effective ? surely it would make more sense for every constituency to have a permanent MP ' s office that be staff by caseworker who , as in a department of state , move seamlessly , along with the ongoing casework , from the outgoing MP to the incoming MP . but it be what it be . as liberal Wimbledon ' s first ever Liberal MP , I will , despite the distraction , work tirelessly to represent my constituent and their value . as an academic lawyer , I will do all I can to defend the rule of law , which be under threat from our badly neglect and crumble civil and criminal justice system . in particular , our prison and probation service be in crisis . may I take this opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister on the inspire appointment of James Timpson as Prisons Minister ? there can be no one well than the chair of the Prison Reform Trust , who have walk the talk throughout his professional life , to lead a national debate on the role of prison and imprisonment . we need to explore more effective alternative to prison , include house arrest and curfew , while put the victim at the heart of the criminal justice system by fully embrace restorative justice — something that I know from personal experience can have a transformative effect on victim , as it do on my family , with the add bonus of dramatically curtail rate of recidivism . there be much more I would like to say — for example , about the need to restore neighbourhood policing , which , as the Home Secretary say early , be decimate under the previous Government . somewhat more parochially , there be an urgent need to guarantee the long - term future of Wimbledon police station , which , six year after my judicial review quash the Mayor of London ' s decision to close it , remain under threat , despite the Casey report make it clear that local police station be critical to the success of neighbourhood police . but those discussion will have to wait for another day . to conclude , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I just say that I look forward to work constructively with member on all side of the House on these and the many other press issue that face we , both now and in the year to come ? I call Ben Coleman to make his maiden speech . thank you very much for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a great honour for I to follow my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , who speak with passion about the NHS and her great expertise in this area , and to follow the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , who talk about the joy of canvassing , which I find interesting . it have be really lovely to hear so many other fantastic maiden speech from my hon . friend . I be incredibly proud to be stand here as the first ever Labour Member of Parliament for Chelsea and Fulham , and I thank all those voter who put their trust in I . I realise , with a majority of 152 , that that be not everyone , but I also realise that many people there will have vote Labour for the first time and I promise to be on the side of all my constituent . boundary change mean that I follow in the illustrious step of two people . my conservative predecessor Greg Hands serve 19 year in this House , and for 11 of they he be a Minister . he hold senior role in the Treasury , in Trade and in Business , and he be twice Minister for London . he be also the chair of the conservative party at one point . he approach his job , as he approach all his job , with impressive energy , determination and loyalty to his party , and I know he will be miss by many of his constituent . I be also delighted to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for the new constituency of Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , two of whose former ward I now have . I be extremely grateful for his generosity to I , both during the campaign and since . he be an absolute local legend with voter . plenty of people say , " well , I ' m go to vote labour , but it have to be Andy , not you . " I be go to try very hard — maybe I will fail — to live up to that local legend , and the challenge and high standard that he have set . Chelsea and Fulham really be a wonderful place to represent . it run along the River Thames from just by Charing Cross hospital down to Chelsea bridge . that be three bridge away from this House , if any of you want to go and visit it . a walk of less than an hour take you from the 150 - year - old market in Fulham ' s North End Road to the world - famous King ' s Road in Chelsea , with its iconic role in pop , art and fashion culture in the swinge ' 60 and the punk and the new romantic of the ' 70 and ' 80 . there be also four world - class hospital . we be incredibly lucky to have the Royal Brompton , the Royal Marsden , the Charing Cross hospital and the Chelsea and Westminster hospital . there be too many outstanding school across the primary and secondary sector to name . we be also bless with two premier league team : Chelsea football club and Fulham , and both of they be steep in sport history . like so much of London , Chelsea and Fulham be enrich by a diverse community . we have people from african - Caribbean , Somali , arab and european background . indeed , the french MP for Northern Europe — yes , there be a french MP for Northern Europe — tell I that two third of all the French in this country live in my area and the area represent by my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , so it be quite a french area as well . Chelsea and Fulham be also home to hundred of Army veteran who have sacrifice for their country , from the resident of Stoll Mansions in Fulham to the Chelsea pensioner at the Royal Hospital . I have to say that champion the Stoll military veteran as they face lose their community recently be one of my great privilege , and I be grateful to the Secretary of State for Defence for visit they with I and lend his support to the campaign . I know that many of the veteran will be delighted that he now represent veteran in Cabinet , and I hope he will visit they again when they move to their new home in Fulham . Fulham , together with Hammersmith , have the distinction of be the only place in England where the council — a Labour council — provide social care at home for free . I be responsible for oversee that as the council ' s former cabinet member for health and adult social care , and I very much look forward to join the debate about the funding of social care across our country . but against all this , I be afraid there be trouble in paradise . alongside the great wealth in Chelsea and Fulham , there be also painful poverty . I can not tell you how grateful I be to all the local charity who provide essential support to the many people in need . food bank have be mention by several hon . member on both side of the House during today ' s debate . for I , if anything be an indictment of the past 14 year , it be that food bank have become part of the british way of life . the food bank that serve Fulham today feed more people in one month than it do in the whole of 2012 , when it start . at the food bank that serve Chelsea , demand have go up by 800 % since it open its door in 2018 . People who be in work be use food bank , as well as child and pensioner . the demand for they be grow , and poverty , locally and nationally , be make much bad by the persistent inequality , both in Chelsea and Fulham and across our country , not least of race and disability . these be also issue that I feel passionate about and will be pursue in my time here in this House . and then we have Charing Cross hospital . I be proud that I help to save this wonderful hospital when the previous Government try to sell most of it off . at the time , they promise to give the hospital a floor - by - floor refurbishment . it desperately need modernisation and rebuilding , and they promise to do so by 2030 , but then they break their promise . another problem face my constituent be that Thames Water constantly dump sewage into the Thames by Chelsea and Fulham . last week alone , it just chuck the stuff in for nearly 24 hour . there have be no regulation and no proper control over the last 14 year . the wonderful houseboat community down by the river in Chelsea face an existential threat from a predatory , secretive landlord , and I will be do more to stick up for that community , too . I have mention the King ' s Road , and its resident be very worried about the huge office block spoil the area . Marks & Spencer seem to have become a property developer , not just a purveyor of sausage , sandwich and underwear . my constituent be also worried about crime and the lack of neighbourhood police . high price and rent be push family and young people out of the area and , as it have be so incredibly difficult to build social housing over the past 14 year , thousand of my constituent be live in overcrowded condition or be wait year to be offer a secure , genuinely affordable home . this be all in Chelsea and Fulham . against that backdrop , the good news for my constituent be that we now have a Labour Government who be determined to renew the country . we have a new approach , we be focus on grow our economy and we be , thank goodness , reset our european relationship , which be very much welcome by my constituent — Chelsea and Fulham be one of the most pro - european constituency in the country . the other good news be that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have already pledge to rebuild and modernise Charing Cross hospital , and the Government have already start crack down on the water company . they have start to develop a new child poverty strategy , and they be start to take back our street , which my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington mention — early today , my right hon . friend the Home Secretary set out so well the step we be take . People who rent privately will get new right and protection from this Government , and we will build 1 . 5 million decent home in which people can actually afford to live . as the Government begin their journey of repair and rebuild our country , I come back to the word of a good friend of mine , Phil Storey , who run the food bank that serve Fulham . he say to I the other day , " we want to stop people ever need food bank . the day we can close our door because we be no long need be the day I dream of . " I make this pledge to my constituent . as the Member of Parliament for Chelsea and Fulham , work with the Labour Government , I will do all I can to strengthen our economy , to build a fairer , safe and kind society , and to bring Phil ' s dream close to reality . I congratulate the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) on his maiden speech . it be a great privilege to serve in this place , and I welcome he . I also congratulate the Government Front Benchers as they take on their ministerial responsibility . I will focus on three bit of legislation mention in the King ' s Speech that have generate interest among my constituent in Chesham and Amersham . the first be the water special measure Bill , because the liberal Democrats have lead the charge on call for tough penalty for water company that dump sewage in our river and fail their customer . I be therefore keen to learn more about the Bill and the power it will give to ban bonus and introduce new fine . resident and business in Chalfont St Peter spend the first half of this year struggle to cope with sewage - fill floodwater . some have the horrible experience of their bathroom and kitchen plug hole burp sewage into their home . Thames Water later admit to I that the cause of at least some of this sewage be bring into home be that the company ' s tanker have release floodwater , which they have pump out of another area , into the wrong location , overload the drain . Thames Water ' s response to this year ' s various problem in different part of my constituency have be disgraceful , so I look forward to hear how the Government will ensure that Ofwat finally use its tooth and start hold the like of Thames Water to account . the second Bill in the King ' s Speech that I would like to touch on be the planning and infrastructure Bill . I represent a constituency where a significant amount of land be classify as green belt . my constituent be keen to get a definition of what " grey belt " mean . other than poor quality and ugly , there have be little detail about exactly what land would fall into that category . I also look forward to hear what step the Government will take to ensure that any new development include the GP practice , other vital service and infrastructure to support they . the third announcement in the King ' s Speech that I would like to talk about be the Government plan to end vat exemption for independent school . the issue have be raise with I by several parent who send their child to independent school in order to receive additional support for special educational need and disability . I welcome the confirmation I have receive that pupil with an education , health and care plan will remain exempt from vat . there be , however , child receive support for SEND in the independent sector who do not have ehcp . I hope that the Government can offer assurance that such child will be take into account as they pursue this policy . I will end by mention healthcare . while I welcome the Government ' s focus on reduce waiting time , I be disappoint not to see specific mention of improve access to GP appointment , because that be raise with I week in , week out . just this weekend it be raise by resident in Gerrards Cross , where there be no GP practice . I hope that , with their significant mandate , the Government will give access to GP appointment the attention it desperately need . rail in public ownership , strong worker ’ right , a publicly own energy supplier , a ban on no - fault eviction and an end to the non - dom tax status — these be some of the key foundation to recovery that we can celebrate in this King ' s Speech , after 14 year of austerity , privatisation and squeeze living standard , but I want to touch on a few thing that be not include . I be pleased to support the amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) . remove the two - child benefit cap be the most cost - effective and immediate way for our Government to lift 300 , 000 child out of poverty . the notion that in the sixth - large economy in the world we can not find the money have to be wrong . while the taskforce be good , we must make move as soon as possible to make this be a reality . if there be a national emergency , we would find the money . if the level of child poverty at the moment be not a national emergency , I do not know what be . I be also pleased to support the amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) to end the supply of arm to Israel and uphold international law . the Government have call for a ceasefire and we need to back that up with action . I will focus the majority of my remark on the dreadful legislative legacy on civil liberty leave behind by the previous Government . if we take simply the broad heading of our liberty , the previous Government curb the right to protest , to free assembly , to freedom of speech , to organise in trade union and to freedom from covert operation by the state . the right to vote have be supresse . religious freedom be attack through the demonisation of Muslims and muslim community . we can not possibly pose as champion of freedom and democracy while these stain remain on our statute book . in addition , we should note that the previous Government do nothing to correct the gross imbalance that now exist between employer and trade union with regard to worker ' right . they promise to block the gross abuse that lead to the scandal at P & o but do absolutely nothing . they also toy with the idea of regularise the legislative mess around a woman ' s right to choose , and so address issue of woman ' s sexual and reproductive health , and expand access to safe and legal abortion throughout the country . we can not repeat these serial failure to act . this be about what it mean to live in a free society . furthermore , there be a slew of secondary legislation , rule and guidance that infringe or suppress the right of citizen . there be too many to mention , but I be think about the Covert Human Intelligence Sources ( Criminal Conduct ) Act 2021 , the Overseas Operations Act 2021 , the Elections Act 2022 and the Public Order Act 2023 . a run theme throughout those act be , in effect , to place officer of the state above the law — whether they be police officer , member of the armed service , member of the security service or other — as long as they be act under the direction of a more senior officer . these law severely curtail the fundamental right of citizen . under these act , it be officer of the state who decide what be lawful , not the court . I remind hon . and right hon . member that place agent of the state above the law be almost the very definition of a police state . it be authoritarian and anti - democratic . it be not the legal basis of a free and democratic society . the same be true of any claim that be make that officer of the state determine the law . they do not ; their duty be to uphold it . over time , I would confidently expect each and every one of these piece of legislation to face legal challenge , include , if necessary , in the European Court , because they be so flawed and draconian . if our democracy be go to work for everyone , it have to include everyone . our party have already make important commitment to extend the franchise to young people by bring in automatic voter registration . scrap the exclusory voter ID law that the Tories introduce be another urgent priority to strengthen engagement in the democratic process . a survey by More in Common estimate that more than 400 , 000 people be prevent from vote in the general election due to these undemocratic rule . the same research show that people of colour be 2 . 5 time more likely to be turn away . let we be clear about this : any law that disproportionately stop black and brown people from participate in our democracy be racist . the voter ID law be introduce on the pretence of tackle voter fraud , yet between 2017 and 2022 there be just 18 conviction . compare that with the 400 , 000 people block from vote at the ballot box . there be so many thing that we want to see . I want to congratulate the Prime Minister on his announcement that there will be an early repeal of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . this , too , be an anti - democratic , authoritarian measure that place member of the armed force above the law . the Prime Minister ' s announcement on this should be a model for the rest of the legislation that I have mention . it be also very important to look at some of the action that the previous Government take . they rush legislation through in a very hurried way . in fact , they give we a model for do thing in the future . I wish to point out that the people of this country vote against that government , so let we repeal all of their awful legislation both quickly and decisively . I call Frank McNally to make his maiden speech . it be a pleasure to follow the passionate speech of my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) . I come to this House as the new Member for Coatbridge and Bellshill . to have be elect to represent the community that I have always call home be humble , and it be a responsibility that I do not take lightly . I wish to start by thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , Mr Speaker and the House staff for what have be an incredible welcome here at the Palace of Westminster . it can not be easy herd 300 - plus new and excitable mps around , but you have do so diligently and I commend all the staff of the House . I also wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , Steven Bonnar , who serve as the Member for Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill in the previous Parliament . we live in volatile political time , and it be important to remember that there be often more that unite we than divide we . that be the case with Steven and I , and I wish he , his family and his staff all the very good for the future . my seat have be well represent over many year , but , perhaps alarmingly for I , it have have five different mp in recent time . in fact , there have be a new MP elect at every election since 2015 . I fervently hope that that tradition will come to an end at the next election . I also wish to pay tribute to my other predecessor and friend , include Hugh Gaffney and , of course , Sir Tom Clarke , who serve this place with great distinction for 33 year . he be a man knight by both his Majesty the King and his Holiness the Pope for his service to those in the most need , particularly the disabled . Sir Tom ' s predecessor be the late Jimmy Dempsey , a legend across Coatbridge and Bellshill . Jimmy ' s first speech in the House , in 1959 , be on unemployment and worker ’ right . his final speech , just before his death 23 year later , be on the exact same subject . I be confident that he would be incredibly proud of Labour ' s new deal for work people , the employment right Bill so ably champion by my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister . my constituency be root in Lanarkshire , make up of the town and village of Coatbridge and Bellshill , of Mossend , Gartcosh , Glenboig , Moodiesburn , Bargeddie , Viewpark , Fallside , Birkenshaw and Tannochside — I be sure that if I have miss one , my constituent will be chap my door or send I message as I speak . my constituency be once know as the " iron burgh " , the beat heart of Scotland ' s industrial heritage , from the mining village to the steel town — sadly consign , for the most part , to history . that history include the fire at the Auchengeich colliery on 18 September 1959 , result in Scotland ' s bad mining disaster of the 20th century : 47 miner lose their life , 41 woman be widow and 76 child lose their father . the 65th anniversary be later this year , when we will gather to remember those lose , but also to redouble our effort to ensure that workplace protection , safe condition and worker ’ right exist to serve all people , no matter the job or the industry , or the age . I know that the retire miner will be absolutely delighted that it be announce in the King ' s Speech that those on the Treasury Bench would be end the injustice of the mineworker pension scheme . out of the post - industrial landscape a new mosaic continue to form in my area — one of manufacturing , of distribution , of new technology , and of local business that have generate international reach , include at Strathclyde business park in Bellshill , which continue to attract local and global company . bellshill be also famous for its former maternity hospital , which operate for over 120 year . it be the birthplace of many big name . one national newspaper a few year ago run the headline , " the Town that give Birth to Legends " . include within that legend category be my noble Friends Lord Reid of Cardowan and Baroness Hazarika of Coatbridge , both of whom move and second the Gracious Speech in the other place last week . they be bear in the same place just a few year apart — as be the late former right hon . member for Livingston , Robin Cook ; Texas superstar Sharlene Spiteri ; and even one Sheena Easton . the hospital ' s final incarnation be open by her late Majesty the Queen in 1962 , which be quite a moment for Bellshill . sadly , I will be unlikely to acquire legend status as I be bear in Greenock . I think it be appropriate at this point to thank my parent , Danny and Edwina , and my wife Steph , who have be a tremendous source of strength . without their steadfast encouragement , I would never have seek to stand for election to this place . so if it all go wrong , if I be ever disorderly or I ever rebel , Mr Speaker and the Whips will know who to blame . when reflect on today ' s debate , when we move beyond some of the rhetoric that we hear around immigration , it be important to recognise the tremendous contribution that immigrant make to our society , and have do over many generation — my own family include — from irish immigrant settle in Coatbridge in the 19th century to the Lithuanian community that thrive in Mossend , and now ukrainian refugee , hundred of whom have settle in my constituency follow Putin ' s barbaric invasion of their homeland ; force from their family , their home , their job and their way of life . I be proud of the welcome that they have receive from my constituent and key agency across Coatbridge and Bellshill . the contribution that immigrant have make , and continue to make , to our economy , our public service and our community more broadly , be immense . sadly , not all of that history be good . it be a tale often blight by racism , sectarianism and hatred , which we should fight every day to root out — and keep out — of our society . on my first visit back to my constituency after my first week here in Parliament , I have the opportunity to visit Coatbridge community food bank . the team there do exceptional work in incredibly challenging circumstance . as many right hon . and hon . member have cite today , every day we see people be push to the brink and hear story of those who be endure enviable hardship and have understandably lose hope . make their life well be my mission and my purpose in this place . I welcome the provision outline in the Gracious Speech , from a serious plan to grow the economy to support business and improve public service ; from GB Energy — which , in case anyone happen to miss the memo , will be headquarter in Scotland — to a new deal for work people that address the scourge of low pay and tackle exploitative practice , and a real strategy to end the scourge of poverty . I look forward to work with right hon . and hon . member across the House . as I begin my journey here , our Government have also begin their journey to make our country fair and well , and to stand up and fight for those in the most need , root in the value and history of the Labour movement . I wish they all the good of luck in their endeavour . I congratulate my hon . friend the new Member for Coatbridge and Bellshill ( Frank McNally ) on a fantastic speech , and congratulate all those we have hear from today across the House . it be evident that this Parliament be go to be a vital and vibrant forum for debate , and it be refreshing to have not only so many new face , but clearly so much ability here . they say that a week be a long time in politic , and perhaps the last fortnight feel like a lifetime . we have see optimism surge across the country , palpably improve , because the public see a Government with purpose and act at pace . we have see 40 new Bills introduce through the King ' s Gracious Speech . an electrifying pace have be adopt , and I commend both the Prime Minister and the whole Front - Bench team for the work they be do . from halve violence against woman and girl to the scrapping of the Rwanda proposal , from put in place special measure against water company to the football governance Bill , the list go on . however , it be the legislation aim at address the instability and insecurity in our country , while deliver prosperity , that I think be so important . that instability be feel by people , business and public authority and be perhaps see by other national government , and our economy experience catastrophic consequence from the kamikaze Budget 18 month ago . I welcome the legislation that have be put forward to achieve that goal . that insecurity manifest itself in many different way . we see 14 million people live in poverty , 4 . 3 million of they child , and 1 million , incredibly , live in destitution . we see insecurity of tenure and the rise of no - fault eviction , which be why legislation for renter ’ right be so important , and the insecurity of leasehold , hence the importance of the legislation on leasehold and commonhold . we see the insecurity of work , the zero - hour contract and the loss of right in the workplace that people suffer . that be why the employment right Bill will be so important . it be all down to the economy . what we can do with the economy , in address and repair the corrosion work by austerity , be so important . I believe the mean will now be at our disposal , through the establishing of a national wealth fund . we have see sovereign wealth fund in many other country and what they have do to transform those country . I believe the legislation address pension scheme , unlock the wealth that we have here , will be an important contribution to that . something like less than 2 % of the £ 2 . 5 trillion of pension fund asset run by 30 , 000 often very small scheme be invest in UK . that be such a small proportion . there will be benefit for the UK , but also for our wide economy . above all , we will address and reform planning legislation and infrastructure , bring more affordable housing to our town and city — particularly town such as Warwick and Leamington , where we have relatively high property cost . the King ' s high school site , right in the heart of Warwick , have lie dormant for five year because the developer have not get around to develop it . the legislation to deliver GB Energy will be so important for transform the energy mix in this country , double our onshore wind , treble our solar energy production and quadruple our offshore wind . the great grid upgrade , for which National Grid have be push for so long , will be so important . critically , it will bring down bill by an average of £ 300 per household while address climate change at the same time . I believe that education be at the core of what we can bring , along with a modern industrial strategy . the work be do by the Education team be so important . what can our university bring to this equation ? high education be so important , and university be real dynamo — generator of wealth and prosperity — in our region through their scientific research , the development of new material and research project , and the new energy cluster . this be a new Government of energy , ambition and public service who will put country first , party second . I call Helena Dollimore to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech during this important debate on the King ' s Speech , which set out the agenda of change that the country vote for and which this Labour Government will deliver . I congratulate all new member who have make maiden speech today . it be the honour of my life to represent my home of Hastings and Rye . I know that you be very familiar , Madam Deputy Speaker , with all that we in Hastings and Rye have to offer visitor — especially our famous fish and chip . in recent year , our fisherman have work hard to keep our local fishing industry go in the most difficult of circumstance , and they will always have my full support . Hastings and Rye host the world crazy golf championship every year , and we also hold the world record for the big gathering of pirate in any one place — a record that we try to beat every year on pirate day . although one of my predecessor in represent rye be himself a real pirate , I be relieve to say that that can not be say for many of they . Sally - Ann Hart work extremely hard for our constituency , and I thank she in particular for her work in support of woman and child flee domestic abuse — a legacy that I hope to build on . another thing that we wholeheartedly agree on be speak out about the unacceptable level of abuse and intimidation that too many member of this House have face , particularly woman . the plaque of the late Jo Cox be face we , and that of Sir David Amess be behind I . they be a constant and tragic reminder of where that can end . I also pay tribute to my labour predecessor , Michael Foster . he be well know in our area for help so many resident and for have be a passionate champion for Hastings and Rye during his time in this House . many member will know our area for a very famous battle that take place in 1066 . historian may still be argue about where exactly it take place , but it be safe to say that it have cement our place in the history book . since then , we have continue to play our part in british history — from be immortalise in the novel " the Ragged Trousered Philanthropists " to be the birthplace of television . perhaps what define we most , though , be our community spirit , underpin by our volunteer and charity , who do so much . our calendar be full of carnival and festival , from Jack in the Green to bonfire night . those event be make possible only by volunteer who give up their time to give back to the community and raise money for our local charity . volunteer also maintain and protect so many of our amazing public space , from Hastings country park to Rye harbour nature reserve and Camber Sands . there be also some point of our history that we would rather forget , such as the unveiling of a certain stone tablet in Hastings during the 2015 general election campaign by my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) . that stone may have be consign to history , but I know that my right hon . friend will be back very soon to unveil some new green energy infrastructure , and that it will be long - last than the stone . although we have often find ourselves at the centre of historical event , we have not always feel all of the benefit . our road and rail infrastructure be stick in the past : we may be a similar distance from London as Brighton be , but our train take twice as long . we lie at the end of the A21 , a road that have be describe as the least develop in the south - east of England . as any driver will tell you , we have the bad pothole in the country , and our water infrastructure be also fail we : Southern Water have a lot to answer for in my constituency , dump record level of sewage along our coastline from St Leonards through Hastings to Fairlight , Pett , Camber Sands and Winchelsea beach . some sewage have even come into people ' s home and garden in my constituency , and when the water pipe have fail , we have face major flooding in home and the town centre and be leave without a water supply for day on end . I be pleased to see that the water special measure Bill , which will start to clean up our water industry , be part of this King ' s Speech . the cratered state of our road and crumble water infrastructure be symbolic of how we have too often be forget by Westminster . life expectancy be low than the national average , a trend that have get bad over the past 14 year . People wait long for an ambulance in my constituency than anywhere else in the south - east of England , and the situation be particularly bad in our village and rural area such as Winchelsea , where people wait 45 minute on average when have a stroke or heart attack . that be why this Government ' s plan to cut NHS waiting time can not come soon enough . as a seaside destination , our area have benefit hugely from tourism , but we be also at the sharp end of the housing crisis , with spiral rent and simply not enough home be build . too many of my constituent be leave in poor - quality rental accommodation , whether by Southern Housing or private landlord . that be why I so welcome the measure in this King ' s Speech to get Britain build again , build more home and give all renter more protection . this Government have a mission to break down the barrier to opportunity . that be sorely need in my constituency , where almost 40 % of child be grow up in poverty and over half our young people be leave school without the essential qualification of a grade 4 in English and math . how we treat our child say a lot about we as a society ; before join this House , I have the privilege of see that up close in many different country as an aid worker with Save the Children . it be always child who suffer the most in war and conflict . I have sit with young mum in Yemen hold their starve baby , so hungry that they do not have the energy to cry , and have hear harrowing story from Rohingya woman who have flee ethnic cleansing and sexual violence at the hand of the Myanmar military . I always promise those woman that I would share their story with the world , and my time in this place will be no different . we be at a time in history when more child be grow up in conflict than ever before . rightly , much focus have be devote recently to the appalling event in Israel and Palestine — there , too , it be child bear the brunt of war . we must redouble our effort to bring about peaceful solution to all these conflict , and must remember that all the global issue we face , from climate change to migration , can only be solve by work across border with our international ally and through strong , multilateral institution such as the United Nations . just as I have be so inspire by the woman I have meet live in some of the tough place on Earth , I also want to acknowledge some of the woman whose shoulder I stand on close to home . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know I speak for many Labour Members when I say how much we miss your sister , the late , great Baroness Margaret McDonagh . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] she always have such wise counsel to offer we , and that be the reason why many of we sit on these Benches today . I also thank my family and friend for all the support they have give I in get I to this place . this King ' s Speech will begin to deliver the change and renewal that Hastings and Rye vote for . I look forward to work hard for all my constituent across Hastings and Rye and deliver that much - need change . it be an absolute privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) . I watch early as she be polish her " Edstone " joke outside the Chamber , and it be deliver with aplomb . I be hope , for colleague ' sake , that I have to make this contribution to the King ' s Speech debate only once ; believe I , do thing twice be not what it be crack up to be . either way , it make a wonderful change to be on the Government Benches to speak in a King ' s Speech debate in which for once stability eclipse chaos , renewal surpasse decay and hope trump despair . let I tell my new colleague that it be not usually like this , at least it have not be for the past nine or 10 year , maybe long . too often , we have be here make speech that mourn the erosion of our democracy and our right at work and that can only bemoan the continual and unceasing scapegoating of our community , the destruction of our river , the undermining of our judicial system , the betrayal of international human right and the deepening of a climate crisis . but not today , because this King ' s Speech be a veritable cornucopia of progressive policy pregnant with the potential to unpick decade of drift and deterioration . I would not try to say that after a couple of pint . there be of course caveat . announcement on the two - child benefit cap and arm export licence to Israel be but two issue we await to hear more on in the near future . in the interim , however , I for one welcome the announcement of our anti - child poverty taskforce . if do properly , it have the potential to lift thousand of child from my constituency and million beyond out of hunger and hardship , and to give all our child the start in life they deserve — a start deny they by the last government . however , we could go far . we could build new institution and put power in the hand of those who need it most . one of the lesson I learn watch a Conservative Government close down labour ' s much - love and beloved sure Start centre be that , if we give community the ability to wealth - build and thus help themselves , the institution build can not simply be switch off by an incoming Government hostile to poverty reduction . the late and great Robin Cook understand this . he lament Labour government who " never change the system because they think they don ' t need to . and when they lose , they have no power to change it . " the marginality of this Parliament and the rise spectre of right - wing authoritarianism demand that we legislate as if this be a one - term Government , and one that could easily be follow by a Government with little respect for democracy , tolerance , progressive value or even human right . in this age of anger and perma - crisis , policy delivery be no long enough . transformative change , empowerment and new institution to deliver be what be need to future - proof society against the shock to come . we do not have to look far for example of what they could look like . the NHS be an institution that be the close thing to socialism this country have ever attain , and it be the reason most brit give as to why they be proud to be british . let we repower and rebuild our local authority — democratic institution that for too long have be undervalue , underfunde and strip of responsibility . let we redouble our effort to strengthen trade union — institution that push power back to people in the workplace . such institution , both new and old , will help undo 60 year of democratic erosion and make people feel empower over their own life . if we do this right , it will pull the rug from under the foot of the hatemonger and authoritarian , because they thrive on anger bear of powerlessness , a sense of betrayal and a vacuum of purpose . People - orientate , democratic , institutional power blow they away . I want to conclude with this observation . the true risk to this country be not the river of blood , as some would have we believe , but rather river of excrement and river run dry . in only a few decade ' time , my constituency might not have drink water , because of a combination of the climate crisis and corporate corruption in the form of price gouging and criminal level of under - investment . immigration and asylum do not lead we here any more than membership of the EU do . fail institution , the erosion of democracy and economic failure bring we here . it be that our Government must fix , so let we get to it . yesterday and today , I have witness a number of maiden speech from both side of the House . there have be some excellent contribution which I must say be absolutely wonderful to listen to . I would like to thank the resident of the newly draw constituency of Birmingham Hall Green and Moseley who have put their trust in I . it be a privilege and a great honour to speak in the King ' s Speech debate today . like most of my constituent , I be excite by the legislative agenda it set out . labour have hit the ground run with a bold plan for the transformation of our country that I believe will get we back on track after 14 year of chaos . it be because of that promise that I want to speak to several area cover in the King ' s Speech . first , I be proud of labour ' s commitment to the most ambitious house building programme in a generation , particularly in term of social housing . this programme must be design and implement in a way that address the significant regional disparity in housing provision . my constituent will be thankful for Labour ' s approach to youth provision . from tough measure to tackle antisocial behaviour and knife crime to educational reform through Skills England , I believe over the course of this Parliament our young people will receive the support and training they need to take advantage of every opportunity afford to they . the newly outline child ' s wellbee Bill will undoubtedly make a huge impact on family in my constituency , where child poverty be at unprecedented level . the provision of free breakfast club as well as the development of a new child poverty strategy be both welcome and necessary after 14 year of deprivation . this Bill will also provide extra support to child with special educational need , who need the great support and have previously be deny it . while there be argument in favour of retain the two - child benefit cap , it be also clear that we can go much far and lift hundred and thousand of child out of poverty . the significance of lift this cap for the most vulnerable in our society can not be overstate and I hope there be movement on this in coming month . I be particularly glad at the direction take by this Government towards regional and local government . as we all know , Birmingham be face an unprecedented financial crisis , put at risk value service such as library and support to child and family as well as infrastructure and investment . in the limited time available today , I will not be expand on what can be do to save those service , but debate and discussion will take place through other mean . that bring I to amendment ( c ) . I put my name forward to be add , but for whatever technical reason , it be not add . I want briefly to address some of the newly elect independent in this House . throughout the election they denounce the Labour party with divisive and harmful rhetoric . luckily , we be now able to measure their word against their action , and unsurprisingly they be find lack in sign a Labour amendment . " labour , the party of genocide " ; " Labour , the party of nastiness " — that be the rhetoric play out in the election campaign when many candidate , especially woman , be harass and intimidate . today , those independent sit on the Opposition Benches , but they be willing to sign a Labour amendment . please go back and explain to your constituent the rhetoric that be play out . why have you now join force with Labour Members by sign amendment ( c ) ? be you now say that Labour be the right party ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not . you need to go back to your constituent and explain that . I will not take any intervention . order . I draw the hon . member ' s attention to the fact that when we use the word " you " in this House , we be refer to the Chair . I apologise for not use the correct word , and with that I be out of time . thank you . I apologise to all hon . member who have not be call to speak today , but we must now start the wind - up . I call the shadow Minister . may I start by send my congratulation and those of my party to the hon . and right hon . member who have be elect today , the hon . member for Sussex Weald ( Ms Ghani ) and for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) and the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) ? I congratulate they all ; I be sure they will fulfil their role as Deputy Speakers with great integrity and honour . I turn briefly to some of the maiden speech , of which there have be the most extraordinary number . I be grateful to have sit through many of they , although perhaps not all . my hon . friend the Member for Fylde ( Mr Snowden ) bring fantastic previous service to the House , although I hope he be not bite by another dog . I must also pay tribute to his wife Caroline ' s courage and his campaign . I also cite the hon . member for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) , who be not shy of a cake . although that may not be the public service or public health message that she wish to bring , it be one that I share . I be delighted that the hon . member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) highlight the Glasshouse , which be indeed at the cultural heart of our nation . the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) give a move account of a tragic loss , and his campaign for recognise baby loss be one that will be back across the whole House . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) surprise we all by actually discuss the subject of the debate . the direct access of the hon . member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) to the Chancellor will no doubt raise huge hope in her constituency . the addiction of the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) to ice cream suggest that he should team up with the hon . member for Darlington . I suggest they might one day be friend . the hon . member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) do belong here , no matter what she say and no matter what anybody else say . the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) teach we the meaning of pier envy , which be a new one on I . the baby girl of the hon . member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) will no doubt bring enormous joy , but if my experience be anything to go by , enormous sleepless night , too . no doubt she too will be vote in the Lobby very soon . I must pay enormous tribute to the work of the hon . member for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) in healthcare . as a child I be a frequent flyer and user of the William Harvey hospital , so I be grateful that he continue to serve in that community . the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) hide a king or find one — I be not sure quite which . the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) make a passionate defence of the need for domestic energy production , and I share that view enormously . I be sorry he do not share it with the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , but perhaps he will inform he well . the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) have kind word to say about our friend Alex Chalk , who serve the House and that constituency with great integrity and decency . my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) recall the last battle on british soil and be now seek to power our country with nuclear energy . as he will know well , this country only ever build nuclear power station under a Conservative Government . the hon . member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) commit to work on disability , and that sentiment will be share by many here . the campaigning technique of the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) be undoubtedly original . the hon . member for Coatbridge and Bellshill ( Frank McNally ) can only hope to break the track record of get a second term in that seat , and even those of we on the Opposition Benches might be supportive of that . the history of piracy of the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) will no doubt worry the whip something rotten . I be sure she will fail to put they at their ease — certainly not so early in the Parliament . the fashion advice of the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) would be welcome by those of we who miss the 1960 , but he no doubt will be contribute . I thank he for his kind word to our friend Greg Hands , who serve the constituency so well . I turn to the King ' s Speech , rather than the maiden speech — the King , after all , have give one himself . sadly he do not choose his own word , and I be not sure they be the one he would have choose . it be , however , as ever a pleasure to be speak across the Dispatch Box from the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , and I wish she the very good of luck in her new role . become a Labour Immigration Minister must be a strange experience . after all , Barbara Roche , one of her predecessor , write that she be " appal " to be appoint Immigration Minister in the Blair Government . one of Barbara ' s contemporary , David Blunkett , famously say that there be " no obvious limit " to the number of migrant who could settle in the United Kingdom . I suspect we will not get such frank honesty from this Prime Minister or this Home Secretary . however , in their heart I suspect that neither of they truly believe in control legal and illegal migration . the hon . member for Wallasey have my sympathy . it can not be easy to defend a Government who have already scrap the deterrent that work , lose the commander of the border strategy unit and now all but offer an amnesty . oh dear , these day be difficult , be they not ? no doubt she have already read the advice of her frontline officer , because the National Crime Agency be extremely clear . it have be task by that Government to tackle criminal gang , but it have already say that we need an effective deterrence agreement , and since it have publicly point out that no country have ever stop people traffic upstream in foreign country without a deportation scheme , I be certain that it will not have mince its word in private . rise — the hon . Lady will get plenty of time in just a moment . despite that , the Home Secretary have promise the british people result and urge we to put faith in her plan . I have long hear and listen to the right hon . Lady , who have be a friend for many year , so let I ask the question put yesterday by my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . if , God forbid , the Home Secretary be wrong and the number rise — I know ; wonder will never happen — what will she do ? will she take responsibility and resign , or will she reach for the old Blair - Brown playbook that be the golden thread run through the King ' s Speech and instead farm out the blame , set up a new quango , pretend it be not her problem and hope that it all go away ? I be sorry to tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that have listen to the debate over the last few day , it seem that Labour ' s approach to illegal immigration be absolutely typical of how it plan to govern . this be a Government who will be overbearing when they should stand back and absent when they should stand tall . they will be too hesitant in defend our country from her enemy abroad , too control — or uncontrolling — of our border , fail to protect decent people from criminal . but they will be all too willing to creep into every corner of our personal life . this be a Government who seem determined to prioritise left - wing ideology over the interest of the british people ; I be afraid that be what Labour do . that be what be happen in education , where the Government be roll back the quiet revolution that have make our school some of the good in the western hemisphere ; in energy , where they claim that they will reduce bill by create an energy company that do not generate energy ; and in skill , where the good they can offer a generation that aspire be another bloated regulator . those be the policy of a Government who value job for bureaucrat over result and ideological purity over the wellbeing of the british people . I be afraid that the economy can not afford such ideology . we need honesty in the challenge that we face . despite the Chancellor ' s attempt to talk down the position that she have find herself in , that be indeed what she have inherit . despite the selective memory on the Government Benches , we know the fact . we have the low inflation and the fast - grow economy of any G7 country , the deficit be down , unemployment be down and the economy be grow , all despite a global pandemic and a war rage in Europe . that recovery be now at risk . labour talk about growth , but business be already groan at the propose increase in regulation that the Government be propose and be fearful of the tax rise that we be all expect from the Chancellor and that she be effectively roll the carpet for this autumn . the change in workplace regulation will not protect new employee ; they will simply put business off hire they . the trouble with Labour ' s plan be that we know that however well - mean they be , they always lead to the same outcome . while conservative see industry as the source of our prosperity , Labour just view it as something to be tax . it think that entrepreneur be not grafter but greedy , and it can not see that drive and energy bring opportunity to a whole community , not just to an individual or a company . to that , I say this . just as our security should not be take for grant , neither should our wealth or prosperity . no one owe we a living or a good life . if we punish those who create job and make it hard or more expensive to run a business , this country will get poor . it will not happen overnight ; it will creep up on we , with investment not make , business idea not take forward and entrepreneur move abroad . little by little , those good intention will lead to well - predict consequence . where we should be go for growth , Labour be design a state of stagnation . the direction that the Government have choose to take be all too clear : a state that be weak on defence , weak on protect our border and weak on maintain order , whether in school or on the street . yet , that state presume to tell we how to live our life , offer we less choice about how we educate our child , run our business , rent our home and do our job . in only a few week , the Government have already show themselves unable to commit to the step need to keep we safe , unable to secure our border and unwilling to let the british economy thrive . the Labour party talk a good game , but action speak louder than word , and its action so far have be those of a party determine to put ideology over this country ' s interest . hon . member would not think that the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) be in the government that preside over a Parliament in which living standard be low at the end than at the beginning . they would not think that this be a man who preside over a hash of a government that have eight Home Secretaries , five Prime Ministers and 10 Education secretary all within a few year . to listen to he , hon . member would think that he be still on the Government Benches , lecture we about the fantastic record that his party have deliver for this country when , actually , he have just lose an election by a landslide . it be a great pleasure to respond to this debate on the King ' s Speech . we have have a fascinating debate , of the type that we can only really have at the beginning of a Parliament , particularly a landslide Parliament where the Government have change . we have have 20 maiden speech today , which mean that we have have 68 over the past five day of the debate on the King ' s Speech . from listen to the contribution from all side of the House that we have be privileged to hear today , I know that in this Parliament the new member on the Government Benches will drive the Government forwards , and those on the Opposition Benches will hold they to account . I certainly look forward to be a part of it . I congratulate all those member who have make their maiden speech today , include the hon . member for Fylde ( Mr Snowden ) , who be the police and crime commissioner in his area . my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) explain how beautiful her constituency be and how she be try to make it even more sustainable . her commitment to equity and public health shine through . my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) , an old mate of mine , make Gateshead sound as interesting as I know it be . my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) mention Janet Anderson , one of his predecessor , who come to the House when I first arrive . his comment on the Boundary Commission be hear with empathy across the entire House . I congratulate the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who come in and do his usual . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) , who pay tribute to her predecessor Peter Gibson , who be a particularly good friend and have many friend across the House , who be all sad to lose he . she give we another gastronomic tour of her constituency . not be able to eat at all while listen to the debate , and listen to 20 maiden speech with massive amount of information about the food offering in those constituency , have be a bit of a torture for I . I congratulate the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , who also do the food thing . my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) tell we she be proud of her parent , and her insight into work class aspiration and success will have strike many a chord on the Government Benches . I also congratulate the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , who I learn be one of seven Joshes who have flood into the House of Commons after the election . he present we with a particular nightmare of actually defeat the teacher who teach he when he be 15 . that would be a nightmare for any of the teacher on the Labour Benches . just be careful who you teach at school — you never know what might happen in future . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) , who make a fitting tribute to her predecessor , the right hon . Margaret Hodge , who be a particular friend and inspiration for a lot of we . my hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) make a superb speech . we hear from the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) . my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) be particularly fast in talk about his transferrable skill as a golf professional , and transfer they over to be an MP . we look forward to claret jug arrive to ensure he can make friend of we all . the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) be particularly thoughtful about Alex Chalk , whom he defeat and who , again , be well like across the House . we also hear from the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) . my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) talk about the difference between the Scottish Parliament and this Parliament . I be sure he will continue to see difference as they emerge , but he be right that this place be indeed old and more complex . my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) make a very good maiden speech , as do my hon . friend the Member for Coatbridge and Bellshill ( Frank McNally ) . last but my no mean least , my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) have to wait over six hour to make her contribution and do not waste a word of it . they all show that the House continue to go from strength to strength . the Minister will have hear the concern across the House about the Conservatives ' two - child cap on benefit . because it exist , in the past year alone 3 , 000 woman have have to fill in a form to admit to the Department for Work and Pensions that they have be rape and have a child that be non - consensual . that be more than the number of rape conviction under the last government . can she assure we that that form and that approach have no future under this Labour Government ? I agree with my hon . friend . the work of the taskforce on child poverty be begin . all aspect of the mess the Conservatives leave we with , include that disgraceful clause , will be look at . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be very happy to give way , but could the right hon . Gentleman hurry up ? I ' m very close to the end of my speech . I thank the Minister for give way . can she perhaps clarify to the House why a taskforce be require to delete the appalling and abhorrent rape clause ? can she clarify that any Labour MP who vote for the SNP amendment tonight will not lose the Labour Whip ? I be not a Whip , so I be not go to clarify what will happen . I be do a difficult enough job as it be without try to become the entire Labour Whips Office . we have to turn the page and move on from the last period that we have all live through . the Gracious Speech be the first labour programme for government in 14 year and it be an exciting and ambitious programme . there be 40 Bills on topic range from clean energy through to economic stability and the Hillsborough law . it be a programme as ambitious for the country as the british people be , a programme that lay out a vision for a bright , well future : to establish GB Energy to bring down energy bill ; an employment right Bill to end fire and rehire , and strengthen sick pay for worker ; reform to bus franchising to deliver local transport ; regulation of water company to clean up river , lake and sea ; and critical measure to strengthen Britain ' s border security and improve police across the country , two of this Government ' s core mission . that be the change for which Britain vote on 4 July . it be a King ' s Speech to be proud of , it be a King ' s Speech to deliver , and I commend it to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Rishi Sunak Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers John Whittingdale James Wild Jeremy Wright Joy Morrissey Mike Wood Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 117 , Noes 384 . question accordingly negative . amendment propose : at the end of the question to add : " but respectfully regret that the Gracious Speech fail to include immediate measure to abolish the two - child limit to Universal Credit ; recognise that this policy be push child into poverty ; far recognise that 1 . 6 million child be currently impact and maintain this policy will result in 670 , 000 additional child suffer poverty by the end of this Parliament ; believe that eradicate child poverty must be a primary priority for the newly - elect government ; and therefore call on the Government , as a vital first step in tackle child poverty , to immediately abolish the two - child limit . " — ( Stephen Flynn . ) question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 33 ) , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Charlotte Cane Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Stephen Flynn will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard John Martin McDonnell Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Kirsty Blackman Ben Lake Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes John Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 103 , Noes 363 . question accordingly negative . amendment propose : at the end of the question to add : " but , while welcome measure aim at uphold standard in public life , which have be neglect under UK , Scottish and Welsh Governments in recent year , humbly regret that the Gracious Speech do not include sufficient measure to address the crisis in health and care , such as the introduction of a legal right to see a gp within seven day , a guarantee for cancer patient to start treatment within 62 day from urgent referral , free personal care in England , well support for carer , and a cross - party commission on social care ; and call on the Government to stop the scandal of sewage dump against which the previous Government fail to take action , include by replace Ofwat with a new regulator , to support family with the cost of living and to tackle poverty , include by introduce a national food strategy , extend free school meal to all child in poverty , and by scrap the two - child benefit cap , to ensure that rural community and farmer receive adequate support , and to reform the system for parliamentary election by replace first - past - the - post with proportional representation , so that every vote count . " — ( Christine Jardine . ) question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 33 ) , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jamie Stone Munira Wilson Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 85 , Noes 382 . question accordingly negative . main question put and agree to . resolve , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . address to be present to his Majesty by member of the House who be Privy Counsellors or member of his Majesty ' s household . business without Debate Business of the House Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 15 ) , that , at this day ' s sit , the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to Business of the House ( today ) may be proceed with , though oppose , until any hour , and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) question agree to . business of the House ( today ) order , that at today ' s sit the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to Westminster Hall not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Westminster Hall Ordered , that , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 10 , there shall be no sitting in Westminster Hall until Tuesday 3 September . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Commercial Sexual Exploitation Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) there have be huge advance in the battle for woman ' s equality in recent decade , but on some issue , we have go backwards . chief among they be commercial sexual exploitation . [ interruption . ] order . I ask that member leave the Chamber quietly , out of respect for the Adjournment debate . give someone money , accommodation , food , a job or other service on the condition that they perform sex act be sexual exploitation and abuse , yet the global trade in sexual exploitation — perpetrate primarily against woman and girl — be big than ever before . sex trafficking be the most profitable form of modern slavery in the world , while violent , misogynistic pornography be consume on an unparalleled scale , mostly by man . this be not an accident , and it be not inevitable : we could and should have do so much more to protect woman and girl . instead , the past 14 year have be a veritable golden age for pimp and pornographer . do my hon . friend agree that under the United Nations protocol on trafficking , a victim do not need to have travel in a vehicle in order for a traffic offence to have be commit , yet under the UK ' s Modern Slavery Act 2015 , they do ? this mean that exploiter who be not actually move a victim in a vehicle from one place to another be not be prosecute as trafficker . it would make a huge difference if there be parity between the two piece of legislation , to make sure that trafficking be justly prosecute . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I know that the Minister be listen and will likely agree with she , as I do . multimillion - pound pimp website have be allow to operate freely . man who drive demand for sex trafficking by pay for sex have be leave to abuse with impunity , while the most popular pornography website in the country have be free to peddle video of rape and sexual abuse . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this debate forward . she be active on this subject when she be on the Opposition Benches , and I commend she for that . to be fair , so be the Minister in her place tonight , so I be quite sure that , whatever we ask for , the Minister will respond in a very positive fashion , and I be glad about that . do the hon . Lady not agree that we must be at pain to ensure that the open border between Northern Ireland and the Republic be not use as a trafficking channel ? would she join I in ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland to meet the relevant Republic of Ireland Minister to discuss and agree how we can collectively ensure that this be not a back door to abuse and misuse ? I thank the hon . member for his contribution , because , have be a shadow Minister for Northern Ireland and from work with Women ' s aid in Northern Ireland , I know that this be a real problem . I welcome his offer to join he in meet the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the Minister to discuss this far , and I thank he very much for his intervention . the previous Government stand by and let this happen , which be a shocking abdication of duty . woman and girl deserve so much well from the Government . I be look forward to see this new Government step up and protect woman and girl from commercial sexual exploitation , and in this debate I will set out how . first of all , let we be clear : prostitution be violence against woman . man who pay for sex be not regular consumer harmlessly avail " worker " of their service . healthy , non - abusive sexual relationship require both party to mutually and freely want to have sex . offer somebody money , or food or a place to stay , in return for their perform sex act be sexual coercion . it be simply not possible to commodify sexual consent . as the United Nations special rapporteur on violence against woman and girl have state , " prostitution be intrinsically link to different form of violence against woman and girl and constitute a form of violence in and of itself . " Most woman exploit in prostitution be highly vulnerable before even enter the sex trade , and suffer severe consequence as a result . a Home Office report note that approximately 50 % of woman in prostitution in the United Kingdom start be pay for sex act before they be 18 year old , while up to 95 % of woman in street prostitution be believe to be problematic drug user . I and my hon . friend the Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) have meet these woman and see the struggle that they have in Swansea city centre , and I know that they be there to fuel their drug use . they be pimp out , and it be heartbreaking . this be how I use my politic : when I think about the most vulnerable people in society , I think about the woman who be cry because they have have their child take away from they permanently . they be not able to make end meet , and they have to be take out by their pimp to earn in order to feed themselves and to live their life in a basic way . I really do believe that we should always think about those woman when we talk about woman in this House . I want to read the word of Crystal , a survivor who have speak out about her experience of prostitution . she say : " I become involved in prostitution in my early twenty , courtesy of my then ' boyfriend ' ; I now use the word pimp . my body always hurt from the constant rough sex . I ' d get jaw ache from blow - job after blow - job . Group stuff be especially harrowing … I develop Post Traumatic Stress Disorder . I get flashback and nightmare , when I could sleep . the addiction and the prostitution go together — I sell myself to fund my habit , and I couldn ' t do it sober . it be a vicious cycle . " too often in discussion about prostitution and sex trafficking , there be silence when it come to the people who perpetrate this kind of abuse : man who pay for sex . so it be only right that I also read their word today . here be what one man write in a forum for sex buyer about a woman he pay £ 100 to perform sex act on he : " this be a classic case of ' the pretty one don ' t have to work hard ' . . . she ' s Polish , and her English be not good . . . I be remind of the Smiths ' song ' girlfriend in a Coma ' . . . all the while she seem completely disinterested and mechanical . . . I finally decide to fuck she , in mish . . . all the while , she keep her face turn to one side . " I apologise for the language , Madam Deputy Speaker . as one of her first act in government , I urge the Minister to recognise the violence that woman such as Crystal endure and the harmful action of sex buyer by add prostitution to the Government ' s tackle violence against woman and girl strategy , just as the Scottish Government have do . so what do we know about sex buyer ? we know that 3 . 6 % of man in the UK report have pay for sex in the previous five year , and we know that the level of demand for prostitution vary over time and place . that be because man who pay to sexually exploit woman be not helplessly react to uncontrollable sexual urge ; they be make a choice , and that choice be influence by a range of factor , include the risk of criminal sanction . importantly , we also know that the harm perpetrate when a man pay for sex be not restrict to the individual woman he exploit . as the Home Affairs Committee conclude last year , sex buyer " fuel demand for trafficking " . the cohort of man who create demand for the prostitution trade be the same cohort that create the demand drive the trafficking of woman into that trade . so we have a group of man perpetrate a type of violence against woman that financially incentivise further violence against woman . that should prompt a robust legal response from Government that hold sex buyer accountable for the severity of their action . but that be not the legal response we have . in England and Wales there be a loose patchwork of law relate to prostitution , with no consistent objective underpin they . third - party facilitation of prostitution be illegal in some circumstance yet permit in other . victim of sexual exploitation face criminal sanction for solicit in a public place , while individual who pay for sex face criminal sanction only if they kerb - crawl or pay for sex with an individual " subject to force " . even then , the law be very rarely enforce . the consequence of this legal fudge be all around we , hide in plain sight . across the country , vulnerable woman be be advertise online and move around network of so - call pop - up brothel . organised crime group dominate this ruthless trade , exploit predominantly non UK - national woman . let I give a snapshot of what be happen . over a 12 - month period , Leicestershire police visit 156 brothel , encounter 421 woman , of whom 86 % be romanian . in Bristol , the Police Foundation identify 65 brothel over a two - year period . over three quarter of the brothel display link to organise crime group , and 83 % of the woman in they be non - british national . in city after city , woman be be traffic and exploit , and for one overriding reason : there be man willing and able to pay to abuse they . this have to stop . it be just unbearable . Mia de Faoite , a survivor of prostitution who now train the police on how to combat commercial sexual exploitation , point to how we should do this . she say : " prostitution be what most people imagine it to be : violent and dangerous . in the six year that I be involve , I endure a gang rape and three separate rape … the only country in Europe who be make a substantial impact in the fight against modern day slavery be the one who have acknowledge and face the cause : the demand . " Mia be right , and I urge the Minister to listen to she . a grow number of country and state be wake up to the fact that without demand from sex buyer , there would be no supply of woman into prostitution and sex trafficking . by criminalise pay for sex and decriminalise victim of sexual exploitation , the Governments of Ireland , France , Sweden , Norway and Canada have shift the burden of criminality off victim and on to perpetrator . England and Wales must be the next country add to that list . Sweden be the first nation to adopt demand reduction legislation in 1999 , afford we more than two decade of evidence . the result be stark : demand have drop , public attitude have transform and trafficker be be deter . the most recent research find that 7 . 5 % of man in Sweden have pay for sex . just 0 . 8 % of they have pay for sex in the previous 12 month — the small proportion record in two decade and the low level in Europe . I have see at first hand how agency collaborate to implement Sweden ' s sex purchase Act , have meet police and support worker there task with hold sex buyer accountable and assist victim . Co - ordinate multi - agency working , back up by strong political leadership , have be key to translate the legislation into real change on the ground . those who want to preserve the right of man to pay for sex have claim that outlaw this abusive practice would simply drive the prostitution trade underground , make it hard to identify victim . however , as a study commission by the European Commission conclude , there be a logical fallacy at the heart of that argument . sex buying be largely opportunistic and rely on advertising . sex buyer have get to be able to find woman to sexually exploit , and the police can look at exactly the same advert that they do . if sex buyer can find woman be exploit , so can the police . solely go after sex buyer be not sufficient to stop sex trafficking , however . we also have to crack down on the pimp website that enable and profit from this abhorrent trade . pimp website be commercial online platform dedicate solely or partly to advertising woman for prostitution . they function like mass online brothel , make it as easy to order a woman to exploit as it be to order a takeaway . despite it be illegal to place a prostitution advert in a phone box , the same advert can be legally publish for profit on a website . our law have not keep pace with technological change , and pimp have get rich as a result . as the Scottish Parliament ' s cross - party group on commercial sexual exploitation find in its inquiry into pimp website , a small number of highly lucrative website dominate the market , centralise and concentrate demand online . the site make it simple and fast for trafficker to advertise their victim and connect with their so - call customer base in town and city across the UK . shamefully , the previous Government not only fail to stop pimp website from operate , but collaborate with they . since 2018 , Home Office official have meet 20 time with Vivastreet , one of the big website advertising prostitution . what have be the result of that collaboration with mass prostitution ring ? the Home Affairs Committee ' s conclusion be : " the threat pose by website advertising prostitution , the continue failure of their owner to implement even the most basic safeguard against pimping and trafficking , and the sheer scale of trafficking for sexual exploitation they facilitate , be at total odd with the National Crime Agency and Home Office ' s decision to collaborate with they . we find this public partnership work inexplicable , particularly give the total absence of evidence that it have lead to a reduction in the scale of trafficking facilitate by these website — and the flagrant facilitation of trafficking enable by , for instance , single individual be allow to advertise multiple woman for prostitution . " the Home Affairs Committee , the all - party parliamentary group on commercial sexual exploitation and the Scottish Parliament ' s cross - party group on commercial sexual exploitation have be unite in their conclusion that in order to bust the business model of sex trafficking we have to drag our anti - pimp law into the 21st century by make it a criminal offence to enable or profit from the prostitution of another person , whether that take place online or offline . hand in hand with that anti - pimp law , we need a cross - government strategy to help survivor exit sexual exploitation and rebuild their life . that be because in order to stop sexual exploitation , we have to end impunity for pimp and punter , and provide support — not sanction — for victim . I turn to pornography and the action that we need to finally start tackle the rampant commercial sexual exploitation on pornography website , as well as their wide harm . a groundbreake inquiry into the pornography trade by the all - party parliamentary group on commercial sexual exploitation conclude that we can not simply end the epidemic of male violence against woman and girl without confront the role that pornography play in fuel sexual objectification and sexual violence . the fact that Government have hitherto fail to tackle even the most egregious abuse perpetrate by this predatory industry be not because that have prove too difficult , but because there have not be sufficient political will . that have to change now . the finding of the group ' s inquiry be extensive and unequivocal . I urge the Minister to study they carefully . I will highlight just a few . first , pornography consumption fuel sexual violence . there be extensive evidence from experimental , non - experimental , longitudinal and cross - sectional study of that . research indicate that pornography influence viewer ' so - call sexual script , shape their understanding , expectation and decision in relation to sexual behaviour . Pornography also serve to dehumanise and sexually objectify woman , foster attitude that underpin violence against woman and girl . secondly , illegal content be freely accessible on mainstream pornography website . lawlessness characterise the online pornography trade , with film feature child sexual abuse , rape and traffic victim find on some of the UK ' s most heavily visit site . thirdly , the inquiry conclude that sexual coercion be inherent in the commercial production of pornography . I will quote the word of Alia Dewees , a survivor of pornography and traffic who now work to support other survivor . Alia be just 20 when she be first pay to perform in pornography . give evidence to the all - party group , she recall , " when I do not want to consent , when I be feel uncomfortable , unsafe , or unwilling , I do not have the freedom to leave that shoot without repercussion . I didn ' t have the freedom to leave and know that I wasn ' t go to be sue for breach of contract . " Alia experience that immense pressure to participate in film sex act because on a previous date she have sign a legal contract to do so . that be commercial sexual exploitation . like too many other woman , she be subject to a horrifying level of sexual abuse in this so - call industry . she bravely speak out . there be simple , practical step that Ministers can take now to rein in the lawless activity of pornography site and implement basic safeguard . such measure should include make the regulation of pornography consistent across the online and offline sphere , as recommend by the British Board of Film Classification , and require online platform access from the UK to verify that every individual feature in pornographic content on their site be an adult and give permission for the content to be publish there . safeguard must include give individual who feature in pornographic material access from the UK the legal right to withdraw their consent to material in which they feature be publish or distribute far . we have the power to make that burden a little light by give individual who feature on pornography website the legal right to have that content take down . I would like to pay tribute to the Ministers on the Front Bench . Labour vote in support of the amendment table by the now Minister of State at the Home Department , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , but it be block by the Conservative Government . now that labour be in power , I hope that we will see vital safeguard in a Government Bill soon . in opposition , Labour could only use word in the fight against commercial sexual exploitation . now we can use deed . this government must shift power out of the hand of punter , pimp and pornographer , and place it into the hand of woman and girl . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) for secure this debate , which , as she point out , be my first as a Home Office Minister — although definitely not my first on this subject , by any stretch of the imagination . from the outset , let I say that it be a privilege to have be ask by the Prime Minister to serve , and to work on some of the issue to which I have devote much of my life both inside and outside this building . we have an enormous task on our hand . debate such as this underline why it be so critical that we make real progress in protect woman — and in this instance , man as well , and all people — from harm . we know that sexual exploitation disproportionately affect woman and girl . as I say , it affect man as well , although those who be buy sex tend always to come from the same group . it be time that we treat tackle violence against woman and girl as the national emergency that it be . New Government policy will be announce in due course , but I want to restate that I believe passionately that change in this area be need and , until it be achieve , we must not rest . on hearing account such as those we have hear tonight from my hon . friend , I be not sure how we could come to any other conclusion . I will continue to work closely with charity and non - governmental organisation — I have meet almost all those mention by my hon . friend — to support service in advance their effort to protect survivor and hold perpetrator to account . turn to the specific point of the debate , this Government will use every lever available to stop commercial sexual exploitation , and all kind of sexual exploitation . we be committed to tackle the harm that it bring . the most vulnerable in our society deserve nothing less . when look at commercial sexual exploitation , it be undeniable that we have to consider carefully those who be exploit under the guise of completely legitimate prostitution . that be often the argument that come back , but not one that we should recognise . we be only a couple of week into the new Government , so I hope that Members will understand that I be not in a position today to make commitment on specific policy . however , I want to make it clear to my hon . friend and all member that they will be come , and she have my word that I expect change in this space . currently , the act of buy and sell sex be not in themselves illegal in England and Wales . however , some activity that can be associate with prostitution be offence , include activity link to exploitation , which she talk about . the Sexual Offences Act 2003 make it illegal to pay for the sexual service of a prostitute subject to force , threat or any other form of coercion or deception . this be a strict liability offence , mean that it be not a valid defence that the defendant do not know that the person be be exploit or have be subject to force or coercion . as my hon . Friend point out , I have very grave concern about how well this work in practice — I be happy to say from here that it do not . like so many conviction that we seek for crime of violence against woman and girl , the number be woeful . we want to understand the scale of the issue and how good to respond to it . the Home Office be currently provide £ 1 . 36 million of funding to change life — I declare that I be the chair of the change live adult sexual exploitation partnership , though I be no long — to address the current gap in evidence of the level and type of online abuse and exploitation , to help we well understand the pathway that be need to improve support . this be important work and I thank the amazing change life for undertake it . we be also provide £ 378 , 000 of fund over two year to Trevi Women , which provide trauma - inform support to woman survivor wish to exit on - street prostitution . we be aware of the different legislative approach to prostitution , such as those implement in Northern Ireland and different part of Europe . there be a wide range of potential legislative approach . further work be need to understand the option we will have as a Government . I will work with the NGOs and charity to explore those option , ensure that the protection of woman and girl from exploitation be at the forefront of our approach . the trafficking of woman and girl for sexual exploitation be a horrific crime , and we be determined to safeguard victim and to bring ruthless perpetrator of this crime to justice . that mean ensure that the police relentlessly pursue perpetrator who pose the great risk to woman and girl , use all the tool at our disposal to protect victim and get dangerous perpetrator off our street . as I be sure hon . member be aware , sexual exploitation be a significant part of the traffic space in this country . we will build on the Online Safety Act 2023 to ensure that online company fulfil their duty to eradicate this exploitation from their site . there be much work to do in this particular space , as have be highlight by my hon . friend . I have have many case where this have not be handle well at all . indeed , there be image of I on pornographic website that I can not get take down . we will use every lever to halve violence against woman and girl in the next decade in the Home Office and across the whole of Government , with policing and other expert . the demand for commercial sexual service fuel the exploitation of woman who be force or coerce into prostitution . the use of commercial sexual service should not be normalise . we will look across Government to use all the lever available to change attitude in the long term , reduce demand for commercial sexual service and protect woman from exploitation . we hope to see huge advance on the issue of sex for rent . I tip my hat to the now Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my right hon . friend the Member for Hove and Portslade ( Peter Kyle ) — House adjourn without question put ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 7 ) ) .