Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — Parkinson ' s : Patient Care in Newcastle - under - Lyme what step he have take to improve access to patient care for people with Parkinson ' s disease in Newcastle - under - Lyme constituency . I welcome the Minister to her place . I thank my hon . friend for his continued support for people with Parkinson ' s disease , a condition that I know be close to his family . this Government inherit long wait for neurology service , with only 53 . 4 % of patient , include those with Parkinson ' s , wait less than 18 week for a referral in June . our elective reform plan will free up over 1 million appointment each year for those who really need they , include patient with Parkinson ' s , and NHS England ' s get it right First Time programme continue to work with 27 specialise centre in England , include at University Hospitals of North Midlands . I thank the Minister for her answer and congratulate she on her appointment . will she join I in pay tribute to my constituent Julie Hibbs , from Bradwell in Newcastle - under - Lyme , who have long campaign for support for people with Parkinson ' s , like she ? will the Minister meet I and Julie to discuss the merit of add Parkinson ' s to the medical exemption list , and to discuss how we ensure that those with Parkinson ' s get the support they need and deserve ? I be happy to meet my hon . friend and his constituent to discuss all of those matter of concern — I look forward to do so as soon as my diary will allow . the eye be not only the window to the soul , but a window to our health . last week I have the pleasure of meet the team at Moorfields eye hospital who , alongside a team at University College London , have do some work on a simple retinal scan that can detect Parkinson ' s disease seven year prior to any symptom . do the Minister agree that optometry , eye care and eye health should be at the forefront of NHS England ' s plan for integrated care , and that we should bring forward a national eye health strategy ? yes , I would be more than happy to support that . that be part and parcel of this Government ' s aim to shift the NHS from hospital to community . Mental Health Services what step his Department be take to improve access to mental health service . after 14 year of Tory neglect and incompetence , we inherit a broken nhs , and nowhere be that more apparent than in our mental health service . too many people be wait too long to access the care they need . to fix that , we will recruit 8 , 500 more mental health worker ; provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school , as the hon . Member have call for ; roll out Young Futures hub in community ; and modernise the Mental Health Act 1983 . with the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill be amend to include a panel that will involve psychiatrist who will determine whether a request for assist dying should be grant , as well as a number of cross - party amendment rightly call for the involvement of mental health professional early in the process , what assessment have Ministers make of whether there be sufficient capacity in mental health service , which the Minister have just note be overstretch , to meet those demand , and on the potential knock - on impact on both wait time and treatment for those with mental health condition ? the hon . Lady will know that the Government ' s position on the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill be one of neutrality . I be on the Bill Committee simply to speak about the Government ' s position on the workability and operationalisation of the Bill . we look forward to see the amendment that will be bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . any comment we make or position we take will be base on the operationalisation of that amendment , should it become part of the Bill and , ultimately , should the Bill gain Royal Assent . thurrock community hospital do fantastic work on integrated care , particularly on integrate mental health care . on a visit , representative say that what make the hospital successful be a commitment to work across integrate care board , the local authority and other relevant partner in the community , as well as a commitment to meet people where they be , find out what be important for they and work from there . do the Minister see that model as integral to the reform of mental health care in this country ? will he join I on a visit to Thurrock community hospital to see what it do and what can be learn from how that work be undertake ? my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner on this issue in her constituency . she be right that the integration of service be crucial to ensure that we get the good possible outcome for people who be struggle with their mental health . I would be very happy to discuss with she the possibility of I visit her constituency . be the Minister aware of the brilliant work do by Mersey Care NHS foundation trust in reduce in - patient mental health suicide to zero , which be an extraordinary achievement . under a former Health Secretary , who may be stand not a million mile away from where I be stand now , that become an objective for all mental health in - patient unit across the NHS . will the Minister look into whether that objective still stand ? if not , can it be reinstate ? I be not familiar with the detail of the case that the right hon . gentleman mention , but it sound like a positive and interesting development , and I would be happy to consider it far . the Government be commit to deliver the cross - sector suicide prevention strategy for England , publish in 2023 . the 8 , 500 new mental health worker who we will recruit will be specially train to support people at risk . I be regularly contact by constituent who be concerned that their child be not receive the mental health care they need . have meet GPs in Winsford , I know that there be clear concern that access to child and adolescent mental health service be be ration to the point that it have become almost inaccessible to all but the most severe case . will my hon . friend tell I what progress have be make towards our commitment to provide specialist mental health professional in school , ensure that there be early intervention that prevent issue from escalate ? after the disastrous 14 year that we have have , we be face a very serious situation in term of mental health provision . it will take some time to get the workforce in place , but we have a clear commitment to have a specialist in every school . the appointment and training of those specialist will take some time . we be also roll out open - access Young Futures hub in every community . I be confident that the combination of those two intervention will get we back to have mental health service that this country can be truly proud of . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . I welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , to her place . I look forward to work with she , as I do with other Ministers . as the Minister for Care will know , 20 % of the burden on the NHS be due to mental health , yet only 10 % of the budget be allocate towards it . the mental health investment standard have be a welcome maintenance under this government . however , the Select Committee hear from Amanda Pritchard the other day that the standard be guarantee for only the next two year . do the Minister agree that the standard have have a positive effect on mental health community service , and would he commit to protect it ? the Chair of the Committee will have see that we have make an explicit commitment to the mental health investment standard — we be absolutely committed to that . in addition , we have to drive reform in the system so that it be about not just the amount of investment go in , but how we ensure that it be work properly . I be absolutely confident that the commitment to 8 , 500 new specialist , the Young Futures hub and have a mental health specialist in every school will facilitate the delivery of service in a far more effective way than be currently the case . I thank the Minister for his continue commitment to support mental health in this country . do he also recognise that mental health involve support NHS frontline staff ? I have the wonderful opportunity of spend time with the East of England ambulance service on Saturday morning . they work incredibly long hour and work incredibly hard . obviously , we need to think about their mental health as well . we in this Chamber should , whenever possible , pay tribute to the people provide those frontline service , who every day work heroically in very difficult circumstance . my hon . friend be absolutely right about the pressure on the workforce — we be very conscious of that . we will bring forward a workforce plan in the summer , and we be work at pace to recruit the 8 , 500 mental health worker . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . last week , the Secretary of State issue a new mandate for the NHS in which a number of mental health target be drop . I accept that target that drive perverse behaviour should be drop and that some sharpen focus be necessary , but mental health waiting list be at a record high , huge number of people be not at work because of poor mental health , and our young people be be let down badly by CAMHS , not least in my constituency of North Shropshire . do the Secretary of State accept that mental health target should be reinstate and that mental health should be treat with equal priority to physical health ? what we know about target be that if we try to overload a system with too many target , it cause confusion and end up with , as the hon . Lady rightly say , perverse outcome . we be clear that we do not want to have a system base on just make policy by press release , as be the case under the previous Government , put out press announcement about load more target . it all make for nice front - page headline , but it do not lead to any serious delivery of the strategy that we need to deliver . I be with she on the point about focus . we be absolutely committed to mental health , as be set out in the planning guidance . it be also one of the priority in the planning guidance , and we will continue to deliver on that priority . Global Health and Immunisation what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs on the UK ' s leadership on global health and immunisation . UK leadership on global health be critical to safeguard our national and international health security , build resilience and create prosperity . I work closely with my counterpart across Government . I recently meet the Foreign Secretary to discuss these issue , which be also high on the agenda of the Minister for Development . the UK have one of the large vaccination programme in the world , and our confidence and uptake rate be among the high globally . the NHS and the UK reap the benefit of our work in global health . Gavi be one of the UK ' s great success story : it have inoculate 1 billion child worldwide , but it have also strengthen our health security , keep we safe from disease such as Mpox and Ebola . what leadership will the Secretary of State and his Department take to strengthen organisation such as Gavi to keep we safe here in the UK ? the hon . member raise an important point . I know that my ministerial colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be look at the investment case for Gavi and the Global Fund as part of the spending review . I will ensure that her representation be relay to the fcdo , and she be very welcome to make those point during oral question to that Department . I call the shadow Minister . there be almost 67 , 000 case of serious antimicrobial - resistant infection in the United Kingdom in 2023 . War be increase such infection globally ; 80 % of patient in one kyiv hospital in Ukraine be say to have such infection . the Conservative Government have a plan to tackle that . do the Labour Government plan to follow that plan , be they on track to meet those target , and if not , what will the Secretary of State do about it ? I be delighted that Dame Sally Davies continue her work on antimicrobial resistance . that be an absolutely critical issue , and I pay tribute to the previous Government , particularly Minister Quince , for their work on it . it be in the national interest that we maintain not just the national focus but the international focus on antimicrobial resistance , which be why UK leadership in those global fora be so important . another time when it be important to work together be during a pandemic , such as by share research . unfortunately , recent history tell we that when labour negotiate , Britain lose out . can the Secretary of State confirm that , whatever emerge from discussion with the World Health Organisation , he will not reduce the UK ' s capacity to take decision in the interest of the british people . may I just say how regrettable it be that a sensible shadow Minister be send along to parrot the absurd line of her leader ? Hinchingbrooke Hospital if he will take step to repair Hinchingbrooke hospital before building contain reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete reach the end of their lifespan in 2030 . as I be sure the hon . member know , Hinchingbrooke hospital be in wave 1 of the new hospital programme , and his constituent can now look forward to a new hospital under this Labour Government . the hospital have receive over £ 44 million to deliver RAAC mitigation safety work , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have commission a site - by - site survey of RAAC hospital , which will ensure that individual development plan address the high - risk element as soon as possible . last July , Deborah Lee , the senior responsible officer for the Hinchingbrooke hospital redevelopment programme , state that the deadline for the new hospital be 2030 . in a write answer to I last year , the Minister confirm that , even after the mitigation measure of failsafe steelwork , the lifespan of the remain RAAC building would run only until approximately 2030 . can the Secretary of State confirm that the rebuild , and all wave of the new hospital programme , will not be delay by the review of build safety regulation guidance announce by the Deputy Prime Minister in December ? will he assure my constituent that the RAAC building at Hinchingbrooke will be safe to use beyond 2030 , and if so , will he publish the risk assessment that he have conduct to confirm that ? the hon . Gentleman have outline the shocking state of some hospital . I confirm again that we want a site - by - site report of those hospital for exactly that purpose : to ensure that they be safe and to understand any critical issue before the scheme go forward . we expect that report in the summer . give that the Tory predecessor of the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) fail to mention RAAC once , and mention Hinchingbrooke hospital only five time in 23 year , do the Minister agree that people in Huntingdon and across the country need a Labour Government commit to rebuild the NHS , not a Tory Government who pay lip service but fail to back it up ? I commend my hon . friend on his research into the previous Government , and for the hard work that he be do on behalf of his constituent . we be committed to the rebuild of Hinchingbrooke and have put the new hospital programme on a sustainable footing , which be something that his constituent can look forward to . Elective Care Waiting Times what progress his Department be make in reduce waiting time for elective care . this Government inherit a waiting list with a staggering 7 . 6 million people on it . since July , that waiting list have already be reduce by almost 145 , 000 , and ensure that the NHS once again meet the 18 - week standard for elective treatment be at the heart of the Government ' s plan for change . our elective reform plan set out how we will meet that standard by the end of this Parliament , through a combination of investment and reform that Labour know from past experience deliver result . I get regular message from constituent face terrible wait for care with potentially serious consequence , include a one - year delay for an early dementia referral and an 18 - month delay for a cardiology review . although I understand the case for the short - term , one - off use of spare private capacity to tackle the backlog while the NHS be rebuild , can the Secretary of State please outline his long - term thinking regard privatisation of the national health service ? in particular , why be he encourage the development of long - term relationship with the private sector ? the NHS have always work constructively with the independent sector , and I do not believe that ideological hobby horse should come before patient get fast access to care . this government be invest in our NHS , and before the hon . Lady complain about that , I would just point out that the Green party ' s manifesto on the NHS say that it would require an " additional annual expenditure of £ 8bn in the first full year " of this Parliament , rise to £ 28 billion later . the Chancellor have just deliver a budget that deliver £ 26 billion of additional investment , and the Greens complain about it . I welcome the new Minister , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , to her place . hundred of my constituent be on waiting list for knee and hip operation , and while the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) say that she would like to see those waiting list reduce , the Green party have do everything it can to oppose labour ' s plan for change — it oppose our Budget , with its record investment in the NHS , and it oppose our agreement with the independent sector to bring down the backlog . do the Secretary of State agree that it be time for the Opposition party to stop wish for a reduction in waiting list and start back labour ' s credible plan to make a real difference ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . as we know from the Greens ' experience in local government , they can not clear the bin , let alone the waiting list . I call the shadow Minister . the Labour Government ' s elective reform plan say that there be plan for 10 straight - to - test pathway . can the Secretary of State name they , or give one example ? it be absolutely ridiculous , Mr Speaker . conservative Members turn up , criticise and carp about this Government ' s elective reform plan , but I remind the hon . Gentleman that when his party be in office , it deliver the long waiting list in the history of the NHS . if he want to do a pop quiz , he can use Google . this be the Secretary of State ' s own plan . there be one example in the plan , but as an article in the BMJ on 17 January helpfully point out , that one example — which feature Sarah , who have sinus pain and hearing issue — be quietly remove from all online and future draft after " a flurry of GPs point out that her treatment " be " wholly inappropriate . " that article go on to say that " Sarah can pick up her dose of unnecessary radiation along with her weekly shop . " on this part of the Government ' s plan , the BMJ conclude : " Sarah ' s story be one of over - investigation , fragmented and inappropriate care , spurious choice , and a lack of senior decision making at first presentation . activity for activity ' s sake have little to do with high quality care . " do the Secretary of State agree with the BMJ , and if not , why not ? I always believe in hold our hand up when mistake be make . I be happy to say that the reason that case study be remove from the publish elective reform plan be because it be a genuine mistake , for which I accept responsibility as the Secretary of State . now , maybe the conservative party might like to accept responsibility for the high waiting list and low patient satisfaction in history , and finally have the decency to apologise to the country for the mess it leave we in . hospice what step his Department be take to support hospice . what step his Department be take to support hospice . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of long - term funding for hospice . hospice provide vital care and support for patient and their family at the most difficult time . I be very proud that this Government have provide a £ 100 million capital funding boost for adult and child ' s hospice over this year and next . we be currently finalise the delivery mechanism for this funding , and we be pleased that Hospice UK be stand ready to distribute the money to local hospice across England . we be also provide £ 26 million of revenue funding for child ' s hospice in England in 2025 - 26 . while I wholeheartedly welcome the £ 100 million capital funding boost for hospice announce before Christmas , 17 member of staff at Nottinghamshire hospice , which be a large community - base hospice serve my constituency that provide care for family member in their own home , have recently be tell they be at risk of redundancy . can the Minister please expand on how the Government will support organisation such as this to continue to deliver excellent care in the community ? I thank my hon . friend for this important question , and I commend the work of hospice such as nottinghamshire hospice in his constituency , which I know do a wonderful job for people in his area . the investment I refer to in my early answer will help hospice such as nottinghamshire hospice to provide quality end - of - life care to patient and their family this year and next . it can be use to improve it system , make it easy for GPs and hospital to share vital datum on patient , and help to develop and improve outreach service to support people in their own home , when need . North London Hospice in my constituency have a site in Winchmore Hill that receive one third of its funding from the NHS , with the rest come from the generosity of the public . many of its service , such as out - patient and wellbeing , be fund entirely by donation . while it welcome the announcement of the £ 100 million in funding , what assurance can the Government provide about long - term hospice funding , give the significant delay in access funding from integrated care board this year ? hospice be anxious to seek clarity about the allocation and distribution of this funding . I thank my hon . friend for that question . on her point about long - term funding , last week I chair a roundtable with key stakeholder from the sector , and we be absolutely focused on develop a plan to secure the long - term sustainability of the sector . we can not go back to the cliff edge that we have have over the last few month , primarily due to the utterly chaotic and shambolic way in which the conservative party manage our system in the past . I have have the privilege of witness at first hand the exceptional work of my local hospice , forget I not child ' s hospice and the Kirkwood . however , as my hon . friend the Members for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) and for Edmonton and Winchmore Hill ( Kate Osamor ) have state , they be also struggle with long - term funding pressure and have have to make the difficult decision to reduce service and staff . what further work be the Government do to ensure that hospice thrive , and to ensure that end - of - life care be include in the 10 - year NHS plan ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . one of the three shift that the 10 - year plan will deliver be shift more healthcare out of hospital and into the community . in the context of the plan , we be have discussion about the long - term sustainability of the palliative and end - of - life care sector , include hospice . as we develop the plan , we will be carefully consider policy in this area , with input from the public , patient , health staff and our stakeholder . as I mention in response to my hon . friend the Member for Edmonton and Winchmore Hill ( Kate Osamor ) , last week I be pleased to chair a roundtable to discuss long - term strategy for hospice to get palliative and end - of - life care , include hospice , on to a more sustainable footing after 14 year of Tory neglect and incompetence . leicestershire be home to some superb hospice , such as rainbow and LOROS , both of which be set to be massively impact by the hike in national insurance contribution . give the important work that these hospice do , particularly for people at the end of their life , will the Minister urge the Chancellor to reverse this pernicious tax rise ? I be once again strike by the fact that Conservative Members seem to welcome the additional investment that the Chancellor have put into our health and care service , but do not seem to have any plan or proposal at all about how the revenue should be generate for that funding . until we get an answer to that question , we will struggle to get much far in this House , although I note that Toby Porter , the chief executive of Hospice UK , have say that the " funding will allow hospice to continue to reach hundred of thousand of people every year with high - quality , compassionate care . we look forward to work with the government to make sure everyone approach the end of life get the care and support they need " . first , may I pay tribute to those who work in hospice ? I think we can all agree that they do an astonishing job . the Minister will agree that the national insurance hike have have an impact on those who work in hospice . can he assure I that when it come to the Scottish Government ' s funding — I acknowledge the 14 year of Tory misrule and the funding settlement that be hand down — any Barnett consequential will be pass on in full to the devolved administration ? we have see the big settlement in many year for our health and care system across the country . it be now up to the SNP Government in Edinburgh to absorb and deliver that funding in a way that will actually improve service in Scotland — something that we have not see for a very long time under the misrule of the Scottish National party . the magnificent work do by those who work in hospice , include the four in Northern Ireland , need to be reflect in the funding formula . will the Minister undertake to discuss with ministerial colleague the need for the Treasury to review that funding formula , particularly in relation to devolve settlement ? from the roundtable discussion , and from subsequent discussion we have be have with the sector , it be clear that we need to look at the long - term funding issue . we face a cliff edge towards the end of last year . that be not the right way to do thing . we must start get the funding discussion move so that , well in advance of the end of this financial year , the funding situation for the palliative and hospice sector be much clear . reduce Healthcare Inequalities what step he be take to reduce inequality in healthcare . Lord Darzi ' s report lay bare the shocking health inequality in our country . it be completely unacceptable that in Britain in 2025 , maternal mortality rate for black woman be more than double those of white woman and life expectancy at birth for female in Blackpool be eight year less than in Kensington and Chelsea . reduce inequality in elective care be identify as a key priority in the planning guidance and mandate that the NHS publish last month , and further measure to address these inequality in our country will be at the heart of our 10 - year health plan , which will be publish in the spring . in 2013 , the then coalition Government reduce the health inequality weight in the NHS formula , with the result that less money go to deprive area . that be despite evidence that between 2001 and 2011 , every £ 10 million invest in such area result in four few man and two few woman die early . can my hon . friend reassure Government Members that that health inequality weighting will be reinstate so that we can ensure that deprived area get the funding they need and that life be save ? the Government mandate to NHS England be publish on 30 January and make the importance of tackle health inequality clear . NHS England have an exist programme that target the most deprive 20 % of the population , with the aim of reduce health inequality . I can reassure my hon . friend , who have be a determined campaigner on inequality , that the health inequality weighting have not be withdraw . the funding in question , which amount to £ 200 million , have be incorporate into the main integrate care board allocation . the weighting of that health inequality adjustment have be increase from 10 % to 10 . 2 % , so that the icb still benefit from that extra investment , with funding redistribute to area with the poor health outcome , base on measure of avoidable mortality provide by the Office for National Statistics . I welcome the hon . Lady to her position . she may be unaware of the number of debate that I have lead into woman ' s health and endometriosis and pelvic mesh , and there be an inequality in the health service with how woman be treat . many woman be deeply concerned by the announcement and statement about how the concentration on woman ' s health have be reduce . will the Minister speak to the president of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists ? follow that meeting , will she speak to the Secretary of State , who rightly say that he recognise when mistake have be make , about reconsider the approach to woman ' s health take in the statement the other week ? the Darzi review highlight that there be too many target set for the NHS , which make it hard for local system to prioritise action . there have be no reduction in woman ' s health service . the Government be commit to prioritise woman ' s health as we build an nhs that be fit for the future , and woman ' s equality will be at the heart of our mission . woman ' s health hub , which provide integrate woman ' s health service in the community , have a key role in tackle the inequality face by woman . the Department have invest £ 25 million over 2023 - 24 and 2024 - 25 to support the establishment of at least one pilot woman ' s health hub in every integrate care system . Antenatal Care : Vasa Praevia Screening whether he have have discussion with NHS England on include vasa praevia screening as part of antenatal care . I thank my hon . friend for his ongoing work in raise awareness in maternity service . we be committed to improve maternity care for woman and baby . evidence do not currently support screening for vasa praevia in the UK , but we have ask the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists to review the guidance around this issue . my constituent Cate Maddison suffer with severe vasa praevia in childbirth . this condition cause severe bleeding and can often result in the death of infant in childbirth and complication for the mother . however , the risk be significantly reduce when identify during pregnancy . thankfully , Cate ' s child survive , but she be campaign to reduce unnecessary complication and death arise from the condition . will the Minister meet I and Cate to discuss how we can tackle this important issue ? I be incredibly sorry to hear about Cate ' s experience . we want to ensure that woman receive safe , personalised and compassionate maternity care and that woman with the condition be support . that be why we have ask the college to look at the guidance . I will of course be happy to meet my hon . friend and his constituent . there be clearly a need to consider vasa praevia as part of antenatal care . the hon . member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) set the scene very well and the Minister respond in a good fashion . this issue , which the hon . Member be right to highlight , be also an issue in Northern Ireland . will the Minister share what be go forward here with representative at the Northern Ireland Assembly ? I thank the hon . member for that point . as he know , I be always keen to ensure we share good practice across the United Kingdom so that his constituent , like mine , can benefit . we will work through the usual process to ensure that happen . Stepping Hill Hospital if he will provide funding for the repair of Stepping Hill hospital in Stockport . I thank the hon . Lady , along with my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) , for her continued support for Stepping Hill hospital . I know that she be work hard on this issue . we be back the NHS with over £ 4 billion of funding for integrate care board for capital priority , with a dedicated £ 750 million estate safety fund next year to address the poor quality hospital . I be pleased that the replacement of Stepping Hill ' s outpatient facility be already under way , back by £ 11 . 5 million this year . I look forward to visit as soon as my diary allow . I be grateful to the Minister for her response and our ongoing correspondence on this issue . I very much look forward to meet she on site at Stepping Hill so that she can see for herself the report £ 134 million repair backlog at the site . the most recent board paper mention a £ 19 . 9 million significant risk backlog , which be have a detrimental effect on the hospital team ' s ability to see and treat patient . what hope can the Minister give that there be a plan for the funding of building at Stepping Hill so that my constituent get the treatment that they deserve ? the hon . Lady outline for her constituent what many across the House will recognise : the state that the last Government leave the capital estate in . the autumn Budget commit over £ 13 billion into next year , with £ 4 billion for icb to start prioritise some of this work . we have allocate £ 1 billion for critical backlog , maintenance and upgrade . a long - term capital plan will follow the 10 - year plan that we be currently develop to offer the hope for her constituent that she ask for . Special Educational need assessment what step his Department be take with Cabinet colleague to increase access to assessment for special educational need . child and young people with special educational need be wait too long for the NHS service that they need , in large part because local authority have be hollow out by 14 year of austerity . we be support early intervention through the partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school — pin — programme , which be back by £ 13 million of funding . NHS England have also launch a taskforce to look at how support can be improve for people with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder . we look forward to its report later this year . Cambridgeshire have some of the low funding in England for GP practice and school . give the Government ' s focus on growth for the area and the record demand for special educational need and disability and young people ' s mental health service , will the Minister work with colleague across Government to ensure that high - growth area no long suffer low than average funding ? our commitment to improve SEND condition be universal . we be look at this from the point of view of improve provision right across the country . I be very pleased that the PINS programme be make progress . I draw the hon . Lady ' s attention to the early language support for every child — elsec — programme , in which nine pathfinder site over two year will provide early identification , and targeted and universal support for child with speech , language and communication need in early year and primary school setting . we be work very closely with colleague across the Department for Education and NHS England on that . local authority resource be a big driver of some challenge in the SEND system , but it be clear to anyone work in it that a systemic under - prioritisation of child ' s health , all too often by local NHS trust , be a big contributing factor . young people right across my constituency wait for assessment and lacking support be pay the price . as part of our 10 - year plan to reform the NHS , how will we ensure that child ' s health be front and centre again , with much more support for people with additional need ? I be work very closely with colleague in the DFE on how we mainstream SEND provision more effectively , get more rapid education , health and care plan and autism diagnose , and on a whole range of issue that require strong cross - party work . I would be happy to brief my hon . friend on that separately . Dementia Diagnosis Rates what step his Department be take to help reach the national dementia diagnosis rate target . the dementia diagnosis rate target be not meet for the last five year of the Conservative Government , and it decline over the course of the last Parliament . this Government be commit to ensure that at least two third of people live with dementia receive a diagnosis . the Government be invest in dementia research across all area , from cause , diagnosis and prevention to treatment , care and support , to help people live with this condition . nearly 1 million people be live with dementia — it be the big cause of death in the country today — and by the end of the 2030s that figure be set to rise to 1 . 4 million . early diagnosis be one of the good thing we can do to support people live with dementia , so will the Secretary of State explain why the dementia diagnosis target no long feature in NHS England ' s priority , as publish two week ago ? will he commit to reinstate both dementia and the commitment to a diagnosis target in NHS England ' s priority guideline ? I just restate the Government ' s commitment to ensure that at least two third of people live with dementia receive a diagnosis . our investment and reform agenda will speed up diagnostic across the board . under the last government , NHS planning guidance be a wish list of fantasy target , most of which be never meet . as the NHS get bad and bad , they pile on more target to make themselves look busy . this government be end the micromanagement , turn our NHS around and clear up their mess . my dad be a gp in Hartlepool for over 30 year — the Secretary of State be kind enough to meet he the last time he be in Hartlepool — and he have Alzheimer ' s . every day , I think about why we do not spot the sign early enough to get the treatment that he need at an early stage . the Alzheimer ' s Society estimate that only 29 % of social care worker have any form of dementia training . do the Secretary of State agree that it be critical that we up that number and ensure that all social care worker have dementia training , to ensure early diagnosis ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question — I know how personal this issue be for he . I be delighted to meet his father on my visit to Hartlepool , and wish he very well . I take very seriously what my hon . friend have say about the importance of workforce training . he mention training for health and social care staff , which be important , but I would argue that the point apply more broadly across our society . on 6 September , the Department launch the adult social care learning and development support scheme , which allow eligible employer to claim for funding for certain training course and qualification , include relevant dementia training , for eligible care staff . we will continue to keep this under observation and review . nursing : career Progression Inequalities what step he be take to help tackle career progression inequality in nursing . I know that this issue be close to my hon . friend ' s heart , after his year of service as a nurse in the health service . we have to ensure that the NHS be an attractive place for nurse to work , and that they can progress . we hear directly from staff through our 10 - year plan , and work closely with the Royal College of Nursing , Unison and other trade union through our social partnership forum . I must disclose that I work as a mental health nurse in the NHS for the past 22 year , and that in my career , I progress from nurse to head of nursing . recruitment and retention of nursing staff across the health and social care sector be key to deliver an nhs that be fit for the future , but the most recent NHS staff workforce survey show that just 56 % of staff feel that the health service act fairly when it come to career progression . what step will this Government take to address this issue , and to ensure that our nursing workforce feel value and feel a sense of purpose in their wide work ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the issue be key , and that the result be worry . I know how proud my friend and family member be to become nurse , and what a great career nursing offer they . we have to deliver on the promise of a good career , and build on that pride in be a nurse . we absolutely recognise that we can not rebuild the NHS without their skill and their high - quality critical and compassionate care . do the Minister believe that the NHS should expect biologically female nursing staff to get change in front of biologically male colleague who identify as female ? no . waiting list : devolve administration what step he be take to help devolve administration reduce waiting list . I be delighted to work closely with the hon . Gentleman when he be Minister for Health for Northern Ireland , and I be delighted to work with his successor . I have meet regularly with my counterpart in Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales since I take up office . the Chancellor ' s recent Budget mean a massive £ 26 billion - a - year boost for the health and social care service ; thank to the Barnett consequential , the devolve administration will benefit from a major increase in their budget — the big since devolution begin . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . just over a year ago , the former Health Secretary write to counterpart in the devolved Administrations to offer patient from Wales and Scotland who be experience lengthy wait the option of treatment by provider in England . the offer be decline , as it be see as a political stunt . would the Secretary of State consider review that offer , but this time include Northern Ireland , so that his call to offer the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS can be share across the entire nation ? I be absolutely committed to our work across the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on cross - border working and co - operation , where we can . I have have constructive conversation , particularly with my counterpart in Wales , to that effect , and I would be delighted to work with my counterpart in Northern Ireland in the same spirit . despite our differ view on the future of the United Kingdom , I have have equally constructive discussion with my counterpart in Scotland , although he may not thank I for mention it . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . yesterday , we kick off National HIV Testing Week . get test for HIV be quick , free and confidential . I pay tribute to the leadership of my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister , who become the first leader in the history of the G7 to take an HIV test . as a former member of the independent HIV Commission , I be determined that this Government will deliver on our commitment to end new transmission of HIV in England by 2030 . we will set out our aim shortly in our new action plan , which will be develop by I and my brilliant new Minister , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) . fourteen year of austerity have create a new stratum of society : the in - work poor . recent talk of ruthless cut to social security be beyond alarming . do the Secretary of State agree that have a welfare system that cover the cost of essential , as propose by the Trussell Trust and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , would alleviate hunger and hardship , and therefore relieve considerable strain on the NHS ? I be a product of the welfare state , and I remember the benefit system put food in the fridge and money in the electric meter . I also know from live experience that people who be trap in the benefit system want to escape . the good way out of poverty be not through social security , important though that is , but through fair , decent work that pay . that be the Government ' s agenda . just a reminder that we be on topical , folk . I congratulate the hon . member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) on her promotion to the Front Bench . eat disorder affect over 1 . 25 million people , and this be the last Health and Social Care Question Time before Eating Disorders Awareness Week , which start later this month . the Secretary of State will be aware of the amazing work do by the eat disorder charity Beat , which I meet a few month ago , and to which I pay tribute . will he back Beat ' s call for broad access to intensive community and day treatment for those with eat disorder — there be limited place currently — and set out a timetable in which that will be deliver ? I really welcome the shadow Secretary of State ' s raise that important issue . too often , even when patient with eat disorder be in health setting , they do not receive the right care or support at the right time . I would be delighted to receive representation from Beat on how we can improve the situation . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for that answer . he will know that osteoporosis impact 3 million people . he be aware of the campaign by the Royal Osteoporosis Society , and the powerful parallel campaign lead by the Mail on Sunday and the Daily Mail , for access to fracture liaison service across the country . Pre - election , he commit to support that , and a roll - out plan . People will look for an answer that look to the future , not the past , so when will he publish the fracture liaison service roll - out plan , to ensure that all who need to access those vital service can , and will he work with campaigner and I to achieve that roll - out before 2030 ? this be unusually consensual today . the Government be commit to roll out fracture liaison service across every part of the country by 2030 . I promise that before the election , and that be what we be deliver . in fact , we have already start by invest in 14 hi - tech DXA — dual - energy x - ray absorptiometry — scanner , which be expect to provide an extra 29 , 000 scan to ensure that people with bone condition get diagnose early . I note that the shadow Secretary of State do not want to look to the past — I be not surprised , give the Conservatives ' record — but I be sure that we can work together in the future . for those in village such as Slaggyford , Kirkhaugh and Mohope , the cottage hospital in Alston be close than the hospital in Hexham . as my constituent Rowland outline to I , despite that proximity , ambulance service find themselves restrict by county border . rural constituent ' access to healthcare and rapid response service be suffer as a result . will the Minister meet I to discuss ambulance service in rural area ? I holiday in my hon . friend ' s constituency this summer — it be a very beautiful part of the world — so I understand some of the rural challenge . it be a matter for local integrate care board how they organise ambulance service . there be many problem that we want to resolve , and I would of course be very happy to meet he . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I , too , welcome the new Minister to her place . this morning ' s oral health survey reveal that more than one in five five - year - old in England have experience dental decay , affect their ability to smile and socialise , as well as cause pain and distress . will the Secretary of State guarantee the Government ' s commitment to tackle the problem , and back liberal Democrat call for an emergency scheme that guarantee dental check - up for child ? this be an issue that the Government be prioritise . the hon . member will be aware of the commitment we make to provide 700 , 000 urgent dentistry appointment . we be ramp up to deliver on that commitment , as well as to deliver supervised toothbrushing in our school . far wider - range reform be need ; I be work closely with the Minister for Care to rebuild NHS dentistry , after the rot leave in it by the Conservatives . as we hear from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , this be National HIV Testing Week . in the Liverpool city region , Steve Rotheram be form plan to end new HIV case by 2030 , and the Royal Liverpool university hospital be start opt - out testing . as my right hon . Friend say , this week , our Prime Minister become the first leader in , I think , the G20 to take an HIV test . what plan do my right hon . friend have to ensure that there be more HIV testing beyond this important week ? increase HIV testing be a vital step towards meet our goal , and it will be a core element of our new HIV action plan , which will be publish later in the year . we be invest more than £ 4 . 5 million in deliver a national prevention programme , and , with backing of an extra £ 1 . 5 million , we will extend the programme for a further year , until March 2026 . the charity that organise the campaign " the Darker Side of Pink " estimate that 31 woman lose their battle against metastatic breast cancer every day , which mean that more than 20 , 000 have die since I first raise this matter two year ago during Prime Minister ' s Question Time . what will the Government do to increase awareness , understanding , the availability of drug and screening for woman face this challenge ? the hon . member be right to raise this serious and important issue . we want to ensure that we improve diagnostic , access to treatment and research , and I can think of no well person to lead the work on this area of the national cancer strategy than my hon . friend the Minister for Secondary Care , who have live experience , and who demonstrate that people can live well with cancer . woman across the country , include my constituent Lisa from Haxey , be struggle to access vital hormone replacement therapy medication , such as Estradot patch . owe to a 30 - year - long medical condition , Lisa have her ovary remove and now face severe health consequence because of these ongoing medication shortage , and there be no resolution expect soon . give the repeat supply issue with HRT in recent year , what action be the Minister take to ensure a consistent and reliable supply of those essential medicine ? I entirely appreciate the frustration and distress cause by medical supply shortage . we be work intensively with industry to resolve the HRT supply issue , and the problem with the supply of Estradot be expect to be resolve by the end of the month . meanwhile , we have issue a serious shortage protocol to allow community pharmacist to supply alternative brand of the same medicine , and those remain available . my constituent James , from Abbots Langley , write to I on the subject of the Chancellor ' s recent talk about push infrastructure project , such as the Heathrow airport expansion . why be the Health Secretary not push for this infrastructure funding to be spend on the new Watford General hospital , a project that have cross - party support , be shovel - ready and will save life ? if the hon . member be so committed to that project , perhaps he can explain why his party do so little about it in government . since April , Crawley ' s urgent treatment centre have be temporarily close overnight because of low staffing level . what do the Government intend to do to ensure that normal service be resume for community such as mine ? we be absolutely committed to urgent treatment centre , which play a vital role in support patient , especially during period of high demand . I understand that this be temporary , and that the centre be run a pilot . I know that my hon . friend will work closely with his local integrate care board to ensure that it serve his constituency adequately . there be 153 , 000 people in the United Kingdom live with Parkinson ' s , and one in 137 will be diagnose during their lifetime . there be 18 , 000 new case every year , 4 , 200 of they in Northern Ireland . do the Secretary of State agree that it be time we have a Parkinson ' s charity , not just for England but for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland as well ? as I always say , let we do it well together . where have I hear that before ? the hon . Member know that I will agree with he on the matter of the Union , but I also believe that we should work cross - border wherever we can , especially when it come to important issue such as Parkinson ' s . we have to make well breakthrough in research , treatment and , hopefully , find a cure . after 14 year of conservative government , 77 % of people in Derby can not access an NHS dentist . can the Minister tell we what cause the rot to set in and how we can fill the cavity in provision ? I see what my hon . friend do there , and she should brace herself as we drill down into this answer . the conservative party be the cause of the rot : spending on NHS dentistry fall by a staggering 18 % between 2010 and 2024 , so it be little wonder that dentistry be on its knee . we will shortly set out plan to introduce supervised tooth brushing for three to five - year - old in the most deprived community , and we be work with the dental sector to implement our rescue plan . new research from Marie Curie have find that 85 % of public expenditure on people in the final year of life in Scotland be spend in hospital and only 14 % on community care . the figure be very similar for England . what work be be do to ensure a minimum standard of community treatment for people in the final year of life ? it be vital that we have a palliative and end of life care service that work and be on a sustainable footing . I have have discussion with the sector . we want to ensure that we do not have the cliff edge that we have at the end of last year . the hon . Gentleman be right to point to this , and we will report back in due course . the Minister will be aware that the contract uplift for dentist be face a near 11 - month delay . can he confirm that dentist will be receive their uplift ? what will be do to make sure that they receive enough money to cover the cost of NHS dentistry ? I can reassure my hon . friend on that point . we implement the contract uplift on 29 January . dentist will therefore be receive their uplifted payment in March , backdate to 1 April 2024 . for the first time in more than a decade , we have also increase payment for practice train a foundation dentist . in Maldon , the number of patient per GP be already 50 % above the number for England , and that will only increase with the amount of propose house building . GPs be struggle to cope with ever increase cost , and I have one practice still undertake so - call collective action . will the Government review the whole system of GP funding before it break down completely ? we be in negotiation about the future contract with the General Practitioners Committee England of the British Medical Association . those negotiation be proceed , and the right hon . Gentleman be right that we need serious reform ; we will be push reform through on that basis . on his point about the estate , we have a £ 102 million commitment on capital for the primary care estate , which I think will go some way towards reassure he . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for all the support he have give the University of East Anglia to set up its dental school , but he will be aware that all those shiny new dentist come out in a few year ' time will be go into the private sector , not the NHS , unless we can sort out the NHS dental contract . can he give we any kind of timeline for when we can expect to hear an announcement on that critical factor ? I wish my hon . friend all the good with his effort to get that dental school up and run . as for the need for serious reform , there be no perfect payment system , but we have to get a payment system in place that make NHS dentistry attractive — at least as attractive as do work in the private sector . we be work at pace on that , and I will report back on that as rapidly as possible . some 44 , 066 child — one in six — be wait more than a year for medical treatment , compare with one in 100 adult . wait be at their bad in community medicine . in Dorset , there be wait of up to two year in child development , and delay of a year be normal for child and adolescent mental health service . fifty - three per cent of all community health referral take more than a year . will the Minister confirm whether the 18 - week target will apply to community referral and not just hospital ? if not , when can we expect a target , so that child be not badly affect ? the hon . member be absolutely right to put the spotlight on paediatric health . mental health be important for child and young people , but physical health be too . this Government be commit to dramatically reduce waiting list and return to the 18 - week standard by the end of this Parliament , but we should aim to go even hard after those childhood waiting list , because many child wait in pain and agony be lose valuable year of their childhood that they will never get back . the Government know how hard I have work as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for medical cannabis on or under prescription . I be pleased to hear that there be a trial , but I urge the Minister and her team to make sure that it actually go ahead , as other have not because of Brexit , covid and election . can she please meet I to ensure that the APPG and I be keep up to date on the work of the NHS ? my hon . friend have be a strong campaigner on this issue on behalf of her constituent , and I congratulate she on that work . we be confident that the randomised trial will go forward , and we have invest over £ 8 . 5 million in it . I be very happy to meet she , and I urge people to come forward and support the trial . that be the way forward on this issue . the new Health Minister have state that it be okay for a human being to present as a llama . if I have a family member who present as a llama and suddenly become ill in the middle of the night , should I send for a doctor , a vet or a straitjacket ? I can say to the hon . member that my hon . friend the Minister believe in treat every human be with the dignity and respect they deserve — even the hon . Gentleman . shortly after the election , the new Government announce £ 4 . 3 million for a new community mental health hub in Whitehaven . unfortunately , the local mental health trust follow that decision by announce the closure of the Yewdale ward for acute mental health service . do the Minister agree that we need to get early intervention right before we close acute service , and will he bring together a meeting to scrutinise that decision ? integrate care board be responsible for provide mental health service to meet the need of their local population . as part of our plan for change , we will reduce delay and provide fast treatment . we be work with NHS England to transform mental health service , shift care from hospital to local community , and increase access to support for people across the country , include in rural area . Insomnia affect many patient , include my constituent , who be be advise by their GPs to try cognitive behavioural therapy as an alternative to medication . however , digital CBT programme be not available on the NHS , leave many without access to drug - free treatment . will the Minister outline what step the Government be take to ensure that patient have access to digital therapy , so that more people can get access to evidence - base , drug - free support ? the hon . Gentleman hit the nail on the head when he mention the importance of evidence - base treatment . as part of the Government ' s shift from hospital to the community , from analogue to digital and from sickness to prevention , the NHS absolutely should be in this space , and we be consider those issue as we develop our 10 - year plan for health . the NHS South East London integrate care board provide service to my constituent , and I have discuss some way in which we could well deliver service by redevelop the Erith community hospital site in Northumberland Heath . be the Minister able to provide an outline of the Government ' s plan to provide capital funding for expand community service like those at Erith hospital ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend so that we can get into a bit more detail about what be happen in his constituency , but he be absolutely right to point to the need for more and well community health service . that will be at the heart of our shift from hospital to community in the 10 - year plan that we be deliver . health authority in Devon be set to trial the relocation of a vital coronary service from Torbay to Exeter , which be 24 mile away . will the Minister meet I and fellow south Devon MPs who have grave concern about the impact on patient safety ? it be important that people be able to get the right care in the right place at the right time , and I recognise the challenge , particularly in geography such as Devon and Cornwall , which have more rural and remote community . in the first instance , I encourage the hon . gentleman to take this issue up with local health leader and his integrate care board , but Ministers be always open to receive representation beyond that if he need further reassurance . clonoe Inquest before I call the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) to ask his urgent question , I must remind hon . member of the House ' s rule relate to matter sub judice : member should not refer to any matter that be currently before the court . on 19 November , I grant a waiver in respect of the case of Dillon and other v . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , give the issue of national importance raise by that case . the waiver be ongoing , and member may refer to the case in the House . give that the coroner ' s verdict and finding in relation to the Clonoe inquest have be publish , I be content for that case to be discuss in the House . however , member should take care to avoid refer to any other active civil or criminal case . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland to make a statement on the coroner ' s rule in the Clonoe inquest . on 16 February 1992 , a heavily armed unit of the Provisional IRA carry out an attack on Coalisland police station arm with a 12 . 7 mm heavy machine gun and three AKM rifle . approximately 60 round be fire , but thankfully no one be injure . follow the attack , the IRA unit proceed to a car park where they be engage by soldier of the Army ' s specialist military unit . this result in four man , Patrick Vincent , Sean o ' Farrell , Peter Paul Clancy and Kevin o ' Donnell , be shoot and kill by the soldier . on 6 February , Mr Justice Humphreys , sit as a coroner in the inquest into the circumstance of those death at Clonoe chapel , find that the use of lethal force by the soldier be unjustified and that " the operation be not plan and control in such a way as to minimise to the great extent possible the need for recourse to lethal force . " the coroner far find that the soldier do not hold " an honest and genuinely hold belief " that the use of force be necessary to defend themselves or other . these be clearly very significant matter that require careful consideration . I know that the Ministry of Defence be consider the coroner ' s find . therefore there be , unfortunately , a limit to what I be able to say in relation to the finding themselves , particularly give that there be also an ongoing civil case relate to these event . however , it be clear the Government must take such finding very seriously . we owe a great debt to our armed force — order . there be no sub judice to the case that you have just mention . we must be clear on that . so please let we not try to use that as a barrier . I just want to be clear on that . I accept that entirely , Mr Speaker . I be merely point out , as I think your statement allude to , that there be an ongoing civil case . we owe a great debt to our armed force . the vast majority of those who serve in Operation Banner during the trouble do so with distinction . they operate in the most dangerous and difficult circumstance to protect the citizen of the United Kingdom . during the trouble , over 1 , 000 member of the security force lose their life in that endeavour . it be right that we hold our armed force to the high standard . we must also recognise the extreme circumstance that they face . that be what set they apart from the terrorist organisation who indiscriminately murder over 3 , 000 people during the trouble . I thank the Secretary of State for take this statement personally . I know that he do not have to , so I thank he for that . the Government give notice at the election that they intend to remove the element of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 that protect soldier and police who serve during the trouble from prosecution . last week ' s frankly speculative judgment from the Northern Ireland coroner into the Clonoe shooting now expose a number of soldier to potential prosecution . these be man who serve their country with honour , heroism and skill , sometimes in the face of the most incredible danger . they be now mostly in their 60 and 70 and no doubt hope for a well - earn peaceful retirement . in his statement in December , the Secretary of State of speak of " recognise the dedicated service of the vast majority of police officer , member of the armed force and the security service who do so much to keep the people of Northern Ireland safe during the trouble . " [ Official Report , 4 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 419 . ] so precisely what be the Government go to do to stop the vengeful pursuit of decent patriotic people ? if the Government leave they open to persecution , it will frankly be shameful and serve only to further the IRA ' s attempt to rewrite the history of Northern Ireland . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for ask this urgent question . as he will be aware , this inquest be part of the five - year plan establish by the former Lord Chief Justice , and because the hearing be hold prior to the legacy Act 1 may cut - off , the inquest be able to be conclude . for the avoidance of doubt , it be not the result of anything that this Government have do . the Government set out in our election manifesto and the King ' s Speech our commitment to repeal and replace the legacy Act , because it do something quite remarkable in unite the political party and community of Northern Ireland in opposition to it . it be a fatally flawed piece of legislation that have be find , in a number of respect , to be incompatible with our obligation under the european convention on human right . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] this Government believe in uphold our commitment to the european convention on human right , even if other member do not share that view . I set out in my statement to the House of Commons in December the approach that we be take , and I will bring forward further proposal in due course . I echo what the right hon . Gentleman say about the service of our armed force , the police and security service during those terribly dark , difficult and bloody day of the trouble . I thank the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) for his urgent question and the Secretary of State for his answer . I have a simple question : what do the Secretary of State think this ruling will mean for peace and reconciliation and for bring community together in Northern Ireland ? that be a judgment that individual and community will have to make , have regard to what the coroner have to say . there have be a very large number of inquest finding in relation to the trouble , and the Government and I understand the concern that have be raise by the coroner ' s finding in this case . the fundamental problem in Northern Ireland remain the legacy of the trouble and the fact that so many people still do not have an answer to the question of what happen to their love one . I be afraid the previous Government make , in my view , a terrible mistake in decide that civil case and inquest would be close off . I also have to point out that the legacy Act do not prevent the possibility of future prosecution , because it be possible , even under the law as it stand today , for prosecution to be undertake if the independent commission find evidence that it think should be pass to the independent prosecution body . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you for grant this UQ , Mr Speaker . on a February night in 1992 , four man — know terrorist — arm with semi - automatic weapon and a Dushka machine gun capable of fire 600 round a minute at a range of 1 , 100 yard have already attack a Royal Ulster Constabulary police station and be plan further attack . these terrorist call themselves an army , they carry weapon of war , they seek to kill , and they operate entirely outside the bound of the law . yet we be ask to believe that the use of lethal force against they be not justify . I be not a lawyer , but if this be the state of the law , then the law be an ass , and it be up to Parliament to change it . what if this have not be on the street of Tyrone ? what if it have be on the street of Birmingham ? what if it have be in Parliament Square ? would we be ask why those man have not be arrest ? would we find it acceptable that the court subsequently seek to punish those force that have risk their life for our ? the consequence of this ruling be potentially very severe : military morale weaken , military recruitment reduce , military effectiveness diminish , and more retired servicemen in their decline year drag before the court for try to protect their countryman from terrorist . for the record , there be no Defence Minister on the Treasury Bench to hear this urgent question . the last Government take step to ensure that a line be draw under court action like the one hand down last week . this Government have say they will repeal that Act , but seven month into their tenure , they have bring forward no plan . when will the House see that legislation ? when we do see it , will the Secretary of State ensure that it include provision to protect servicemen , such as those affect by the ruling , from prosecution ? the Secretary of State will have see this morning the excellent report by Policy Exchange , which put the cost of repeal the legacy Act at hundred of million of pound . the return to inquest and civil case will severely hit the budget of the Police Service of Northern Ireland . without funding , that will inevitably reduce policing and affect national security . will his Majesty ' s Government commit to underwriting that liability ? I will end by say that if we in this House think the law be not fit for purpose , it be our job , and our alone , to change it . that be what parliamentary sovereignty mean . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his comment . I completely understand the concern , which he have express with such passion , about our armed service personnel , include in relation to this case . he have just say , " if this be the law , the law need to be change . " be he suggest that the arrangement for inquest and the way in which they be conduct — coroner sit , hear the evidence and come to a finding — ought to be change ? [ interruption . ] that be a very interesting observation from his Majesty ' s opposition . the legislation pass by the last Government would have give the very terrorist who be kill in the exchange of fire , if they have survive , the ability to secure immunity from prosecution . that be what the last Government ' s legacy Act do . it would have give anyone — soldier , but also terrorist — immunity from prosecution . I be afraid that this Government take the view that that be wrong and the court have determine that that be wrong . that be why we will repeal and replace the legacy Act . throughout the trouble , both state and non - state actor commit unlawful killing that have create harm and scarred family across both our island . do the Secretary of State agree that his government , work with the northern irish party , must find and build body that honour the Stormont House obligation of article 2 and 3 - compliant investigation and ensure that no victim - maker — nobody who carry out an unlawful killing , whether UK state force , IRA or UDA — have the right to suppress truth from family ? as I have previously indicate to the House , I be commit in all my discussion with many of those affect , include veteran , to find a way forward that can command a degree of consensus in a way that the last Government ' s legacy Act fail to do . I understand the strength of feeling be express in the House today — I really do — but there need to be some reflection on how a piece of legislation come to be pass that engender almost universal opposition in Northern Ireland . the people of Northern Ireland , who , after all , live through the trouble , do not feel that that be the right way to proceed , and time and again it have be find to be unlawful . in other word , we be leave with a mess and we be do our good to try to fix it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) for bring this issue to the House . the Liberal Democrats be firmly committed to the principle of truth , justice and accountability . the violence carry out by the IRA during the trouble be abhorrent and inflict deep suffering on community across Northern Ireland . at the same time , uphold the rule of law be a fundamental principle that apply to all , include the action of state force . the finding of the Clonoe inquest highlight the importance of due process and transparency in deal with legacy issue . it be vital that family seek answer about the past be able to access justice and that all event be subject to rigorous legal scrutiny . that be the only way to build trust and support a last reconciliation in Northern Ireland . there have be immense progress in Northern Ireland since the Good Friday agreement and that progress be build on the principle of justice , democracy and accountability . we — all of we — must continue to uphold those principle if we be to secure a lasting and peaceful future for all community . the Secretary of State recently say that legislation to revoke the deeply flawed legacy Act , which do not command confidence across Northern Ireland , will be introduce when time allow . will he offer detail on when that might be ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his observation . the answer to his last question be : when parliamentary time allow . as soon as I be in a position to indicate when that will be , I will tell the House . I very much agree with what the hon . Gentleman say about the violence inflict by terrorist be abhorrent . it be important that in this House we make it quite clear that there be always an alternative to violence : pursue the path of peace . when people finally decide that that be the course of action that they should take , we see a transformation in the life of people in Northern Ireland . the tragedy be that so many people be kill and murder before we get to the point of the Good Friday agreement . the Secretary of State ask rhetorically whether the law around inquest need to change . the coroner have to answer four question : where , when , who and how . he have no role in try to answer why , but we know why : four deprave terrorist for the IRA and their warped ideology try to destroy society and kill in our country . yesterday , the Defence Secretary be clear when he say that those who serve in the SAS that day , " deserve , and they will receive , our full support . " — [ Official Report , 10 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 21 . ] I will not stand for a rewriting of the past . do the Secretary of State agree with the Defence Secretary ? I do not support a rewriting of the past either . of course we should stand with our armed service veteran , which be what the Ministry of Defence do . I will say , however , that the coroner — a judge — consider the fact of the case and come to an independent judgment about they . we be all of course perfectly free to express a view about the finding but , to come back to my point in answer to the Opposition spokesperson ' s early comment : if member argue that the coronial system apply to inquest right across the country should — [ interruption . ] if I may just finish the point : if they argue that the system should be change because there be a great deal of feeling about particular finding that the coroner reach , the House should give that careful consideration before go down that road . do the Secretary of State accept that the Northern Ireland ( Sentences ) Act 1998 continue to apply ? that mean that no soldier and no terrorist , convict of even the most heinous murder , can serve more than two year in jail . those be the sort of compromise that have be necessary . when the Secretary of State accept that the legacy Act would have give immunity to terrorist and soldier alike , do he not recognise the principle of a truth recovery process , couple with a statute of limitation , as exemplify by what happen in South Africa ? be what be good enough for Nelson Mandela not good enough for Northern Ireland ? the right hon . Gentleman make a fair point . society around the world that have face terrible conflict have each take their own path to try to find a way forward . the release of 400 prisoner in the two year after the Good Friday agreement be a very bitter pill to swallow for many in Northern Ireland , but I support that step — it be nothing to do with I at the time — because it be the right one to take to enable the Good Friday agreement to be reach . I say to the right hon . Gentleman that I have meet people , include the family of a member of our armed force who be murder by the IRA , who express to I their bitter opposition to the immunity provision of the legacy Act . the sharpen tension in Northern Ireland be palpable after the ruling . the day after the shooting , the Provisional IRA issue a statement boast that the man be in the East Tyrone brigade and on active service . Mr Speaker , you and I know the Bible , and it be very clear : live by the sword , die by the sword . if you live by a machine gun that you use to shoot a police station , you die by a machine gun — that be the way that I see it . for right - think people in Northern Ireland , and indeed throughout this United Kingdom , to be tell that the use of lethal force be not justify fly in the face of common justice , and feed the feeling that the judiciary be not just complicit but active in their rewriting of history . what can the Secretary of State do to rectify that situation ? the finding of the coroner in this case stand for themselves and be on the record , and all of we be able to read they . in answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s direct question about what the Government be do , as I indicate to the House in my answer to the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) , the Ministry of Defence be , of course , give very serious consideration to what the coroner have to say . I be astonish by the coroner ' s finding . he be not ask to contemplate the question about why — get inside the head of a soldier who be worried about whether they be go to be shoot dead be very difficult . I serve in Northern Ireland and some of the decision that we have to take be instantaneous . there be no time to mull they over — it be either life or death . I lose a very good friend , Captain Robert Nairac . the Secretary of State say that the trouble with the last legacy Act be that it give immunity to IRA member , but they already have immunity , not just through the letter of comfort but because they keep no record , so they can not be prosecute . the only group that will be prosecute will be soldier , like myself , who never ask to go to Northern Ireland , but go because we be tell to protect civilian , and who serve their country . they will be drag in front of the court because the Government seem not to care about they . I say to the right hon . Gentleman , who himself give distinguished service , that I absolutely understand and recognise the point he forcefully make about the circumstance in which our soldier find themselves as part of Operation Banner . they have see their comrade kill and they do not know what they be go to face ; as he rightly say , in those circumstance soldier have to make very hard split - second decision . the coroner have a job to do . he express his finding , member of the House be express what they feel about those finding , and the Ministry of Defence be consider they . it be right and proper that we stand by our armed force , which be why the Government and the Ministry of Defence give support to veteran in those circumstance . however , I would point out that many , many member of the Provisional IRA and the loyalist terrorist organisation be prosecute , try and convict . base on the Secretary of State ' s early comment , be it not now clear that the Secretary of State believe the Government can not stand behind our brave soldier in this instance because of our membership of the european convention on human right ? therefore , surely that be a perfect reason why we must leave the echr . that be not the Government ' s position . the Government ' s position be indeed to stand behind our brave armed service personnel — by repeal the Bill . by repeal the Bill , indeed , which have be find repeatedly to be unlawful . I make no apology for say to the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) and to the House that this be a Government who uphold the european convention on human right . I recognise that some people say we should leave , which would put we in the same position as some other country around the world with which I would not want the United Kingdom to find itself associate . the point about the european convention be that its right be for every single citizen : those right may accord people with a decision that Members of the House disagree with today , but tomorrow they may protect the right of every single one of we . that be why we be commit to the echr . how will the Secretary of State ensure that veteran who serve their country with distinction will not be hound through the court over event that may or may not have happen decade before ? as history show , decision about potential prosecution be take by independent prosecutor . such decision be not determine by the Government ; independent prosecutor have to take decision on the basis of the evidence and then court have to decide whether they be go to convict or not . that be call the rule of law . a distinguished former Defence Secretary , Ben Wallace , set out very clearly that the british Army believe in the rule of law and be hold to the high standard , and I agree with he . I also agree with what the newly appoint veteran commissioner in Northern Ireland have to say about that in the comment that be report over the weekend . there be tangible anger in Northern Ireland over this preposterous verdict , and the Secretary of State ' s limp response today will not assuage that anger . this be a Secretary of State who want to see IRA godfather Gerry Adams pay compensation because the wrong Minister sign his detention order 50 year ago . this be a Secretary of State who have today defend the retention of a coronary system that , time without number , put the security force in the dock , but never the terrorist . little wonder that confidence in the Secretary of State be haemorrhage in Northern Ireland , and this response only underscore why . as I make clear at Northern Ireland question recently , the Supreme Court issue a judgment on the interim custody order relate to internment in 2020 . the previous Government know there be a problem and , for quite a long period of time , be unable to find a solution . in the end , the solution — section 46 and 47 of the legacy Act — have be find to be unlawful , but I have give an undertaking from the Dispatch Box that we be look at all lawful mean to prevent compensation from be pay in those circumstance . I believe that we be take the right approach to the legacy Act . on coroner , I say for , I think , the third time that if we have an inquest system that we support and that apply right across the piece , it be not possible to write legislation that say , " we will have the verdict , judgment and finding that we like , but we will not have the finding that we do not like . " that be a decision — [ interruption . ] independent coroner make those decision in respect of individual case . I feel the anger of many member of the House — [ interruption . ] will the hon . and learn Gentleman let I finish answer the question that he put ? I feel the anger that be be express in the House , but we have an independent legal system in this country , which be one of the foundation of our freedom . the IRA itself claim the terrorist shoot by the security force at Clonoe , describe their action that night as be " active service " . they have just launch a cowardly attack on Coalisland RUC station , no doubt with murderous intent , but they meet real soldier and they lose . no doubt many innocent life be save by the security force as a result of that evening : these be not innocent people , but harden terrorist . do the Secretary of State agree that this be a justified and necessary operation , within the guideline of military interception , and will he condemn judicial ruling that seek to rewrite history , undermine our security force and embolden bloodthirsty terrorist who wage war against innocent people ? I accept the characterisation that the hon . Member have ascribe to the individual . clearly , in fire 60 round at the police station , we know what their intent be . that be what the Provisional IRA and terrorist on the loyalist side do during the course of the trouble , and we have to speak of that as well . the coroner ' s finding be there on the record . member and public society be perfectly entitle to express a view , and I acknowledge the concern that member have raise today . it be a very serious issue , and that be why it fall to the Ministry of Defence to consider the finding and what may follow . it be a great pity that no one from the Defence Front - Bench team be here with we because I be sure that if they be , they could confirm that the DShK machine gun that these man have be a weapon of incredible power . if we be to look around the average city block , there would be nothing that a DShK could not hit and put a bullet right through . we now sit here warm and safe and consider the action of , as we have hear , brave man who have to take an instantaneous decision to stand up and face that weapon and the people who have already demonstrate that they be prepared to use it . it stick in the craw that we hear the IRA describe here as a " unit " — as though they be some sort of army . they style themselves as an army , but they be not an army — they be a murder gang , simple as that . be it not the case that the ECHR now skew the balance in their favour , and that we be hide - bind by the idea that there be an equivalence between the IRA and the brave soldier of the SAS who stand up and do what they have to do to protect innocent life ? there be no equivalence at all — none whatsoever — for the reason that have be set out by member in this exchange , follow the question ask by the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington . there be nothing in the european convention on human right that say there must be equivalence . our armed service personnel , the ruc , security service and other be do their good to protect the citizen of Northern Ireland from the murderous onslaught that they be subject to over the year of the trouble . that be why there be no equivalence between they and those who choose in those circumstance to use violence to try to advance their cause . in the end , the terrible violence that we be discuss be bring to an end by the Good Friday agreement — by people finally recognise that that be not the way to proceed . go back to the question ask about the cost by the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , there be an alternative cost , which be what we would have face if the Good Friday agreement have not be successful in bring peace to Northern Ireland . we should recognise what a significant moment it be , but we should stand with our soldier . much have be make in recognise the service of our armed force , include the member of the ruc and the psni , because not only do they defend our community , they live among they . do the Secretary of State agree that the soldier act inside the rule of engagement in that they believe their life be in danger from heavily armed terrorist , who be intent on murder , and that decision take in a split second by the military commander be , in his view , justify ? in all honesty , I have to say to the hon . Gentleman that , of course , I be not present at the time ; I be not the coroner ; I have not look into the circumstance of the case ; and therefore I be not in any position to answer the question that he have put to I . but I have read the summary of the coroner ' s finding . they of course raise serious matter , which be why the Ministry of Defence be consider they . as have be say , people in Northern Ireland be appal at this decision by a coroner who , incidentally , would have have police officer protect he during the trouble . I guarantee that have he be face with armed terrorist and those officer have ask they to put their hand up and surrender , he would have be appal . he would have expect they to be shoot . People will be equally appal by the measly mouthed response from the Secretary of State . let I quote some of the thing he have say : " I can ' t comment on this " , " we have to take seriously the judgment of the coroner " and " I will defend the ECHR , even though it have be abuse by terrorist . " when will the Secretary of State take the side of the soldier who fight in Northern Ireland and not be afraid that whatever he say here might offend Sinn F é in , the IRA and their supporter ? I will only say to the right hon . Gentleman that the characterisation of the view that he attempt to attribute to I be incorrect , but I make no apology for tell the House about this Government ' s support for the european convention , because this set of finding by the coroner have nothing to do with the european convention on human right . the coroner be face with a set of circumstance . he consider they and produce his finding , as inquest do all the time . People be entitle to criticise the outcome , but it be an independent coronial process . compound the problem that the coroner have create with his comment be the fact that in the past whenever innocent people be kill , the judiciary have comment that attention should be draw to those behind the scene who send young man out to carry out the killing . these young man be send out to kill ; they have murder in their mind . it be a pity that the coroner do not mention who be behind that — why be their name not be bring to public light ? do the Secretary of State agree that something like that might have help a little to minimise the compounding problem create by the coroner ' s comment at the time ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point about how we come to tell the truth about what happen ; to give the family answer — I have meet many of they , as have my predecessor — about what really happen . although we will repeal and replace the legacy Act , I decide to keep and reform the independent commission because I believe it offer the good mean of try to provide those answer in the round . the problem with the inqu system in certain case be that it have no capacity to deal with sensitive information ; the independent commission do . that be why I urge family in Northern Ireland who be still seek answer to talk to Sir Declan Morgan and his colleague , because he be able to produce report that can range as widely as he think appropriate . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I do not believe that the Secretary of State would have intend to mislead the House , but I suspect that he may have misunderstood the point be make , and it have filter into a number of his subsequent response . in relation to the coroner and his power , the point be make be that there be aspect of the judgment release on Thursday that be outwith the coronial law in Northern Ireland and outwith what would be expect of a judicial officer . I give the Secretary of State an opportunity to say not that the coronial law need to change , but that the judgment do not sit within the remit and power of the coronial system . do the Secretary of State wish to reply to that ? far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . that be a judgment for other to make , if that be the view they take . I accept that the right hon . Gentleman have make that point , but it would be for other to consider it , and it may be a factor that the Ministry of Defence consider when it be look at this set of rule . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . be there any way within the rule of order that I can point out how the divisiveness of the exchange that we have just have illustrate what happen when a line be not draw under bitter historical conflict ? I think the right hon . Gentleman have just do that for we , and I think I have hear enough — let we move on . US Steel Import Tariffs ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if he will make a statement on US steel import tariff . we have see the proclamation issue by President Trump overnight , which enforce a full return to 25 % tariff on US steel import on 12 March 2025 . the US have so far publish detail only on steel , not on aluminium . the intended effect of the proclamation be to revoke exist arrangement that have avoid those tariff , such as the UK - US resolution , as well as any separately agree product exclusion from the tariff . what british industry need and deserve be not a knee - jerk reaction but a cool and clear - head sense of the UK ' s national interest , base on a full assessment of all the implication of US action . the Minister of State for Industry be meet representative of the steel industry and trade union this very afternoon , and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade be in touch with representative of the british steel industry and will meet they in the next 24 hour . since July , we have engage in a systematic way with the UK steel sector , and we will continue to engage with UK industry impact by potential tariff . historically , we have benefit from a strong and balanced trade relationship with the United States — worth around £ 300 billion and support million of job . in trade policy , we stand ready to work with President Trump to find solution that work for both the United Kingdom and the United States . the United States be our great ally and our great single trading partner . the UK and the United States be the big investor in each other ' s economy . yet this be a moment of great peril for the UK steel industry , because the Government have fail to engage with gusto with the new US Administration . the Prime Minister have not , despite his many air mile , get on a flight to the States at the first possible opportunity , and year of student politic - style insult hurl at the President by Government Front Benchers have put our relationship in jeopardy . and that be before the embarrassment of the Chagos island situation show that we have terrible negotiator run the country . can the Minister confirm what conversation he or the Secretary of State have have with their counterpart in the United States about steel tariff ? how many time have the Minister speak with US trade representative about this matter since Sunday ? will he confirm that the first 500 , 000 tonne of steel to the US will be tariff - free , as they be under President Trump ' s previous Administration ? what economic analysis have the Department produce on the impact of the tariff on job and on the wide UK economy , and what plan do the Government have to reciprocate with tariff on US steel and aluminium , or on any other US good ? what be the Minister ' s plan for the safeguarding measure against steel dumping , which expire in June ? we on the conservative Benches have be call on the Government to strain every sinew for a trade deal with the United States . much work be do by the Department last time President Trump be in the White House . will the Minister finally set out what plan the Government have to obtain a big , beautiful free - trade agreement with the United States ? well , well — let I try to answer the various question that the shadow Minister ask . first , on the big , beautiful deal that the Conservatives contemplate , I simply observe that that be one of a whole number of trade deal that they boast about but abjectly fail to deliver . the hon . Lady describe this as a moment of great peril for the UK steel industry . frankly , we see the UK steel industry suffer from a degree of neglect for many year under the previous Government . that be why we be the first government in many year to set out a comprehensive steel strategy , include a commitment of £ 2 . 5 billion towards the future of the steel industry . we will take no lecture from Conservative Front Benchers on the UK steel industry . on the hon . Lady ' s substantive question about the degree of contact that we have have with the US trade representative , it may have elude her attention that we do not yet have a confirm US trade representative . we anticipate that Jamieson Greer will be confirm by the US Senate in the next couple of week . similarly , she might suggest that it be important for the Secretary of State to meet Howard Lutnick , the US Secretary of Commerce , but , alas , I must inform she that Howard Lutnick have not yet be confirm . we stand ready to engage with the incoming Administration — be that with the USTR or the Secretary of Commerce — once we be in a position to do so . in term of the economic analysis , I hope the hon . Lady will understand , give how sensitive these issue be as we anticipate the further step to be take by the Trump Administration , that it would not be an altogether wise negotiating strategy to share the detail of the internal UK analysis of the potential effect of tariff , which , I remind the House , be not due to be impose until 12 March . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . what be essential now be that this do not escalate . widespread duty on UK export to the US would be devastating for economic growth , bad for inflation and bad for interest rate . the whole House ought to wish his Majesty ' s new ambassador , Lord Mandelson , the very good of luck in the conduct of his new task in Washington . what flexibility will the Minister allow on increase funding to UK steelmaker through the steel strategy if they confirm that that be essential to maintain a sovereign capability in this country ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his generous word about the incoming UK ambassador to Washington , who — notwithstanding his commitment at the weekend to fly under the radar — be already in post and be make necessary call . he be but one of the key interlocutor we have establish with the incoming Administration , and — reflect the early question that we be ask — we be already actively engage with the US Administration . more broadly on the approach to the UK steel industry , my friend and colleague the Minister of State for Industry be this afternoon meeting representative of the steelmaking trade union and representative of the principal steel company in the United Kingdom . the Secretary of State will further that dialogue in the next 24 hour . there have already be outreach to the UK Steel trade body . in relation to the commitment for the steel strategy that we be due to unveil in the spring , I can assure my right hon . friend that there be already a very active dialogue that will incorporate issue relate not just to potential tariff but to the risk of trade diversion , and to the substantive issue that he raise . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Donald Trump ' s tariff will cause much uncertainty across the world , not least for those work in our great british steel industry . tariff be not just bad news for UK steel producer ; they would have a tangible effect on people ' s life , from low economic growth to high inflation . it be not likely to end with steel , so we may well be catch up in America ' s economic vandalism . will the Minister set out how US tariff may affect the UK economy and what preparation be be make as a result , and do he agree that british job be on the line and that business and worker want to see the Government stand up for they ? to give a sense of quantum to the House , about £ 400 million - worth of UK steel export go to the United States . that represent , if I recollect accurately , about 10 % of UK production , so the hon . Gentleman be entirely right to recognise that this be a significant moment . [ Official Report , 12 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) we take that very seriously , which be why we be engage in dialogue with both the workforce and the owner of the various steel producer here in the United Kingdom . more broadly , as my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) allude to , we want to avoid a significant escalation . we see retaliatory measure take under the first Trump Administration . it feel to I that this be an opportunity for the UK to exercise a cool head and a clear - eyed sense of where the national interest lie . these tariff will not be impose until 12 March , which give we time to undertake the dialogue that be already under way , to reach a judgment on the basis of the analysis that we have already do , and to ensure that our interlocuter in Washington and elsewhere be engage in a constructive and mature dialogue . it be quite evident that tariff will have a negative impact on the UK economy . among all the palaver in the imposition of tariff , the impact on worker — on their job and livelihood — be often forget . in formulate a response to the propose tariff , I ask that we work closely with trade union representative to ensure that the worker be not forget in all of this . I be happy to give that assurance . I should probably declare an interest as a member of the Community trade union . I can assure the House that trade union — whether Community , the GMB , Unite or the other representative of steelworker — have be a central part of the dialogue that we start in July . frankly , we inherit a situation in which there have be significant under - investment in steel capability in the United Kingdom for many year . we be back up that commitment to dialogue with an act of commitment to public fund , and we be do so in dialogue with the workforce as well as with the company themselves . the Minister be quite right that we do not want a knee - jerk reaction , but I gently point out to he that this announcement should not have come as a surprise , bear in mind the President ' s comment both before and after the inauguration . many of my constituent who work at the Scunthorpe steelwork already face an uncertain future , and this will just increase their concern . can the Minister give an assurance that he will report back to the House as soon as possible about the meeting that will take place over the next day or two ? there be plenty of opportunity for Ministers to be hold accountable in relation to the dialogue that we have start , and that we continue , with steel producer in the United Kingdom . turn to the hon . Gentleman ' s initial point about whether this announcement have come as a surprise , candidly , it have not . however , it be also fair to recognise that the new President have a speciality in generate uncertainty — part of his style of negotiation be create uncertainty as to what will happen next . as I seek to suggest in my opening answer , we have answer on steel today , but the proclamation that emerge overnight do not give we answer on aluminium . in those circumstance , it be right and reasonable to be mindful of the statement that have be make , which I can assure the House that we be , and to undertake analysis , which I can assure the House we be also continue to review and reach a judgment on . at the same time , we should recognise that the date on which these tariff come into effect be 12 March . as a consequence , there be a window of opportunity to not only engage with the workforce and the company to ensure that we well understand exactly what they be look for in light of these specific measure , but critically , to engage directly with the Trump Administration . that be work to which our ambassador be already turn his mind . let we not forget that steel be a strategically important industry , both for our economy and our national security , and if other country be go to be protect their steel industry , our Government must not be afraid to make the big fiscal choice require to protect our own . will the Minister assure the House that respond to these tariff will be a priority for this government , as will put the industry on a sure footing in the year ahead ? in term of be willing to make the big fiscal choice , we have commit £ 2 . 5 billion of public money since July to support the steel industry , with resource be funnel in part through the national wealth fund . I can assure my hon . friend that we have already be willing to put money , as well as commitment , behind the steel industry . he be absolutely right to recognise the strategic significance of this industry , not just on its own term but much more broadly to the manufacturing capability of the United Kingdom . he have allude to the risk of trade diversion , give the potential remedial action take by other trading bloc , so I also want to assure he that we have protection that will remain in place until 2026 . there be safeguard in place in relation to trade diversion , as well as the UK ' s ability to act independently . I have listen very carefully to what have be say this morning . we have know since November that this be come , even though the press be say that we would somehow get a special relationship . what be clear today be that Trump show strength towards country that be in a position of weakness , which be where the UK currently be . be it not now time for this government to think very seriously about be back in the EU , where there be strength against strength through the custom union and the single market ? we do not know what else be come down the line , and scottish business need to know the future — it could be whisky , it could be fish or it could be manufacture . can the Minister give we some assurance about how he will stand up to the strength of global protectionism ? in term of an understanding of scottish business , again I should probably declare an interest , give that the Glenkinchie distillery be in the Lothian East constituency . only this morning , I meet with Chivas Regal and Diageo , so I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I be fully aware . certainly , no one party should claim to speak for Scotland , or for Scotland ' s business . as for the United Kingdom ' s departure from the European Union , it be no secret that I be a remain campaigner and want the United Kingdom to stay within the European Union in 2016 . I would gently point out to the hon . Gentleman that have his party be successful in its endeavour to break up the United Kingdom in 2014 , the direct and immediate consequence of that choice would have be Scotland ' s departure from the European Union . in his response , the Minister mention the previous Conservative Government ' s neglect of the steel industry — it be allow to decline to a size small than the industry in Belgium . do he agree that the UK ' s market present a great commercial opportunity for investment in steel , and that through this Government ' s steel strategy , we have the opportunity to attract that investment to the UK ? I be very happy to give my hon . friend the assurance that he seek . we have a comprehensive plan for steel , which , sadly , we have not have in this country for a number of year . that plan be back up by significant public resource , which again be not available under the previous Government , and we look forward to publish a comprehensive strategy for steel in the spring of this year . if President Trump offer to cancel the tariff on steel import in return for the UK throw the appalling Chagos giveaway deal in the dustbin , would the Government agree ? tempt though it be to indulge in the hypothetical negotiating strategy ventriloquise through the right hon . Gentleman , consistent with the approach that we need to take a consider view of what be emerge — and be still emerge , in the case of aluminium — the responsible thing to do be leave those matter with the good office of the UK ' s ambassador to the United States and the Foreign Secretary . the reality be that country across the globe be move towards a protectionist model , while at the same time we be still import 68 % of the steel we need . there be clearly an opportunity here for the UK . next year , our steel safeguard come to an end , at the same time as the EU introduce its carbon border adjustment mechanism tariff protection . do the Minister agree that we have to move at pace to replace those protection and back our steel industry in the same way that other country be choose to ? I can assure the House that we be determined to back our steel sector . the Minister for Industry will be at Sheffield Forgemasters tomorrow ; as I say , she be meet representative of the steel industry today , and the Secretary of State will be meet representative over the next 24 hour . we have establish a steel council and a comprehensive plan for steel , we have commit significant public resource , and we will publish a comprehensive strategy in the spring of this year . we take steel seriously , which , sadly , be not the case for our predecessor . it be no secret that President Trump love tariff and intend to use they , and the Minister be come across as a little complacent in his approach . can he clarify whether any discussion have take place with the Administration about continue tariff - free quota for british steel since the inauguration ? presumably , the Prime Minister do not raise that matter during his call . do the Minister also concur that agree such protection be make hard by this Government ' s failure to commit to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence ? it be a matter of public record that the Prime Minister have have a couple of warm exchange with the incoming President - elect of the United States , which I think be entirely right and appropriate . we now have a new UK ambassador , and I pay due tribute to the work of Karen Pierce , his predecessor , who do an exemplary job on behalf of the United Kingdom during the period of transition . it remain an indisputable fact , however , that Howard Lutnick be not yet in office as the US Commerce Secretary , and that Jamieson Greer be not in place as the US trade representative . those be the individual through whom these dialogue be normally conduct . I echo Labour Members ' support for steel as a nationally important infrastructure industry that we must protect in this country . far to the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) and of my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee — who be no long in the Chamber — I also agree that we must try to avoid escalation . part of that be about our relationship with Europe , which be our large market for export steel after America , so can the Minister update we on what conversation he have have with his european counterpart ? this issue of CBAM be absolutely critical to the british steel industry , which be on its knee after 15 year of a Conservative Government who fail to see its value . will he also reassure we that the resolution of the emission trading scheme be still on the agenda for the May talk with Europe ? I can assure my hon . friend that we be work on that EU reset , and continue to work on it , through the good office of my new colleague in the Cabinet Office . one element of that reset be look at those linkage and how they can work effectively , and the level of engagement in relation to that reset be significantly ramp up . again , frankly , there have to be almost confidence - build measure establish after the deep betrayal of trust that be feel by our european friend , neighbour and ally — let we remember that a previous conservative Prime Minister could not even bring herself to acknowledge President Macron as a friend and ally of the United Kingdom . in that sense , we have build the relationship , we have establish trust , and we be look forward with a clear - head sense of national interest to the reset talk that be get under way this year . the threat to the UK steel industry be not tariff from the US , but the cost of our electricity . the Business Secretary have previously agree with I that that be what make our steel industry uncompetitive , and it be why import have grow from 55 % to some 70 % in the last couple of year . so will the new steel strategy , due in the next few week , confirm how we will get down the electricity price in this country to make our industry competitive ? I think the difficulty with the point the hon . Gentleman make — and I appreciate his constituency interest and the broad interest of Lincolnshire in this — be that other factor need to be recognise and address in the steel strategy . there be again , for example , the indisputable fact that we inherit blast furnace that be increasingly out of date relative to technology be use elsewhere . there have also be year of neglect in a number of plant in which there be a significant need for both public and private investment . so I respectfully hear the point that the hon . Gentleman make about electricity price and general power generation price in the United Kingdom . the challenge of energy price be not unique to the United Kingdom , but be feel across the whole of the continent of Europe . however , there be other factor that we be go to have to address as part of a comprehensive plan for steel . I commend the Minister and the Government for their work on the steel strategy so far , but these be anxious time . british steel be a byword for british pride in our community , job and the product we produce . I be worried not just about the export , but about some of the steel dumping , on which we have have conversation , give our need to get grow as an economy . do the Minister recognise not just that this be an issue for the community that many hon . member represent , but that it be an issue of national pride in place such as Peterborough and the country as a whole that we get this right ? my hon . friend be a doughty defender of the interest of Peterborough and of his constituent , and he be right to recognise that pride in steel making extend beyond Port Talbot , Scunthorpe , historically Motherwell and other location of significant steel capability . on the specific point he raise , of course there remain a residual power available to individual company under the Trade Remedies Authority to take action on dumping perceive to be happen . however , I reassure the House that the UK ' s steel safeguard do and will remain in place until the end of June 2026 , and I hope that offer he some comfort . the attack on the last Conservative Government might carry more weight if this Government be not plan to equalise our carbon price with the european carbon price , but that be by the by . give the conduct of China over the year , measure to hold down production cost in other country and now President Trump ' s tariff , will the Minister accept that , if international free trade be not always a myth , it certainly be dead today , and will he commit to abandon the theory and policy that follow his logic ? comparative advantage be use as intellectual cover for outsource production job and prosperity to country that cheat the system . so can we see some trade realism and a strategy — a real strategy — to cut industrial energy cost , keep we make virgin steel , and get we manufacture and export more ? if the hon . Gentleman have an appetite for trade realism , let we get real : the Prime Minister for whom he work fail to do a US - UK trade deal . let we also get real about the fact that the central underpinning of the party of which he be a member at the time of the Brexit referendum — that we be in a less protectionist world , that we would have a function World Trade Organisation system and , indeed , that we would have major trading bloc seek to take barrier down rather than put barrier up — have all be misplace . his leader , the now Leader of the Opposition , generously concede a couple of week ago that there be no growth plan follow the United Kingdom ' s exit from the EU . it be for this Government to clean up the mess that his government leave . under WTO rule , any country can impose tariff when it believe there be unfair subsidy of the export present by the other country , but so far I have not hear America put forward any argument that there be unfair subsidy of our steel industry . what discussion be the Minister have with the WTO about this ? I can assure my hon . friend that we be in regular dialogue with the WTO . I be in touch only this morning with Simon Manley , our exemplary british ambassador in Geneva . we be also very clear at an early stage — since July — that we be back Ngozi Okonjo - Iweala as the next director general of the WTO . I have the great privilege of work with Ngozi when I be the UK governor of the World Bank during a previous era of Labour Government . the UK be commit to stand behind her exemplary leadership of the WTO at an admittedly very challenging time for global trade . to use football parlance , President Trump be play a blinder with his tariff strategy . Canada , Mexico and Colombia all fall into line when he threaten tariff . only the EU be foolishly say that it want to go toe to toe with he . can the Minister assure we that our Government , use our Brexit freedom , will put Britain first when it come to this issue , and that we will not side with the EU , but will work with the American Administration to protect british job and british industry ? while I may not agree with that characterisation of the efficacy of the US President ' s action in recent week , it be a matter of record that we stand ready to work with the United States to broaden and deepen our trading and economic relationship . we be significant investor in each other ' s country , and that trading relationship matter . the previous Government abjectly fail to secure the trade deal that they promise — the big promise at the time of the Brexit referendum — but with a clear sense of the national interest , and a willingness to engage with open mind , we be ready to have this conversation with the United States . I thank the Minister very much for his answer . the time be come , and I hope we will have well news for the future . President Trump have be very clear that he wish to work with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and to build on the friendship that already exist , but he be also clear that America come first . he be a businessman , and we have to acknowledge that . what consideration have be give to address the tariff issue with he , and to secure a deal for our business ? he have make it clear that he be prepared to give and take , and we have much to offer in this very special relationship that we both savour . if one observe the comment make by the Chancellor last night , or by the incoming british ambassador in Washington , it be clear that we be ready to engage in a thoughtful , pragmatic way with the new Administration in Washington , and we want to broaden and deepen the trading relationship . I observe that under the first trump presidency , bilateral trade between the United States and the United Kingdom increase , and we have ambition to see that continue . I thank the Minister for his response . Nurse ( Use of Title ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the use of the title of nurse ; and for connected purpose . I thank the Minister for Secondary Care for be here for this debate . I thank the incredible # ProtectNurse campaign , lead by Professor Alison Leary MBE and Paul Trevatt , as well as nursing organisation , such as the Queen ' s Nursing Institute and the Institute of Health Visiting , and charity . I also thank Unison Health , Unite , the Royal College of Nursing ' s professional nursing committee , and the many other people and group who be support this change . I be honour to have work on this for many year . my Bill be about protect the public and respect the training , qualification and experience of register nurse . I be sure it will come as a shock to many people here and watch this that anyone can call themselves a nurse . they can print out a business card and start work , and it would be fine — that be currently legal . even those who have be strike off the Nursing and Midwifery Council register for serious misconduct or those who have a criminal conviction can continue call themselves a nurse . that be unacceptable , and actually quite dangerous . when we hear " nurse " , we automatically think of somebody who be qualified . I be sure we have all do it : somebody say they be a nurse , and we say , " can you look at this rash for I ? " , or " I ' m feel a bit of pain in my left side , " and we start give personal information . we trust they because we trust the title of nurse . it be about time that we show the nursing community just how much we value and appreciate their qualification , because we know how important nurse be in society . we clap for they during covid . they be on the frontline , and they save many people ' s live , so this change be well overdue . when I think about nurse , I also think about my cancer nurse , Aimee , and how amazing and special she be . this Bill and this campaign be also a tribute to she . in 2021 , I table an amendment to the Health and Care Bill that receive the support of 240 mp — an enormous number . we think we would get the amendment over the line , but it be a shame that the last Conservative Government use their majority to vote it down . now that we have a Labour Government , I be hopeful and confident that we can amend the law to protect the title of nurse . at the end of the day , the first role of a Government be to protect their citizen , and my Bill would go some way to do that . a freedom of information request by Nursing Standard find that across 93 % of all NHS trust , there be more than 8 , 000 people with the term " nurse " in their job title who in fact have no register nursing qualification . that be worry , and the number be incredible . we know the problem , so what be the solution ? it be clear : the simple way to rectify this issue be to amend the Professional Qualifications Act 2022 by add " nurse " to " register nurse " , a term that be already regulate by the Nursing and Midwifery Council , so this would not need to be part of regulatory reform . that be all we have to do . we have do a lot of work and research with lot of professional , and importantly my Bill will recognise exist and protect title , such as veterinary nurse and dental nurse , which would not be affect . the Royal College of Nursing pass a resolution in favour of protect the " nurse " title at its congress in 2022 . those in the profession know exactly what must be do , and we can not wait any long to do it , because we know how dangerous the current situation can be for patient . Cassandra Grant , 39 , be a dangerous fantasist who pose as a nurse at the Blenheim Palace horse trial . she be jail for four year . she be involve in inject an injure rider . she repeatedly lie about have medical and mental health qualification , and the judge say it make his " blood run cold " to think of Grant " get her hand on a patient " . Kate Shemirani be a nurse who claim that 5 g cause covid symptom and spread vaccine misinformation . she be strike off , but she be still legally able to call herself a nurse . Lee Woods , a 28 - year - old man , be arrest and charge in connection with impersonate a member of the nursing staff at Queen Elizabeth University hospital in Glasgow . unfortunately , I could go on list case where the title of nurse have be exploit in this way , so it be important that we legislate . build on the hard work of the # ProtectNurse campaign , I hope that the Labour Government can improve the legislation . since take office , the Labour Government have make great stride on rebuild our NHS , after 14 year of consistent neglect . I urge the Government to support my Bill as part of their vital package of reform , and to help bring about this simple , common - sense and long - overdue change for nurse and patient . it be overwhelmingly back by those in the profession . give the grow public concern , now be the time for this change . I be first elect to this House in 2005 — it seem like a lifetime ago — and I be here to represent my constituent of Brent East . thank to all the boundary change , it be Brent South , then Brent Central , and be now Brent East . this be a most important piece of legislation . it can change everybody ' s life . it let nurse know that we appreciate they , and allow patient to have confidence in people who call themselves a nurse . it be a simple and easy step . question put and agree to . order , that Dawn Butler , Paulette Hamilton , Tulip Siddiq , Mrs Sharon Hodgson , Barry Gardiner , Juliet Campbell and Clive Lewis present the Bill . Dawn Butler accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March , and to be print ( Bill 182 ) . water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] for the purpose of supplement the order of 16 December 2024 ( Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) : consideration of Lords Message ( 1 ) proceeding on the Lords Message shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Lords message I confirm that nothing in the Lords message engage Commons financial privilege . clause 1 - Rules about remuneration and governance I beg to move , that this House insist on Commons Amendment 1 to which the Lords have disagree , disagree to Lords Amendment 1B , to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords ' disagreement to Commons Amendment 1 , and propose amendment ( a ) and ( b ) to the Bill in lieu of the word leave out by Commons Amendment 1 . with this , it will be convenient to consider the follow Government motion : that this House insist on Commons Amendment 2 to which the Lords have disagree , and propose Amendment ( a ) in lieu of the word so leave out . I be delighted to have another opportunity to debate this transformative Bill in this Chamber . I thank all member for continue to take an interest in this important piece of legislation , which demonstrate our share commitment to improve the water sector . today , this House will consider amendment make in the other place . I recognise that there be huge interest across this House in wide issue relate to water . though our debate today be solely focused on the change make to the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill in the other place during the Lords ' consideration of Commons amendment on 5 February , I look forward to future opportunity to discuss wide concern and action , for example through work relate to the independent commission . I turn first to the change make in the other place that would require water company to regularly report to Ofwat on their financial structure , and to ensure that that information could be readily access and understand by the public . it be important to highlight that water company be already require under their licence to publish by a set date financial performance metric within their annual performance report . that include the interest on their borrowing , their financial flow and an analysis of their debt . if water company do not comply with these licence condition , Ofwat can take enforcement action , include issue fine . however , the Government recognise that there be an opportunity to make financial datum more accessible for member of the public . the Government have therefore work at pace with Lord Cromwell and Ofwat to develop a way to achieve our share objective of improve the transparency and accessibility of report on key financial metric . the insertion of a new section 35e into the Water Industry Act 1991 will make it clear that water company should provide an intelligible overview of their financial position at least once a year . that overview should include a summary of the significant change that have take place over the past 12 month , and will cover key aspect of water company ' financial position , such as their share capital and debt . Ofwat have say that it believe that the right level of debt should be 60 % , yet it have take no action against those company whose level of debt have rise to as much as 80 % . can the Minister assure we that under the Bill , Ofwat will not only have the power to act when company ' debt level be too high , but will use it ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I know how much he care about this and many environmental issue . amendment ( a ) refer only to the reporting arrangement for level of debt rather than specify the level of debt that would be acceptable . it be about increase transparency , whereas his point fall more into the remit of the water commission , which be look at all those issue as part of its wide work . I stress that the amendment be just about how information be report and transparency . the information must be make available in a prominent place on the water company ' s website , ensure accessibility for member of the public . subsection ( 4 ) of propose new section 35e also provide Ofwat with the power to determine the information that a water company must publish , as well as the ability to review requirement on financial reporting from time to time . that addition will ensure that reporting requirement keep pace with change in the expectation and need of bill payer . I would like to be clear , however , that the Government expect the power to be use to ensure that reporting requirement remain relevant , rather than to dilute or diminish the ambition of reporting requirement . financial reporting will also continue to be underpin by pre - exist statutory obligation and licence condition . in line with other requirement bring forward in clause 1 , this new requirement will commence on Royal Assent . these amendment will help to rebuild public trust in the sector and provide the public with the level of openness and transparency that they deserve . I turn to the other Government amendment , which relate to the requirement for Ofwat ' s rule to be confirm by way of affirmative statutory instrument , as reintroduce by the motion table by Lord Blencathra in the other place . while the Government recognise that there be call in the other place for increase parliamentary oversight of Ofwat ' s rule , we have significant concern that a requirement for Ofwat ' s rule to be finalise through an affirmative statutory instrument would delay the rule be implement . we be clear that Ofwat ' s rule should be bring forward as soon as possible . that will ensure swift and meaningful improvement in the performance and culture of water company as they begin to deliver on the large investment package in the history of the water sector . require the rule to be confirm by statutory instrument would risk delay to the rule come into force . we also maintain concern that the Lords amendment would compromise the independence of Ofwat , because they would require Ofwat ' s rule to be confirm through legislation prepare by the Government . that independence must be protect if we be to ensure investor confidence in the water sector . the Government be confident that the Bill already provide for sufficient scrutiny of Ofwat ' s rule as it be require to conduct a statutory consultation on the rule before they be finalise . separately , Ofwat have already conclude an initial policy consultation on a draft of the rule and how they will apply . it receive 11 , 700 response on the rule through its consultation , which it be actively consider . as such , the Government be seek to reverse the requirement and to introduce provision in its place that will require Ofwat to provide its first set of rule in draft to the Secretary of State at least seven day before they be issue . I hope that hon . member across the House will support that change , which will ensure that Ofwat ' s rule be put into place as soon as possible follow Royal Assent , in addition to the Government ' s amendment to introduce new financial reporting requirement . it be a great pleasure to speak in this final stage of the Bill . before I start my remark , I will respond to the pertinent question about level of borrow for water company ask by my friend and former colleague on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) . the Minister be right that Government amendment ( a ) be about report rather than the level of borrowing . it be regrettable that the Government choose to reject the conservative amendment in Committee that would have allow the Secretary of State to set the amount of borrowing for water company . I hope that , as we move towards Cunliffe review , the Government may look at that again so that we can have tight control on the water company and their level of debt . before I make my remark on the Lords message , I will say that get to the Bill to this stage have be the result of much hard work across this House and the other place . I thank everyone , both front of house and behind the scene , who have work hard to get we here . that include : the Minister for her willingness to listen to those across the House throughout the Bill ' s passage ; similarly , her counterpart in the other place , Baroness Hayman ; those who have work to draft the Bill and amendment ; the Bill Committee ; parliamentary staff from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs ; and campaign group and stakeholder who provide their insight to the Committee to help make the Bill even strong , not least the Conservative Environment Network , the Angling Trust , and the Wildlife and Countryside Link . sadly , however , as the opposition have stress throughout the Bill ' s passage in this House and the other place , this final stage of the Bill risk be yet another miss opportunity to act holistically on this important issue . it be unfortunate that the Government have be unwilling to go much far than their copy - and - paste approach , reboot measure that the Conservatives take in government to address this issue . we hear in previous stage how the ban on bonus for water company chief executive and ensure that 100 % of storm overflow be monitor — up from 7 % under Labour — be introduce by the previous Conservative Government . none the less , ever the optimist , I come to the Chamber hope that the Government might be willing to reconsider their position on the issue of the amendment and the reasoning from the other place , which cover familiar ground . we debate these issue in the previous stage , not only in this House but in the other place . at the heart of the Lords amendment be a theme that his Majesty ' s most loyal opposition have emphasise throughout the Bill ' s passage : accountability . the previous lack of accountability for water company create many of the issue that the water industry have face . the Conservatives in government and now this Government have attempt to try and address that . this be another chance for the Government to go even far and inject some of what be really need into their approach . I turn to Lords amendment 1b , which reverse the Government ' s decision to remove measure from the Bill that would require financial reporting to be collect by Ofwat for its remuneration guidance . we know that one of the most worrying aspect of our water industry have be its financial resilience , as Ofwat ' s " monitor financial resilience " report back in November make clear , with 10 company at need of increase monitoring and three in the high category of risk , with close monitoring require at a more senior level with Ofwat . we all know , too , the case involve specific water company and the real risk that financial mismanagement bring for the survival of those company and the water provision that their consumer rely on . it be disappointing , therefore , that the Government have be unwilling throughout the Bill ' s passage to accept conservative amendment , or Cross - Bench amendment such as this one by Lord Cromwell , offer in a constructive spirit , which may have go some way to address the issue . none the less , the opposition truly want to see well financial resilience . therefore , on financial reporting in particular , we want the Government to accept this as a reasonable step to regain accountability on financial resilience . the Lords amendment to clause 1 would quite simply mean that , when it come to financial reporting , there would be nowhere to hide for water company and the decision they make in this area . I note that , follow the Lords ' rejection of Commons amendment 1 , the Government have table amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 1b , which will go some way to improve the financial transparency of water company , as a formal concession to Lords amendment 1b . subsection ( 4 ) of Government amendment ( a ) state that what water company must publish should be decide " from time to time " . I hope the Minister can see that such vagueness might be a problem move forward , as " from time to time " could allow the regulator not to review when the need arise , because it have do so a few year prior or even long ago , and justify that by argue that it be do so " from time to time " , as the law outline . even if nothing or little would need change from year to year , or every few year , surely it would be well to require this at least to be review at precise regular interval so that the most valuable information be provide in the good possible format . that aside , however , his Majesty ' s most loyal opposition acknowledge the Government ' s concession on financial transparency , and indeed public access , include characteristic of capital and debt . we be pleased to see that addition to the Bill . in the same spirit , I move on to Lords reason 2A to disagree with Commons amendment 2 , which urge this House to consider again the requirement that any rule under clause 1 be bring into force by mean of a statutory instrument from the Secretary of State . again , this amendment be familiar territory that we have debate at many stage , have be a measure consistently call for by his Majesty ' s Opposition in the other place and in this House , both in the Chamber and in Committee . we have maintain throughout that accountability be need to deliver and enforce change in the water industry , but that must include the Government of the day , no matter which party they be . it be odd that , on the one hand , this Government have claim that they want a tight grip on water company , while on the other , they consistently oppose a measure that would allow they to do exactly that . it be odd , too , that in Committee , the Liberal Democrats seek to amend the same part of the Bill that would have that effect . their intention be to bring in guidance as soon as possible , but there be a distinction between intent and effect . remove some of the same line would have have the same exact effect in rid the Bill of the statutory instrument requirement that this amendment seek to maintain . the Government have argue — as the Minister have again today — that they fear that Ofwat ' s flexibility to adapt their rule as necessary could be impede in some way . but statutory instrument remain a timely measure to introduce any change if need . so once again , the Government ' s argument do not stack up . it be only right that we , as parliamentarian elect by the british public to represent their interest with our voice and vote , be able to look at the propose rule and exercise our ability to voice concern if they risk fall short of protect the public ' s interest . why deny the public and member of this House the ability to uphold accountability of the water industry , which have be miss for too long ? as such , once again we have urge the Government to accept what we believe be a reasonable set of amendment in the name of accountability . now , at the 11th hour , the Government have table Government amendment ( a ) in lieu of Lords reason 2A that disagree with Commons amendment 2 , the amendment table and argue for by my conservative friend in the other place the noble Lord Roborough and Lord Blencathra , and add that the remuneration and governance rule may not be not be enact until they have be provide in draft to the Secretary of State . there be a move towards some Government accountability , but sadly , not what the opposition have want : a statutory instrument lay by the Secretary of State and approve by both Houses . none the less , I be grateful that the Government have listen to Lord Roborough , I and the other conservative colleague who have argue for more accountability , and that they have move a little towards we with this amendment . however , I be still unclear why the Government appear scared of full accountability . sadly , I fear that some of these last - minute concession , which we would like to go far , look like the Government try to avoid double insistence and the Bill fail . we do not wish the Bill to fail , as we all want the same thing : to see our water improve and for the Government to continue with the measure that the Conservatives set in train in the last Parliament . in that spirit , we will not stand in the way of the Government ' s amendment . there have be many a chance for the Government to grab opportunity to bolster the Bill with both hand . many chance have be miss throughout its passage , not least by the Government continually reject our water restoration fund to ringfence fine to restore local waterway , rather than to balance the Treasury ' s book . they do not accept our sensible proposal to go far with nature - base solution to flood risk . they reject our proposal for fine on water company to result in equivalent reduction in customer ’ bill , and our sensible proposal to allow the Secretary of State to place limit on the amount that water company can borrow . they block our proposal to protect consumer in different part of the country from pay for fail water company that do not supply they . as the Bill progress and the Cunliffe review begin , I again urge the Government , for the sake of our water , environment , constituent , community and , indeed , fairness , not to let political pride and dogma stand in the way of do the right thing and make water legislation the good it can be . we wish the Bill well as it end its journey in this House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure to be back talk about the Bill again . in Committee and on Report , the Liberal Democrats put down a grand total of 56 amendment . what be two more ? we believe , as the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) say , that this Bill be a good thing , and we wish to see it on the statute book , but we do not feel it go far enough , and the two amendment before we today give we the opportunity to consider it a little more . through amendment ( a ) the Government want to introduce financial reporting requirement for water company . the report , to be require once a year , should be a concise , intelligible and up - to - date overview of the financial position of each undertaker — a water company — include information on share capital and debt , and any significant change that may have happen in the past 12 month or expect change in the 12 month to come . we very much welcome the amendment . we table many similar amendment that contain aspect of those proposal , both in Committee and on Report . we be bind to say that they be well amendment — more ambitious and far reaching — but as with much of this Bill , these proposal be a decent start and we do not want to stand in their way . to clarify , we have propose a variety of amendment to the Bill up to this point , include call for Ofwat to be make responsible for the financial stability duty on water company . we call for the banning of bonus for water company boss whose company be perform poorly , and not just on environmental duty but on financial stability and water quality . on the Floor of the House we push to a vote , with the permission of the Chair , a ban on water company make customer pay for their debt at the point of bankruptcy , and instead for investor , who have take risk , to pay for they . that be right , and we be disappoint that the Government vote against it and the Conservatives sit on their hand and do not support bill payer . this be an important and live issue . in Westmorland in the north - west of England , 11 % of bill pay only service the debt of United Utilities , yet in other part of the country such as the area serve by Thames Water , that figure be around 35 % or potentially even more . we have call for scrutiny not just of the finance of water company but of other area . the Bill have move thing in the right direction , but not radically enough . in Committee , we seek to encourage and persuade Labour and Conservative Front Benchers — without success — that it would be wise to have environmental expert on the board of water company . on the Government ' s laudable and positive move towards a live database that citizen scientist can scrutinise , we ask that it also be a historical database that be searchable in retrospect . wonderful organisation in my constituency , which be replicate around the country , such as the Eden Rivers Trust , the South Cumbria Rivers Trust , the Clean River Kent campaign and Save Windermere , would monitor that database , but unless they look at it 24 / 7 and do nothing else in their life , some thing may get past they . for example , between 2021 and 2023 , 120 million litre of sewage be pump into Windermere lake without United Utilities report it . we be reliant on citizen scientist know about this stuff , and a great database will do the job only if it be searchable in retrospect . scrutiny and transparency on finance and environmental matter be vital . we be satisfied that amendment ( a ) provide increase transparency on water company finance , and therefore we will not make a nuisance of ourselves today . I turn to the second of the amendment in front of we . the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) rightly highlight and remind member of my distaste for not have stuff in the Bill , and how statutory instrument be not the good way of do thing . despite that , I be even more of a fan of ensure that we in this place can properly scrutinise those who be mean to be scrutinise our water company , namely Ofwat . throughout the passage of the Bill , liberal Democrats have make good , radical , environmentally minded proposal that be in the interest of our constituent and our waterway . although the Government have understandably stick to their gun and vote against we , the official Opposition have , oddly enough , abstain on pretty much everything — include , it would appear , on their own amendment today , for which we want to vote , notwithstanding all our reticence about not have important matter in the Bill . this amendment be propose in the other place by my former neighbour but one — not the hon . member for Epping Forest , who be also my former neighbour — the right hon . Lord Blencathra , a former Member for Penrith and the Border , and a very accomplished parliamentarian . in this amendment , he be seek to require increase parliamentary scrutiny of Ofwat when sign off on water company bonus . that issue be of huge concern to I , and , I think , to most people around this country — certainly in my constituency — because record bonus be be pay to senior executive around the country . the hon . Gentleman put forward a veritable smorgasbord of amendment in the Bill Committee , and all those issue be discuss . it be so important that Ofwat retain its independence . it be extremely relevant to point out , however , that during the coalition year and the 14 year the Conservatives be in government , no Bills be pass to ban water company bonus , and this Bill will do just that . the hon . Lady be right . previous government of all party have not tackle these issue as they should have do — include , of course , the previous Labour Government , under Gordon Brown and Tony Blair . there be no doubt whatsoever , however , that we be now look at a massively change situation . why do the public care so much more about this issue than five or six year ago ? it be because — I say this neutrally — we be in the European Union before then , and we have different level of scrutiny . it be also because this House go through the process of basically lift the bonnet to see what be already acceptable , at which point people in this place and around the country become utterly outraged at what be permissible . yes , party of all side bear a responsibility , and not least the party that privatise the industry in the first place and let the cat out of the bag . ofwat do need to be scrutinise ; that be what I find most frustrating . now that the UK be not in the European Union , our own regulation be not scrutinise from outside — so if we do not do it , who will ? we have hear many time of Ofwat ' s failure to scrutinise properly and hold to account the water company ; we hear on more than one occasion in Committee , as well as in this Chamber , of the £ 164 million in fine that Ofwat have levy against three water company , of which , four year on , it have collect precisely zero pound and zero penny . our argument throughout this process have be that Ofwat , despite contain many very good and valuable people who be work their hard , be nevertheless a regulator not fit for purpose . the amendment seek to force Ofwat to give six month ' notice of bonus it have sign off , rather than the seven day that the Government want , which be inadequate . I be slightly curious as to why , at the eleventh hour , the third party be now change its position . in the other place , when this amendment be push to a vote , the Liberal Democrats abstain on two occasion , but now they be play political game and actually risk the progress of the Bill . the amendment , as it state , be to introduce a statutory instrument to increase parliamentary scrutiny and accountability . the Government have move some way — although not as far as we would like — but the third party be now play political game , and risk the progress of a Bill that be try to improve the state of our water . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I can do math , so I know there be absolutely no threat whatsoever to the progress of this Bill — I know what the number will be , roughly , when and if we divide on this matter . I be not a late convert but an early convert — a convert long before the hon . Gentleman — to the importance of scrutiny . it be therefore important that we make this case : imperfect though this proposal be , it be far well for this House to be give six month ' notice of Ofwat ' s intention to allow bonus than seven day . that be surely well , and that be why we insist as we do . this be Parliament scrutinise Ofwat because of Ofwat ' s failure to scrutinise the water company . that be our simple point . it be why we have propose much more radical reform throughout this process , include the abolition of Ofwat altogether . it be not the fault of the people who work for the organisation specifically . when regulation of the water industry be fragment across part of Ofwat and other agency , which do not have the necessary power and resource , the water company will , of course , run ring around the regulator , and it be our constituent and our waterway — our lake , river and coastal area — that bear the brunt and suffer . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way again . he talk about a number of fantastic amendment the third party make in Committee , many of which be so poorly word that they be not actually worth vote on . his particular amendment about abolish Ofwat actually contain no suggestion as to what the third party would replace it with , or how much it would cost — it do . it do not . it do not set out how much it would cost or how long it would take . while we want Ofwat to have the tooth to hold water company to account , the third party propose get rid of it . again , be it the party of protest that be not offer any credible solution . well , first of all , if the hon . Gentleman have pay more attention , he would know that we propose a clean water authority , which would gather up all the power of Ofwat and the environmental and water regulatory power of the Environment Agency . I say this gently , but , again , there be a pattern here . both in opposition and in government , the conservative party show great level of fury and anger over Liberal Democrats campaign to clean up our waterway than over the fact that our waterway be full of poop in the first place . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I have already take two intervention from the hon . Gentleman , so I will not . my simple comment be that this Bill will do good , and we be supportive of it . we wish only to trouble the House a short time to ensure great scrutiny be bring in . we have accept throughout this process , with some reluctance , the Government ' s position that this be part 1 , and that part 2 be to come , and that the review lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe will potentially consider more radical action . we hope that be the case , and we shall engage with thing on that basis . I have in my hand some piece of paper that I propose to send to Jon Cunliffe , which tighten up some of the smorgasbord of amendment , as they have be call . we care deeply about our waterway . I be honour to represent the bulk of the English Lake district , with so many lake and river , as well as our coastal area in Morecambe bay . the quality of our waterway be deeply personal to I and to my community . we shall continue to campaign unashamedly for something far well for our constituent , and indeed for our water right across the United Kingdom . with the leave of the House , I thank all hon . member for their thoughtful and valuable contribution to today ' s debate . without step into the territory of a second reading debate , I suggest gently to the House that we be here today debate the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill precisely because of the public outrage cause by previous lack of investment , and the fact that every single river , lake and sea in our country have be pollute . have the previous Government , as state by the now official opposition , do the marvellous , wonderful job that they seem to want to suggest they do , there would not be the need for this Bill in the first place — neither would there be the need for all the campaign that have take place up and down the country . however , I will go no far into that . I have respect for the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , as he know . however , I say gently that it be dishonest to suggest that legislation be need for the water restoration fund , because , in fact , the Conservatives create the fund without legislation . to imply that legislation be require to have the fund would , therefore , be inadvertently dishonest . it be create without legislation , and therefore it do not need legislation to be hold . I be slightly concerned that the Minister be raise question about my honesty . the water restoration fund exist , but where be it now ? what have happen to it ? be the Government go to use it again ? that be why we want to push , at every stage of the Bill , the point that the water restoration fund need to be use to ringfence money so that fine on water company can be plough back into restore local waterway . I will be very happy if the Minister say today that the water restoration fund be carry on , and then my honesty will be intact . I thank the hon . Gentleman . as I have say throughout , he will have to wait and see , but to imply that legislation be require for the fund would be dishonest . I be sure the hon . Gentleman do not want his honesty to be question . the implication that legislation be require for the water restoration fund be simply not true . as I outline in my opening speech , I recognise that there remain a strong interest in issue wide than the scope of today ' s debate . I reiterate that the Bill be not the limit of our ambition . the Government will continue to work with hon . member across the House to discuss and make progress in address the fundamental issue face our water sector . the hon . Gentleman mention the word " time to time " . the wording have be specifically design to allow Ofwat to review requirement as and when appropriate , and adapt quickly where need . we do not want to pre - empt how often this kind of review might need to take place . to reassure he , that be discuss at length in the other place . on parliamentary scrutiny , the Government work with Ofwat to offer peer and mps an opportunity to raise question on Ofwat ' s rule in a parliamentary drop - in session , provide further insight on the rule . however , that proposal be not accept by hon . member ' colleague in the other place , which feel like a shame . it have always be our intention to bring about , through the Bill , meaningful change in the performance and culture of the water sector . the amendment table by the Government be in keep with that objective . I hope the House will support the Government amendment , which will ensure that the public can easily access an overview of water company financial information , and will give Ofwat a duty to issue rule on financial transparency that will commence on Royal Assent . together , the amendment will enable the Government to take another positive step forward in restore public trust in the water sector , which have sadly be destroy over the past 14 year . similarly , I hope the House will support the Government in bring forward amendment to ensure that Ofwat ' s rule be bring forward promptly and that its independence be protect . the Government acknowledge the intention behind the change make in the other place , but we can not accept the risk that they create in delay the introduction of Ofwat ' s rule . I therefore hope that member across the House will also support the Government in ensure that these vital rule be bring forward without delay . I be sure the Minister do not mean to imply that the shadow Minister be in any way dishonest , and she might perhaps seek to correct the record to say she feel that he be mistaken or incorrect . I be very happy to issue that correction . question put . a Division be call . division off . question agree to . resolve , that this House insist on Commons Amendment 1 to which the Lords have disagree , disagree to Lords Amendment 1B to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords ' disagreement to Commons Amendment 1 , and propose amendment ( a ) and ( b ) to the Bill in lieu of the word leave out by Commons Amendment 1 . motion make , and question put , that this House insist on Commons Amendment 2 to which the Lords have disagree , and propose amendment ( a ) in lieu of the word so leave out . — ( Keir Mather . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Kate Dearden Gerald Jones Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Andrew George Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Wendy Chamberlain Z ö e Franklin the House divide : Ayes 331 , Noes 65 . question accordingly agree to . arbitration Bill [ Lords ] consider in Committee [ Caroline Nokes in the Chair ] clause 1 - Law applicable to arbitration agreement Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider clause 2 to 18 stand part . may I remind member that in Committee , Members should not address the Chair as Deputy Speaker ? please use our name when address the Chair . Madam Chair , Chair , Madam Chairman or Mr Chairman be also acceptable . it be a pleasure to serve with you in the Chair , Ms Nokes . on account of the Bill ' s 18 clause be group together , I will speak to they in numerical order . I begin with clause 1 , which contain one of the Bill ' s key reform : provision for determine the govern law of an arbitration agreement . this be important because different governing law may give different answer to important question such as who be party to the agreement and whether the type of dispute be capable of be arbitrate . clause 1 will determine the govern law of the arbitration agreement by replace the common law approach establish in Enka v . Chubb with a new statutory rule . the law govern the arbitration agreement will be the law expressly choose by the party . otherwise , it will be the law of the seat . by way of simple illustration , if someone arbitrate in London , by default the applicable law would be english law . whereas the common law approach be complex and uncertain , the new approach in clause 1 be simple and predictable . it reduce the prospect of satellite litigation to determine govern law , which can be slow and costly . where the arbitration take place in London , as be the choice in so many international arbitration , by default the arbitration will be fully support by english law . for the avoidance of doubt , I would like to add that an express choice of law to govern the main contract rather than the arbitration agreement be not enough . clause 1 will not apply where the agreement be derive from stand offer of arbitration contain in treaty or foreign domestic legislation , as with investor - state arbitration , for example , as these be well underpin by international law and foreign domestic law respectively . clause 2 , 3 and 4 make provision in relation to the arbitral tribunal . clause 2 require an arbitrator to disclose circumstance that might reasonably give rise to justifiable doubt as to their impartiality . it will apply prior to the arbitrator ' s appointment , when they be be approach with a view to appointment . it will be a continue duty that also apply after their appointment . this codify the duty of disclosure recognise by the Supreme Court in its decision in Halliburton v . Chubb and will enhance trust in arbitration . clause 3 and 4 will reassure arbitrator that they can take the right decision in their proceeding without fear of reprisal from a disappointed party . clause 3 provide that an arbitrator will not be liable for the cost of an application to court for their removal unless the arbitrator have act in bad faith . clause 4 provide that an arbitrator ' s resignation do not give rise to any liability unless the resignation be show by a complainant to be unreasonable . clause 5 and 6 both concern jurisdiction . there be two way for a party to question the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal . one way be to wait until the tribunal have issue a ruling and then challenge that rule under section 67 of the Arbitration Act 1996 , which allow a challenge to an arbitral award on the basis that the tribunal lack jurisdiction . the other be be by invoke section 32 of that Act , which allow the court to decide whether the tribunal have jurisdiction as a preliminary point . clause 5 make clear that if the tribunal have already rule on its jurisdiction , any challenge must be bring through section 67 . clause 6 provide that where the arbitral tribunal or court rule that the tribunal have no jurisdiction , that tribunal can nevertheless award the cost of the arbitration proceeding up until that point . this will ensure that if a party wrongly start arbitration , they can still be hold responsible for the waste cost incur . clause 7 , 8 and 9 deal with arbitral proceeding and the power of the court . clause 7 will confer an express power on arbitrator to make an award on a summary basis — that is , adopt an expedite procedure — to dispose of an issue where an arbitrate party have no real prospect of succeed on that issue . this align with the summary judgment available in court proceeding and will deliver more efficient arbitration . this power can be exercise on application by any of the party . the procedure to be adopt be not prescribe . it will instead be a matter for the arbitrator to decide on a case by case basis after consult with the arbitrate party . clause 8 concern emergency arbitrator . arbitral rule sometimes provide a regime for the appointment of emergency arbitrator on an interim basis . such arbitrator can make order on urgent matter , such as the preservation of evidence , pende the constitution of the full arbitral tribunal . emergency arbitrator be not commonplace when the 1996 Act be draft , so it be important that we now expressly empower they . clause 8 will provide that fail to comply with an order make by the emergency arbitrator will have the same consequence as those for a normal arbitrator . clause 9 concern interim court power exercisable in support of arbitral proceeding . under section 44 of the 1996 Act , the court can make order in support of arbitration proceeding on certain matter — for example , the taking of witness evidence , the preservation of evidence , sale of good and interim injunction . clause 9 will amend section 44 to make it clear that such court order be also available against third party . for example , the court will be able to make an order preserve asset against a third party such as a bank . this will mirror the position in court proceeding . clause 10 , 11 and 12 concern power of the court in relation to an arbitral award . an arbitral tribunal can issue an award on whether it have jurisdiction , and it can issue an award on the merit of the dispute . either type of award can be challenge under section 67 of the Arbitration Act 1996 on the basis that the arbitral tribunal do not have jurisdiction . clause 10 will equip the court with the full suite of remedy for section 67 challenge . when the court have a jurisdiction challenge in front of it , it will have two new option : to declare the arbitral award to be of no effect , or to return the matter to the arbitral tribunal for consideration so that a revise award can be make . these remedy already exist for other challenge , for serious irregularity and for appeal on point of law , so this provision fix something of an inconsistency in the 1996 Act . clause 11 also amend section 67 of the 1996 Act . it will confer a power for rule of court to provide that , unless necessary in the interest of justice , there should be no new ground of objection and no new evidence put before the court unless it be not reasonably possible to put they before the tribunal . the amendment make to section 67 by clause 11 also provide that evidence take by an arbitral tribunal should not be reheard by the court . this will avoid these challenge from become full re - hearing , depart from the precedent set in the case of Dallah v . Pakistan . re - hearing can involve duplication of time and cost , and it can be unfair to allow a party who lose before the tribunal a complete rerun . clause 12 amend section 70 of the 1996 Act , which govern how arbitral award can be challenge before the court . it will clarify that the 28 - day time limit for such a challenge will start run only after any arbitral process of appeal or correction have conclude . clause 13 concern appeal from High Court decision and correct a rare drafting error in the 1996 Act . section 18 of the Senior Courts Act 1981 and section 35 of the Judicature ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1978 be amend by the 1996 Act . when read at face value , those section currently suggest that High Court decision make under the 1996 Act can be appeal to the Court of Appeal only if expressly permit in the 1996 Act . it be clear from what my hon . friend be say that the Bill be welcome by the legal sector . what engagement have he have with the legal sector and relevant stakeholder ? there have be massive engagement with party interested in this Bill . the Bill begin in the last Parliament , to which I be grateful for the work already do . it begin in the Lords , who engage fully with party at that stage . the Lords have have to restart the Bill in the new Parliament , so they have have two bite at the cherry , and all the feedback from stakeholder have be very positive . I thank my hon . friend for draw that out in this debate . when read at face value , section 18 of the Senior Courts Act 1981 and section 35 of the Judicature ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1978 currently suggest that High Court decision make under the 1996 Act can be appeal to the Court of Appeal only if expressly permit under that Act . however , the House of Lords judgment in Inco Europe v . first Choice distribution deem this to be an error . in that case , it be establish that appeal to the Court of Appeal under the 1996 Act be permit by default unless there be explicit provision to the contrary in that Act . clause 13 rectify the original drafting mistake to reflect the position establish in this case law . I turn now to clause 14 and 15 . the Bill refer to these as " miscellaneous minor amendment " . be that as it may , they offer a few important point of clarification and efficiency . clause 14 amend section 32 and 45 of the 1996 Act , which allow arbitrate party to apply for a preliminary court ruling on jurisdiction or a point of law . under clause 14 , such an application will require either the agreement of the party or the permission of the tribunal . it remove the further requirement to satisfy the court on a list of matter — in other word , it streamline the process . clause 15 will repeal section 85 and 97 of the Arbitration Act 1996 . these both relate to domestic arbitration provision , but neither be ever bring into force . clause 16 to 18 cover the administrative aspect of the Bill . clause 16 give the provision in the Bill the same extent as they have in the Arbitration Act 1996 , which mean that the Bill extend to England , Wales and Northern Ireland so that all three jurisdiction benefit from a modernised arbitral framework . civil justice be not devolve in Wales , but it be now a devolved matter in Northern Ireland . the requisite legislative consent motion be agree by the Northern Ireland Assembly on 9 December 2024 . we be grateful to the Northern Ireland Executive ' s Department of Justice for its support in this matter . for completeness , I note that Scotland have its own arbitration legislation , namely the Arbitration ( Scotland ) Act 2010 , which be not affect by this Bill . clause 17 make commencement provision so that the substantive provision of the Bill , namely clause 1 to 15 , will come into force " on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulation appoint . " finally , clause 18 establish the Bill ' s title once in force . I rise to contribute to the Committee stage debate on the Arbitration Bill on behalf of the Opposition . I thank Lord Bellamy , the previous Conservative Minister who originally introduce the Bill in the Lords in the previous Parliament , and I recognise the work of the Law Commission . much of this Bill be base on the excellent work that the Law Commission do in consider the original legal framework for arbitration . we fully support this Bill ' s objective of modernise and strengthen the UK ' s arbitration framework . arbitration be a vital pillar of our legal system , support business , individual and international commerce while reinforce London ' s position as a world - lead hub for dispute resolution . it be important that this legislation be as robust , effective and fair as possible . the Committee stage present an opportunity to ensure that the Bill deliver on its promise , and we welcome the improvement that it introduce . I do not intend to go through all the Bill ' s clause , but I reassure the House that the necessary scrutiny that one would expect from the Opposition in Committee be take place . I will just touch on some of the key clause . first , clause 1 provide welcome clarity on the govern law of arbitration agreement , particularly in light of the Enka v . Chubb case in 2020 . default to the law of the arbitration seat where no choice be specify increase certainty for business . secondly , clause 3 and 4 extend arbitrator immunity to protect they from liability unless bad faith be prove . this be an important step to ensure that arbitrator can act independently without undue fear of litigation . we must retain an effective safeguard to challenge an unreasonable resignation , and we welcome the Minister ' s reassurance that party affect by an arbitration resignation be not unfairly disadvantaged . thirdly , clause 5 and 6 streamline the process for jurisdictional challenge . party will either need to seek a preliminary ruling from the court under section 32 of the Arbitration Act 1996 , or wait to challenge jurisdiction under section 67 . fourthly , on the procedural innovation cover in clause 7 to 9 , the introduction of summary disposal of claim be an important step towards great efficiency , though we would welcome reassurance from the Government that they will monitor its use so that we can be sure that it be apply carefully and fairly , and do not have any unintended consequence . we believe that the recognition of emergency arbitrator be a positive step that enhance the availability of urgent relief , align the UK with international good practice . also of note be the right of appeal in clause 13 . as the Minister state , there be an unusual previous drafting issue that suggest that appeal to the Court of Appeal be permit only if expressly allow under the 1996 Act . that be incorrect . clause 13 correct the error , ensure that appeal be permit unless specifically restrict . this be a vital change to uphold fairness and legal certainty . I want to acknowledge an important issue that be raise in the other place by Lord Hacking , whose contribution to the discussion on arbitration have be incredibly valuable . I know that other member have also press for great scrutiny of how confidential arbitration could be misuse to conceal corruption . we welcome the Minister ' s assurance that arbitral institution be take step to mitigate those risk , and we believe that the Government must remain actively engage in monitor and address potential abuse , and not rule out take further action at an appropriate time if it become necessary . beyond the issue of corruption , other crucial area be mention in the other place ; these be important and warrant furth Government attention . they include the need for expedite hearing to prevent undue delay in arbitration proceeding , the role of third - party funding , and ensure transparency and accountability in funding arrangement , as well as the authority to mandate mediation between party , where appropriate , to encourage resolution outside of arbitration . the Minister ' s attention to these issue be essential , so I would welcome confirmation that they will be address in due course . in conclusion , the Arbitration Bill be a necessary and welcome step in ensure that the UK remain a pre - eminent jurisdiction for arbitration . however , as with any legislation , its success depend on the detail . the Opposition remain committed to ensure that the Bill deliver legal clarity , procedural efficiency and fairness while uphold the integrity of our arbitration framework . I commend this Bill to the Committee and look forward to see its rapid progress through the House . I rise in support of this Bill , which introduce important measure to modernise our arbitration framework . we liberal Democrats welcome the approach that the Government have take in refine the Bill ' s provision to ensure clarity and effectiveness . clause 1 be a key part of this new Bill , and we be fond of the change make follow the recommendation from the Special Public Bill Committee in the previous Parliament . for example , the Committee propose remove two word to prevent undue confusion , and I be pleased that the Government have accept that recommendation . in addition , the Government have far clarify that investor state arbitration agreement derive from treaty or non - UK legislation will not be subject to the default rule , which be a welcome and sensible step that be necessary to bring great legal clarity to the process . I also welcome the five amendment to clause 11 , which enable procedural reform under section 67 of the 1996 Act . these change respond directly to concern raise in the last Committee , and strike the right balance between efficiency and fairness in arbitration proceeding . further improvement be make in the other place , where the Government table amendment to clause 13 to correct drafting issue , which have be mention , and to ensure that access to the Court of Appeal align with establish case law . these amendment receive cross - party support and I be pleased to reinforce the Liberal Democrats ’ support for they today . this Bill strengthen the UK ' s arbitration framework by improve clarity , ensure fairness and refining procedure . we support its passage and urge the House to do the same . we do not expect any problem with that . I give my sincere thank to hon . and right hon . member on both side of the House for their contribution today to what have be a succinct and precise debate . we be all agree that this be an important step forward , and I be particularly grateful to the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , and the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , for welcome the improvement to the Bill and recognise that they have be the work of many people in the Lords and the Commons as well as of contributor from outside , as my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) remind we early . the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle raise the important issue of corruption . as I mention during the Bill ' s Second read debate , arbitral corruption be not the result of our domestic framework , which provide several effective remedy to quash corrupt practice . we support sector initiative to enhance anti - corruption practice such as the International Chamber of Commerce ' s anti - corruption taskforce , and we will push for the adoption of good practice as they be develop . the hon . Member also raise third party litigation and funding issue . the Government have carefully consider the impact of the UK Supreme Court judgment in Paccar , and have decide to wait for the outcome of the Civil Justice Council review before decide whether to legislate . a comprehensive review of the market will allow we to take a wide range of factor into account . follow the paccar judgment , concern have be raise about the need for great regulation of litigation funding agreement and great safeguard for claimant . this be therefore an opportune moment to review the status of the market . the review be be undertake by the Civil Justice Council , support by a wide consultation group of expert across this area . the final report and recommendation will be publish in the summer of 2025 , after which the Government will consider the way forward . the hon . Member also mention mandate mediation , and I will try to pick that up as well . the Government agree that dispute resolution , such as mediation , have a key role to play in end dispute more quickly and cheaply . this be why all party to a small money claim in the county court be now require to attend a free one - hour mediation appointment with his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service ' s small claim mediation service as an integrated step in the litigation journey . this reform will help thousand of people and business each year to resolve their legal dispute without the need for a court battle . we will continue to work to drive the uptake of dispute resolution throughout the justice system to allow party to resolve their dispute more consensually and at an early stage . that conclude my response to the point raise during the Committee of the whole House . I once again thank all those who have contribute to the debate . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 to 18 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . let I first thank all member of this House and the other place who have speak in support of this important Bill and the reform within it . I be particularly grateful for the support express on Second reading by the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , and for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) ; the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) have add his approval today as well . I be also grateful to all the hon . and right hon . member who contribute to this afternoon ' s Committee proceeding . it be encouraging to see enthusiasm on both side of the House for far improve our already world - lead arbitral framework , and for the business that those change will generate . I also thank the many noble Lords who have give this Bill and its predecessor in the last Parliament such thoughtful consideration . without their input and expertise , the Bill would not be so finely tune . I pay tribute to the former special Public Bill Committee , which marshal expert evidence from the sector , the judiciary and the world of academia . that Committee be ably and expertly lead by Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd . I be also grateful to all the other noble and learn Lords who have contribute to the passage of both Arbitration Bills in the other place , particularly Lord Hacking , Lord Wolfson of Tredegar , Lord Verdirame , Lord Beith , Lord Hoffmann , Lord Hope of Craighead and Lord Mance . I wish to give special mention to Lord Bellamy , who first introduce these important reform to Parliament as a Justice Minister under the previous Government . of course , we owe a debt of gratitude to the Law Commission for its exceptional work review the Arbitration Act 1996 and recommend the reform that be be take forward in the Bill . professor Sarah Green and her colleague at the commission have lead what can only be describe as a masterclass in public consultation and law reform . I particularly thank Dr Nathan Tamblyn for his work lead the commission ' s review , and for the support he give the Ministry of Justice in take forward this legislation . it be fair to say that no one know the Arbitration Bill well than Nathan . his contribution to this area of the law will , no doubt , have a long - last and positive effect . this Bill have greatly benefit from the input of expert and practitioner from across the arbitration community . their contribution be make both through the Law Commission consultation and during evidence - taking by the former Arbitration Bill ' s special Public Bill Committee . as have be recognise by both Houses , it be vital that our modernised arbitral law work effectively in practice . this have be make possible by the involvement of those who will use this legislation once it come into force . lastly , I put on record my thank to the official who have work on this Bill since it be introduce in the last Parliament . I thank the policy lead , Lee Pedder , the Bill manager , Iona Bonaventura , and Helen Hall from the Office of the parliamentary Counsel . I also thank my excellent private secretary , Gillian Atkinson . I conclude by highlight again the importance of this Bill for the arbitration sector and for UK economic growth more generally . we have a proud history of arbitration on these shore — a point that I cover in some detail on Second Reading . since the 1996 Act come into force almost 30 year ago , the UK have be the choose arbitral location for many thousand of dispute from across the world . this House can be confident that the modernisation in the Bill will enable our jurisdiction to continue play that vital role for many year . this be very much a growth Bill — a growth Bill from a growth Government . I therefore commend the Bill to the House . I join the Minister in his extensive and accurate list of thank , and particularly in his thank to Lord Bellamy , who introduce the original Bill , and to the Law Commission for its excellent work . the Minister also mention Lord Thomas , Lord Hacking and Lord Wolfson . I echo his comment on the effective role of the arbitration sector , and on the wealth that it bring to our economy because of its world - lead status and the certainty and confidence that it give business that they will get an excellent service on which they can rely . finally , like most member , I have have conversation with constituent who have say , " why can ' t you lot agree with each other more often ? when I turn on the tv , it seem that all you ever do be argue , " but we work together quite effectively on Delegated Legislation Committees and in other forum . this debate be an excellent example of we work collaboratively in the national interest in the main Chamber — an example that member might point their constituent towards . I thank everyone to whom the Minister rightly give recognition , particularly the behind - the - scene official whose work we do not often see , but without whom such landmark legislation would not be possible . the liberal Democrats welcome the Arbitration Bill , inasmuch as it represent a significant step forward in modernise and enhance the arbitration process in the UK . with over 5 , 000 arbitration a year in England and Wales , worth about £ 2 . 5 billion a year to the economy in fee alone , arbitration have long be a critical alternative to traditional court proceeding , provide a more efficient , cost - effective and flexible way to resolve dispute . one of the Bill ' s key merit be its effort to streamline the arbitration process , which can be complex and protract . by introduce these clear guideline and enhance the power of arbitrator , the Bill will help we to secure quick resolution , reduce delay and backlog in the justice system . this be crucial for business that seek fast and decisive outcome to dispute . of course , arbitration be part of a wide family of alternative dispute resolution that help to take pressure off our court . recognise this , I pay tribute to legal professional and firm in Eastbourne that work day in , day out , to facilitate many of these alternative dispute resolution , include Heringtons , Cramp & Mullaney , Hart Reade , Gaby Hardwicke , Stephen Rimmer , SO Legal , Hobson & Latham , Mayo Wynne Baxter , Lawson Lewis Blakers , Cornfield Law , McCarthy Webb — whose service I have use — and many more . we be pleased to support this Bill for the reason that I and many other member have discuss . it will ultimately help to position the UK as an attractive destination for global arbitration , reinforce its status as a lead centre for business and legal expertise , whether we be talk about the financial capital of the UK or the sunshine capital of the UK , Eastbourne , with its legal expertise , to which I have just allude . the Liberal Democrats be pleased to back this Bill , and I be proud to support it . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit — ( a ) notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 16 ( proceeding under an Act or on European Union document ) , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motions in the name of Secretary Jonathan Reynolds relate to term and Conditions of Employment not later than two hour after the start of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; ( b ) the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to Scrutiny of European Statutory Instruments not later than one hour after the start of proceeding on that Motion ; such Questions shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on these motion may continue , though oppose , until any hour , and may be enter upon after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Anna Turley . ) term and Conditions of Employment I beg to move , that the draft Neonatal Care Leave and Miscellaneous Amendments Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 20 January , be approve . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow motion : that the draft Statutory Neonatal Care Pay ( General ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 20 January , be approve . I be delighted to move regulation under the Neonatal Care ( Leave and Pay ) Act 2023 , which originate as a private Member ' s Bill in the previous Parliament . I therefore pay tribute to Stuart McDonald , the former Member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East , and Baroness Wyld for successfully steer the legislation through both Houses , so that it could secure Royal Assent in 2023 . the Act establish new statutory entitlement to neonatal care leave and neonatal care pay for employ parent if their child start to receive neonatal care within 28 day of birth and go on to spend seven or more continuous day in care . these regulation be another step towards implement neonatal care leave and pay in April 2025 , and they be the first to be bring before the House under the Act . there be currently no statutory entitlement to such right for parent of child who require neonatal care . parent in this difficult situation have have to rely on exist right , such as maternity leave or annual leave , to be there to care for their baby and to support their partner . this approach have understandably cause additional stress for parent . some mother report that they have to leave work because they be not ready to return at the end of their maternity leave . as paternity leave be limit to two week , some father and partner have have to rely on statutory unpaid parental leave or the compassion of their employer to take time off work . around 40 , 000 baby a year spend more than a week in neonatal care . once provision on neonatal care leave and pay come into force in April , we estimate that around 60 , 000 parent will be eligible , and that around 34 , 000 parent will take up pay leave each year . neonatal care leave will enable eligible parent to take a minimum of one week ' s leave and a maximum of 12 week ' leave , depend on how long their baby receive neonatal care , on top of their other parental leave entitlement . it will be a day one right for employee . statutory neonatal care pay , like other family - relate pay right , will be available to employee who also meet continuity of service and minimum earning test . eligible employee must have work for their employer for at least 26 week , end with the relevant week , and earn on average at least £ 125 a week before tax . if eligible , a parent will be able to claim a flat rate of £ 187 . 18 a week in 2025 - 26 , or 90 % of their average earning , whichever amount be low . employer will administer the statutory payment on behalf of the Government . small employer will be able to recover 103 % of the statutory payment from the Exchequer , while large employer can recover 92 % of payment and will therefore incur wage - like cost equivalent to 8 % of the statutory payment they make . this be a similar arrangement to that in place for other parental payment . together , these regulation will provide protection and support for parent at an incredibly challenging time . these entitlement provide a floor , and employer can and should go far if they be able . do the Minister agree that these change will not only support parent who be go through a really difficult time but will also be good for employer ? by show that they be support their employee to return to work with these additional right , this will be good for employer in the long term , too . my hon . friend be right . the impact assessment refer to evidence show that family - friendly policy be good for employer as well as for individual . that be certainly the Government ' s approach towards employment right . we have extensively consult stakeholder , include charity and business representative organisation , to ensure that these regulation balance the need of parent and business . these group agree that the propose reform will provide substantial benefit to business , include the retention of their employee ’ skill and knowledge , as my hon . friend have just say . I will explain in detail a few point in the regulation , which have be develop through consultation with relevant Departments , include the Department of Health and Social Care . we have a definition of neonatal care that encapsulate the different way in which baby receive it , include beyond the wall of a hospital and through outreach care . this could include care that take place in the family home , provide it meet the relevant criterion . we have include outreach care in the eligibility criterion to capture the many way in which baby receive care , and to prevent a postcode lottery in which parent of child who receive the same clinical treatment may qualify in one area because they receive their treatment in hospital , but not in another area because they receive their treatment at home through an outreach care programme . to ensure that as many parent as possible be eligible , the definition of " parent " in the regulation encompass adoptive parent , foster - to - adopt parent and intend parent in surrogacy arrangement . those who meet this definition will also be require to have caring responsibility for the child . have a baby in neonatal care be a difficult experience for any parent , whether the baby be admit for one day or for many month . however , this entitlement will focus on parent of baby who experience prolong stay in neonatal care as they will be in most need of additional support . a qualifying period of neonatal care will therefore be a minimum of seven continuous day , begin on the day after the one on which the care start . start the clock at one minute past midnight of the day after the child be admit create a consistent approach that do not vary from baby to baby . the total amount of statutory neonatal care leave and pay available to parent will be cap at a maximum of 12 week , which balance the need of business with the need of parent . it be also worth note that the entitlement will be in addition to other entitlement to parental leave and pay that parent may also be eligible for . the leave and pay can be take in two tier . tier 1 leave can be take when the baby be receive neonatal care and for one week after they stop receive care . that leave can be take at short notice , allow parent to act flexibly in an emergency . tier 2 leave can be take after the baby have leave neonatal care and therefore require more prescription to ensure the need of employer be balance against the need of employee . that approach provide flexibility for parent and crucially allow they to work around exist leave entitlement , such as maternity or paternity leave . employee will need to give notice to take leave and pay , and provide their employer with the information set out in the regulation . the method depend on which tier of leave they take and , as member will expect , the stipulation in tier 1 be less stringent than those in tier 2 . when the employee want to take leave in tier 1 , they will need to notify their employer before they start work on the first day of absence or as soon as possible thereafter . for pay , notice must be give within 28 day , begin with the first day of the week in which pay be be claim . when the employee want to take leave in tier 2 , they will need to give notice 15 day in advance for one week of leave and 28 day in advance for two or more week of leave . that be because leave in tier 2 can be more easily plan . the same notice requirement will also apply for pay . furthermore , parent be not require to provide proof of their child receive neonatal care . to make a claim in respect of pay , the employee may need to provide a sign self - declaration . parent who be out of the workforce on family leave for extend period may be at more risk from redundancy when they first return to work . we have therefore ensure that parent on neonatal care leave will be protect from redundancy , and those who have take six continuous week of neonatal care leave will also be protect until their child turn 18 month . we anticipate that there will be some impact on business regard familiarisation with the policy and manage the impact of employee absence . like other family - relate pay entitlement , employer will be responsible for administer the statutory payment on behalf of the Government . overall , we estimate that the net annual recur cost to business will be around £ 22 . 5 million . we also anticipate there will be a one - off familiarisation cost to business , which we estimate to be £ 4 . 7 million . despite those cost , we anticipate that there will be further benefit to business , as there be evidence that show , as have already be mention , that workplace offer a range of extensive family - relate policy be more likely to have above - average performance relative to workplace without such practice . my official be work with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to ensure there be clear guidance on gov . uk to support employer in implement this policy , and with Bliss , to which I pay tribute for its work in this area , to ensure that parent can access the information they need to understand their entitlement as easily as possible . I thank all those who have be involve in the development of neonatal care leave , include the premature and sick baby charity , for their tireless campaign and support . I hope they be proud that we have get this on the statute book and that the regulation will be introduce today . it will make a real difference to hard - work family , who need the support at such a critical time . I commend the regulation to the House . I welcome the opportunity to contribute on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , and I welcome the introduction of these two statutory instrument , which have be a long time come . in 2019 , the Conservatives make a manifesto commitment to introduce neonatal care leave . it be a shame that in that election , and in the most recent , no such commitment be make by the Labour party , now in government . that be no surprise , however ; just like with all their good idea , it usually turn out that they be ours . our commitment to introduce neonatal care leave lead to our support of the Neonatal Care ( Leave and Pay ) Act 2023 , which be stewarde by the former Member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East , Stuart C McDonald and Baroness Wyld . that Act be the reason why the Government be introduce these statutory instrument today . I be pleased that , with reservation , we will support the measure , so that we can continue to build on the sensible improvement to worker ' right that we , as conservative , introduce in government . we introduce share parental leave , give more choice and flexibility to family , and carer leave , give employee more time off to give or arrange care for their family . we support flexible working , give employer and employee more flexibility over working practice , and we achieve all that while increase employment and wage , a thing that the Government be now realise be no easy feat . the result of our reform to worker ' right be that Britain have some of the most generous maternity and paternity leave globally , mean family be able to spend more time with their newborn . those achievement be reach by work with business and employee . we work with business not just out of courtesy , but because we know that without consult business and take on board their concern , no progress will be make , no matter how good the intention . that be not something this Government have do , which be why their Employment Rights Bill be drive up unemployment before it have even be pass . in the plan to make work pay , the Government commit to right from an employee ' s first day , but for neonatal care pay , that be not the case . will the Minister confirm whether this be the first step in roll back on day one right ? under the Neonatal Care ( Leave and Pay ) Act 2023 , the right to neonatal care leave and pay will come into force in less than two month . why have the Government wait to introduce the instrument until now , leave business less than eight week to prepare and plan ? we have hear that the Prime Minister have request a growth test on all policy . have the Minister conduct a growth test on this policy ? if not , why not ? more generally , this Government ' s record on health , in particular woman ' s health , have be disappointing . at the end of last month , the Health Secretary drop woman ' s health target and those for woman ' s health hub . that decision will impact 600 , 000 woman on waiting list , lead to preventable disease progression and lead to more woman attend a & E , unable to work , care or live a fulfilled life . the labour manifesto make a commitment to prioritise woman ' s health , but this Government be make a habit of take with one hand to give with the other . will the Minister confirm whether he raise his concern over the cancellation of health target , which have an impact on these measure , with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care ? the shadow Minister talk about target , but be it not his own government that get rid of the target for A & E waiting time , and then fail to meet their lowered target ? it be a brave labour politician who talk about health target when , for so long , the NHS in Wales be perform , and continue to perform , bad than in England when it be run by the Conservatives . to conclude , we will support these statutory instrument because they will support the 40 , 000 family who face the incredibly difficult and worrisome experience of have a child in neonatal care . the instrument will build on our achievement that make the UK one of the good place in the world to be the parent of a newborn , and I hope the Government can continue to make progress . I end by again thank the former Member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East and Baroness Wyld . I also thank Bliss and the Smallest thing for their consistent work that have keep neonatal care pay and leave at the top of all of our agenda . I commend the Minister for bring the statutory instrument before the House . they introduce much - need and long - overdue support for new family , which I be sure will be welcome by member across the House . as every parent will know , the time after childbirth be a time like no other . it be both incredibly special and incomparably difficult , with lasting effect on the wellbeing of parent , carer and their baby . I pay tribute to my constituent Ashley Wiseman . in 2018 , she give birth prematurely to twin at 24 week . her first child Esme be sadly bear sleep . her second child Isla be bear 50 minute later . Isla be admit to neonatal care at Basildon hospital before be transfer to the Royal London hospital . Ashley meet I and tell I about the fear and uncertainty that she feel at that time , the impossible choice that her family face between return to work or be beside their sick child , and the financial burden of travel to visit Isla once she move to the Royal London hospital . Ashley describe what we would all find impossible to imagine : long stay on the ward , some of her darkest day , and Isla be give just a 2 % chance of survival . after seven month in a neonatal intensive care unit , Isla be discharge , and last month she celebrate her seventh birthday . out of such a traumatic and stressful time , Ashley create Isla ' s Journey , a charity offer support to family of baby in neonatal ward . the charity provide care pack for new parent at over 80 NICU ward across the UK . that simple support make a huge difference to family by allow parent to spend as much time as possible beside their baby , and the change bring forward today will achieve the same thing . by provide a statutory right to pay leave for work family with baby in neonatal care , the regulation will remove the unimaginable and impossible choice for new parent of either return to work to pay their bill or stay beside their desperately ill child . it be difficult enough to have a child in the neonatal intensive care unit . parent be with their new baby in the early day be vital for their mental and emotional wellbeing , as well as for the early life chance of the baby . the benefit of thing like skin - to - skin contact and those early bonding experience can not be overstate , and that sometimes feel like an impossible task for parent whose baby be in the NICU . this legislative change remove one of those barrier to these early experience be a joyful time for parent whose baby have an extra way to go when they be first bear . as Ashley and other parent can attest , there be still more to be do . for example , Isla ' s Journey advocate for a travel support fund for parent , because when a child be admit to a neonatal ward mile from home , parent have to make long and costly journey to spend time with their baby . while the new regulation will take away the compound financial burden of a loss of income , the travel still come at a significant cost . unless they be an in - patient , mother and other parent be not provide with basic amenity , such as a meal , on the ward . when Isla be transfer to the Royal London hospital , Ashley say that it become near impossible to give her body the correct nutrition she need to breastfeed . when her child ' s life be so fragile , she often do not want to leave her side for a moment , even to find something to eat . other parent have choose not to eat to pay for their travel to the hospital . while I welcome the measure the Government be take in the statutory instrument to remove worry around leave and pay for parent at an unimaginably difficult time , I ask that the Minister take away those suggestion for how the Government can go far and perhaps meet I and the team at Isla ' s Journey to discuss measure that can make parent ' live that little bit easy . make those change would improve the wellbeing of family with baby in the NICU and the life chance of those baby so that parent could focus on what truly matter most to they : the care of their child . order . before I call the Liberal Democrat spokesman , I remind the House that it be courteous for member who wish to speak to be present for all the open speech . please accept my sincere apology for be late , Madam Deputy Speaker . thing move on at pace this afternoon . I will take what you say seriously into account . the Liberal Democrats have such proposal in our manifesto , so we welcome the regulation . some 34 , 000 people — equivalent to the population of Yate — be set to benefit from the regulation in the first year after they come into force . I note that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , say that the Conservatives promise to deliver such proposal , but — a bit like their hospital programme — they fail to do so . one need to bear that in mind . I pay tribute to Stuart McDonald , a former MP whose private Member ' s Bill — the Neonatal Care ( Leave and Pay ) Bill — address this issue . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , for sponsor that Bill , which give these proposal leg in the Chamber . I be delighted that they be come to fruition today . in my Torbay constituency , develop an attachment between parent and child be often a challenge , particularly for those who face serious difficulty in their life . many prematurely bear youngster be from more deprived background — there be twice the chance of that . we Liberal Democrats truly welcome the proposal , because they will drive strong attachment between parent and their baby , and that can only bear fruit for community across the United Kingdom . I pay tribute to all parent who have campaign for change , and I commend the Smallest thing charity for its work on this issue . co - founder Catriona and Sarah have put their heart and soul into the campaign , lay bare their own experience to shine a light on the reality of neonatal intensive care and trauma face by family . these statutory instrument be a welcome and necessary step in ensure that parent who find themselves in one of the most distressing and uncertain experience of their life have the right to neonatal leave and pay . under the current system , parent have be leave to rely on maternity , paternity or share parental leave to care for their child in hospital . neonatal care can often bring additional , unforeseen expense , include travel cost . for many parent , statutory maternity or paternity pay simply do not stretch far enough . although the legislation be a step forward , we must recognise that more can be do . there be a wide picture of maternity and neonatal service that be under grow strain . the NHS workforce be overstretch , and maternity service have be repeatedly flag as need urgent attention . we need more midwife , more neonatal nurse and more support for family experience traumatic birth and baby loss . will the Minister outline what discussion he have have with colleague to ensure that maternity and neonatal care service be properly resource and fund ? additionally , we must recognise that support for parent should not cease once they leave hospital . the impact of neonatal care do not go away when a baby be discharge , as many child and parent will have long - term health complication . accord to Smallest thing , the incidence of mental health difficulty such as post - traumatic stress disorder be think to be as high as 70 % . we should have expand access to NHS mental health support for all parent who experience a neonatal stay , rather than require they to wait until they be at break point . the Government must do much more , alongside the welcome introduction of pay neonatal leave , to tackle and end the unacceptable maternal and neonatal health disparity . this legislation be long overdue , but there be still lot more to do to support family after neonatal care . the Liberal Democrats commit to the introduction of pay neonatal leave in our manifesto . I hope that the Government will continue down that route and consider what more they can do to improve maternity service , include with a national maternity safety ambition beyond 2025 , with clear baseline to measure progress . we need real investment in the NHS workforce to ensure that every baby and every parent get the care they deserve . no parent should be sit by their baby ' s cot worry about pay or work . it be the Government ' s duty to provide family with the stability , care and support they need during such a critical and challenging time . I thank all member for participate in today ' s debate — there have be some very thoughtful and move contribution . I will start with my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) , who speak movingly about Isla and her experience in neonatal care . it be truly wonderful to hear that , have be give a 2 % chance of survival , she recently celebrate her seventh birthday . that be a testament to the great work that many neonatal unit do up and down the country , nurture that very precious life and allow it to flourish and grow . of course , I would be happy to meet those from Isla ' s Journey , but I will talk to my colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care first about whether it might be more appropriate for they to conduct that meeting . I welcome the support from the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) . he speak about the importance of parental attachment , something that we be begin to understand be vital to a child ' s development — the more we can do in that area , the well . I also understand the point that the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) make , and I recently visit the Countess of Chester , which be build a new child and mother unit . that be absolutely fantastic to see , and clearly , we want to build on investment in this area over coming year . I feel that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) be a little churlish in his support for these regulation . I do not understand the criticism on the basis that these measure be in the Conservatives ' 2019 manifesto , since they do not actually implement they . give that their government undertake a consultation six year ago , criticise we for bring these regulation forward within six month seem a little rich . of course , the shadow Minister be already blame the Employment Rights Bill before it be pass for any rise in unemployment . it be completely nonsensical to argue that legislation that be unlikely to be enact until next year could be responsible for job loss now . it be the kind of talk that we hear when the minimum wage be introduce — it be wrong then , and it be wrong now . to address the shadow Minister ' s point about why this day one right be not in line with pay , that be consistent with all other parental leave entitlement . pay come in after 26 week , because a baseline of information about a person ' s pay be need in order to implement such a right . in conclusion , it be welcome to see support for these measure across the House . the first few week after a baby be bear be precious , and for a child in neonatal care , that time be even more important . as we have hear , the lack of option for parent who find themselves in that truly challenging situation serve only to worsen what , for many parent , be the most traumatic period of their life . we hope that give parent the additional right and flexibility they need through these regulation will provide some much - need support , reassurance and stability . parent deal with a very ill newborn should not have to worry about whether they can get the time off work that they need , or indeed whether they will have a job to go back to at all . as a nation , we can all understand that , and of course the good employer do these thing already . however , by legislate , we send a clear message that all parent in that situation — accord to some estimate , there could be up to 60 , 000 — will be able to put all their focus on their child , which be as it should be . on that note , I commend these regulation to the House . question put and agree to . term and Conditions of Employment Resolved , that the draft Statutory Neonatal Care Pay ( General ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 20 January , be approve . — ( Justin Madders . ) scrutiny of European Statutory Instruments Motion make , and question propose , that the follow Standing Order shall be make : 1 . for the purpose of paragraph 17 of Schedule 7 to the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 and paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 the committee charge with consider draft instrument and related document shall be the committee appoint under Standing Order No . 152 to examine the expenditure , administration and policy of the Department lay the draft instrument or , in respect of an instrument or document lay by a Minister in the Cabinet Office , the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . 2 . a committee consider such a draft instrument or related document shall have the assistance of the Counsel to the Speaker . 3 . in its consideration of an instrument refer to in paragraph ( 1 ) the committee shall consider , in addition to such other matter as it deem appropriate , whether the draft instrument — ( a ) contain any provision of the type specify in paragraph 1 ( 2 ) of Schedule 7 to the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 in relation to which the Act require that a draft of the instrument must be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , each House of Parliament ( the affirmative procedure ) ; ( b ) contain any provision of the type specify in paragraph 5 ( 2 ) of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 in relation to which the Act require that a draft of the instrument must be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , each House of Parliament ( the affirmative procedure ) ; ( c ) otherwise appear to make an inappropriate use of the negative procedure ; and shall report to the House if it be of the opinion that the negative procedure should not apply . 4 . this Standing Order shall lapse — ( a ) in so far as it relate to document lay in accordance with paragraph 17 ( 3 ) ( b ) of Schedule 7 to the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 ( and matter arise from the consideration of such document ) , at the end of the period after which no more regulation may be make under section 23 ( 1 ) of that Act ; ( b ) in so far as it relate to document lay in accordance with paragraph 6 ( 3 ) ( b ) of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 ( and matter arise from the consideration of such document ) , at the end of the period after which no more regulation may be make under Sections 11 , 12 , or 14 of that Act . — ( Lucy Powell . ) scrutiny of the law that we make and that bind we be very important , and it be exceedingly important when the origin of the law be not within our own parliamentary framework . of course , in the part of the United Kingdom from which I come , Northern Ireland , in over 300 area the law be make not by this House or the Stormont Assembly , but by a foreign Parliament that we do not elect — the European Parliament . that underscore the huge importance of effective scrutiny . in so far as this motion slightly improve the situation , it be welcome , but I need to make three or four point . be the inference of this motion that there have be no scrutiny of these matter since the demise of the European Scrutiny Committee in or about April of last year ? if so , a vast swathe of law have obviously go unscrutinised . the former chairman of the European Scrutiny Committee tell this House in March 2023 that , in the two year from 2021 to 2023 , 640 EU law have be impose on Northern Ireland . how many have be impose since , and how many of they have be scrutinise ? since Northern Ireland be the region most affect by many of these law , I have to register my disappointment that not a single member from Northern Ireland be propose for the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . that be a huge failure to give those I represent some confidence that scrutiny be take place and be effective . do the hon . and learn Gentleman agree with I , as someone who sit on the European Scrutiny Committee in the last Parliament , that it be no surprise that the Labour Government do not want to scrutinise this legislation come from the European Union , because for much of the last Parliament , with the exception of the former Member for Dagenham and Rainham , Jon Cruddas , the Labour Members on the then European Scrutiny Committee never turn up ? I hear what the hon . Gentleman say and I do not gainsay it . if that be so , it be a very poor reflection on the interest in scrutiny . not only do we have this lacuna in scrutiny of a year or more ; we have the very unsatisfactory position of there be no transparency — there be no public list of all the impose EU law . it do not exist , from what I be tell . how can it be right for citizen in any part of this United Kingdom to be govern by law when there be not even a list of all those law ? I look to the Government for a commitment that there will at least be the transparency of publish a list of all relevant regulation that be impose — and " impose " be the correct word — on Northern Ireland from a foreign Parliament . some may say , " oh , but doesn ' t the Stormont Assembly have a Democratic Scrutiny Committee ? " , and , of sort , it do , but on 2 February the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland write to the Speaker of the Northern Ireland Assembly inform he of the type of law that will be report to the Assembly , and it do not include all law . we have the so - call Stormont brake , which apply only to any law amend an exist EU law . we have applicability motion , which can apply to any new law , but we do not have any right of scrutiny within the Northern Ireland Assembly of what we would call statutory instrument . there simply be no capacity to scrutinise they . we recently have a troubling example of such a statutory instrument . Commission implement regulation 2025 / 89 create a situation where , for the first time in any part of this United Kingdom , and with no consultation with our consumer or our elect representative , we now have an authorised EU law whereby mealworm and insect can be include in food product . that EU law have be impose upon Northern Ireland without any scrutiny in Stormont or in this place . would that type of EU implement regulation be on the agenda of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , or would it just pass under the radar , as have be happen for so long ? vast swathe of important law be not classify as devolve under the protocol arrangement , so they be never scrutinise in the Northern Ireland Assembly , nor can they ever be scrutinise . nothing that arise under the EU ' s custom code , under its vat regime or under state aid be devolve . those matter be reserve to this place . regulation be make from time to time on the custom code , which be the most offensive of all the protocol arrangement , because it be the one that say , " Northern Ireland be to be treat as EU territory . GB be to be treat as a third or foreign country , and thus the good come from GB to Northern Ireland — come from a third country — have to be subject to the rigour of an international custom border . " all that arise under the EU ' s custom code , and none of that can be scrutinise in Northern Ireland . none of it have be scrutinise in this House , either . on the lack of scrutiny , do the hon . and learn Member agree that as time go on and the American Administration begin to look at what they may or may not do vis - à - vis trading arrangement with the EU , it be all the more important — it be important anyway — that we have close scrutiny , because of the deal that may come about between the American Administration , the UK and possibly the EU ? yes , and there be much talk about tariff . think of the conundrum that would be create if President Trump impose tariff on the EU . Northern Ireland , treat as EU territory , would , I presume , be subject to those tariff , yet we be tell that we be part of the United Kingdom . that be all because of the application to Northern Ireland of the custom code . if there be correspond response from the EU in that scenario , those would , under adjustment to matter arise under its custom code , apply to Northern Ireland it seem , and all without scrutiny . while the establishment of this Committee , belate as it be , be welcome , it be important that we be able to understand that it will seriously address the scrutiny issue , as the previous Committee under Sir Bill Cash do . I pay tribute to he for the work that he do , but there have be this great gap in the meantime with effectively no scrutiny whatever . now that scrutiny will be do by a Committee without , as I have say , a Northern Ireland representative even on it . do the hon . and learn Member accept that even when we have the European Scrutiny Committee , which be able to deal exclusively with such issue , there be many EU regulation that it do not have the opportunity to discuss ? give the importance of such regulation not just to Northern Ireland but , as he point out , to the whole of the United Kingdom , do he agree that this leave we vulnerable to detrimental change in law that will not get enough examination in the House ? absolutely . there be a sheer volume of EU law that still apply in Northern Ireland . in annex 2 to the protocol , there be 287 such area of law , and many have be add to it since . that breed further regulation of a huge quantity , yet there be a lack of scrutiny . the speed with which regulation be apply and the lack of opportunity for scrutiny be important . one of the complaint I hear from the Democratic Scrutiny Committee in the Northern Ireland Assembly be that it be not give the time or notice to deal with issue , even if there be the inclination among some to do so . it be even bad than that . on occasion , regulation have go through and be adopt before the Committee know they be there . yes . the Cabinet Office undertake to notify on a weekly basis , but I think that be honour more in default than anything else . from a scrutiny point of view , we be in a perilous position . I do hope that the Committee will grasp the issue and take it seriously . my only regret be there be not a member from Northern Ireland on the Committee to hold foot to the fire . that go to the heart of what should affect and concern we all as representative . I ask Members of the House who come from other part of the United Kingdom how they would feel if there be 300 area of law that they could not make or change and regulation — with vote on they — be not even be properly scrutinise . I think we know how other would feel . frankly , we ask for nothing that other do not have for themselves . I thank the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) for that contribution , which I be sure the House have hear . may I first explain to hon . member that the motion on the Order Paper be not anything to do with European Scrutiny Committee ? we deal with that previously . the motion be about the European Statutory Instruments Committee , a specific Committee whose role be to consider whether certain propose negative instrument in relation to the UK ' s withdrawal from the EU should instead follow the affirmative procedure . in the Committee ' s absence , all measure have proceed through the affirmative procedure instead . the hon . and learn Gentleman ask about the number , which , in fact , be quite low . I think that previously the Committee look at about 50 instrument per parliamentary session , but by the year of the final Session of the last Parliament it be down to just 11 , and it have be low since then as well . we be talk about a tiny number of instrument be consider for the affirmative procedure . rise — I will give way if the intervention be on that point . in regard to that , as the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) ask , if there be such a low number of instrument and the Committee be not to meet so regularly , why not give Northern Ireland a place on it ? the proposal be that the Committee will not meet and that measure will be consider by the relevant Select Committee . so , be measure to relate to Northern Ireland , they would be consider by the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . that be what the motion relate to , and not the European Scrutiny Committee , which a number of hon . member mention . the European Statutory Instruments Committee do specific work , and we now feel that it would not be value for money for the House to pay for a Chair and to facilitate a Committee that would need to meet only on rare occasion to consider whether a statutory instrument should go through the affirmative route , as I say , in the absence of the Committee , all such instrument have go through the affirmative route , and in future they will be consider by the relevant Select Committee of this House , which I be sure in many instance will be the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I hope that that reassure member . I take these matter extremely seriously . it be very important that this House scrutinise measure , whether statutory instrument generate by the Government , other legislation or the rolling on of measure from the European Union or elsewhere . I be happy to keep under consideration how good we can consider these matter should the context change . if member in the Chamber today have other idea , they can let I know and I will happily consider they . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Consumer Protection that the draft Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 ( Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 18 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , National Health Service that the draft Health and Social Care Act 2008 ( Regulated Activities ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 6 January , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . Petition - Potential Closure of the Gidea Park Library I present a petition on behalf of my constituent , who be devastate by the decision of the local council , the London borough of Havering , to close the Gidea Park library base in the Squirrels Heath ward , which serve a large part of Romford and be use by local child , student and old people . it be a community hub and a cherished local facility , which I campaign to save in 2001 , the year I become a Member of Parliament . sadly , it be now under threat of closure again by the local council , as propose by the Labour and Havering Residents Association administration that be in office last year , and oppose by the Conservatives . local people and councillor Christine Vickery , Keith Prince and Michael White , lead by I , have collect hundred if not thousand of signature across the area , to try to persuade Havering council to change its decision and keep our cherished local library open for local people to use and enjoy . the petition , on behalf of the people of Gidea Park , the wide community of Romford and the London Borough of Havering , in the historic county of Essex , state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , note that the Gidea Park library provide essential service to local community ; declare that their closure would have an adverse impact upon the local people , specifically the young and elderly ; far declare that this library ought not to be close by the London Borough of Havering ; and far declare that community library should be protect and enhance as vital centre of culture , learning , and local service provision by national and local government . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that the Gidea Park library in the parliamentary constituency of Romford be not closed , but rather protect and enhance as a centre of culture , learning , and local service provision for the people of Gidea Park . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003042 ] US Global Public Health Policy Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) I appreciate the opportunity to speak on a matter of urgent importance : the shift landscape of global health policy , and the direct threat that shift pose to public health security in the UK and worldwide . in recent week , the United States have announce its withdrawal from the World Health Organisation , and be significantly scale back its support for major global health initiative . it have also curtail the activity of key institution such as the National Institutes of Health and the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention , while pause vital lifesaving programme run by the US Agency for International Development . these decision send shockwave across the world . for decade , the US have play a crucial role in some of the great health achievement in history : eradicate smallpox and nearly eliminate polio ; tackle childhood malnutrition ; tackle some of the big killer in the form of HIV , tuberculosis and malaria ; and respond rapidly to emerge disease with pandemic potential . now , with this one decision , it have undermine global health security , weaken its own defence and place million of life at risk . the UK and our Commonwealth partner have long benefit from strong global health system . when the world be healthy and more stable , we be , too . however , as a recent study in public health challenge warn , the breakdown of global collaboration be as great a threat as any infectious disease , and the US retreat force we to confront that head - on . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . I can not imagine that any Member on either side of this Chamber will not be concern about the prospect that we face , but we have to live with the reality . give the withdrawal of the US from the World Health Organisation , it be essential that line of communication on global health issue remain open and consistent . do he agree that we must be proactive in establish a new method of co - operation and information sharing as a matter of urgency ? I think that be what he be look for . if we can meet somewhere in between , that might be the way forward . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . he make a hugely important point . economic pressure demand efficiency , but let there be no doubt : withdraw support from the World Health Organisation be a false and dangerous economy . by step away instead of seek reform from within , the US have throw global health security into turmoil . this be about not just principle , but consequence . a withdrawal on this scale damage health diplomacy and erode trust . it allow adversarial state to step in and use disinformation and strategic influence to reshape the global health landscape to their advantage . if the World Health Organisation be weaken , its ability to track , contain and fight disease be also weaken , and that make we all more vulnerable . other nation be already consider follow suit ; Argentina be voice similar intention . if more country withdraw , we risk a domino effect that could collapse the framework we rely on to monitor and respond to health threat . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . do he agree that one lesson from the pandemic be that the last thing country should do be withdraw from organisation such as the World Health Organisation and reduce international co - operation , give the risk of a future pandemic at some point ? I could not agree more . my hon . friend be completely right . the World Health Organisation be at the heart of international disease surveillance , co - ordinating early response to outbreak of deadly disease such as Ebola and highly pathogenic avian influenza , both of which have be in the news in the last couple of week . in today ' s interconnect world , speed be everything . without robust early warning system , outbreak that might have be contain could spiral into pandemic , just as my hon . Friend say . we also can not ignore the worsen impact of climate change on global health . due to change temperature , disease that be class as tropical when I be at university be now be see in other part of the world . the US withdrawal from the Paris agreement have already slow effort to tackle climate - drive disease ; now , its retreat from global health co - operation leave we even less well prepared to handle the consequence . the UK must remain firm in support the who ' s role in pandemic preparedness , not only because it be morally right , but because it be in our national interest . this crisis affect more than just emergency outbreak ; it threaten our ability to manage persistent health threat here at home . take seasonal flu . every winter , the NHS face immense pressure from influenza . our ability to develop effective vaccine depend on international collaboration , include datum from US research centre . if those partnership be disrupt , how will we prepare for the 2025 flu season ? the same apply to broad scientific research . the UK and US have work closely on the one Health Initiative , study how animal , human and environmental health intersect . hundred of these project have now stall , cut off vital knowledge that could have help we understand future pandemic . we must explore way to sustain these collaboration . that include secure funding for key research programme and ensure that our world - class university remain engaged in global health security effort . if we do not do those thing , we risk fall behind in disease surveillance , vaccine development and pandemic preparedness . I have speak in this House before about the urgent threat of antibiotic - resistant infection to the NHS . alongside the UK , the US have be a strong supporter of WHO - lead effort to tackle antimicrobial resistance , which expert warn be one of the great global health challenge of our time . antibiotic resistance do not respect border . drug - resistant bacteria and fungi travel with people and good across the world . without global surveillance , the consequence will be dire . More people will die in NHS hospital from infection that we can no long treat . this be not a distant problem ; it be happen now . the UK have be help Ukraine tackle antimicrobial resistance worsen by war . despite severe funding challenge , collaboration between Chelsea and Westminster hospital , Great Ormond Street hospital , University College London and ukrainian institution have make progress . this prove that even in difficult circumstance , proactive partnership can make a difference . we must apply these lesson to protect our own health security . I pay tribute to the laboratory team and Professor Inada - Kim in our hospital in Winchester , who be help to lead the national effort to tackle AMR in our NHS . the UK have a proud history of lead on global health . it be here that Sir Alexander Fleming discover penicillin , revolutionise modern medicine . Edward Jenner ' s smallpox vaccine lay the foundation for immunisation effort that have save hundred of million of life . british researcher help eradicate rinderpest in cattle , the only other disease besides smallpox to be wipe out completely . today , smallpox be go . rinderpest be go . one day , we hope to say the same about polio , but that vision be now at risk . I recently visit the rotary club in Winchester and learn about the long involvement of rotary club worldwide in support polio eradication over a period of many year . the US withdrawal force we to consider how we reaffirm our leadership in global health . twenty year ago , Nelson Mandela stand in Trafalgar Square wage a war on poverty . as my hon . friend will know , he be also the first chair of Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance , which have inoculate more than 1 billion child and save 18 million life . do my hon . friend agree that the Labour Government must fulfil their commitment to Gavi , and not fall behind ? even the Conservative Government say that they would fund Gavi properly . Mandela ' s life remind we , do it not , that the great victory be often in time of darkness , like today ? you be completely right about that very important organisation , which I shall come on to shortly . we can not highlight enough to the impact that Gavi have have . the World Health Organisation must adapt . this crisis highlight the need for a more resilient system , one that do not depend so heavily on any single nation . the UK must lead effort to strengthen the World Health Organisation by broaden its funding base and encourage great collective responsibility among member state . at the same time , we must invest in our own global health capability , which mean strengthen research funding , protect key collaboration , and engage with middle - income nation to forge new partnership . global health security be not just about pandemic ; it be about economic stability , national security , and the long - term wellbeing of our people — and let we be absolutely clear : disease do not respect national border . a threat anywhere in the world be a threat to the UK . if polio still exist anywhere , it be still our problem . if antibiotic resistance be surge in one part of the world , it will reach our hospital . if a new pandemic emerge in a distant country , it will be on our doorstep fast than ever before . when it come to global public health , " nobody win unless everybody win . " those be the word of Bruce Springsteen , but they apply as much to public health as they do to any other struggle . if we allow global health system to weaken , if we turn our back on international collaboration , we be not just fail other ; we be fail ourselves . however , this be also an opportunity . the UK have a chance to lead the world in global health innovation while strengthen our economy . we have significant human capital available through our university , business , learn society and research institution , and if we invest now we can become a global hub for public health expertise , vaccine development , artificial intelligence and cutting - edge medical research . we should also remember the power of our capacity to offer education and training as cost - effective intervention . we can export solution , shape international policy , and create high - skilled job right here at home . the last Government see university as a battleground for culture war . we must see they as engine of innovation , global collaboration and economic growth . they should not be political football ; they should be powerhouse of discovery , opportunity , and progress . if we get this right , we will not just be protect global public health , but secure Britain ' s place as a leader in the industry of the future . the US have make itself and the world weak . the UK now have a choice : we can watch as global health security unravel , or we can take decisive action to lead , collaborate , and strengthen the system that keep we safe . with the UK ' s aid budget be stretch thin , not least by the diversion of fund to cover domestic asylum cost , there be grow concern that our lead contribution to the work of Gavi , which be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , could be significantly reduce . that work have vaccinate over a billion child — over half the world ' s child — and support cutting - edge effort to tackle major cause of death such as malaria . let I ask the Minister two question : how can we justify cut support for an organisation that have save over 18 million life , and will the Government commit to restore overseas development aid to 0 . 7 % of gdp , to ensure that lifesave initiative such as Gavi and other key World Health Organisation initiative can remain viable ? this be not charity . this be global health security , prevent outbreak before they spread , reduce suffering , and strengthen healthcare system in some of the world ' s most fragile region . this be a question of national security , moral responsibility and economic opportunity . I urge the House to ensure that the UK do not waver in its commitment to a healthy , safe , and more prosperous and secure world . order . before I call the Minister , may I remind member that when they use the word " you " , they be address the Chair ? I thank the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) for secure this debate on such an important topic , and I be grateful to the other member who be in the Chamber . this Government be aware of the implication of the US Government ' s initial decision to pause their overseas financial assistance while they undertake a review , include where that be accompany by stop - work order . we be monitor those impact closely through our diplomatic mission overseas and with other international partner . of course , decision on US policy be a matter for the US Government ; I know the hon . Gentleman be well aware of that . we welcome the news that emergency food aid and lifesave humanitarian assistance should be exempt from the pause during the review period . I point out that these be early day for the new Administration , and it would not be appropriate — I know member would not expect we to do this — for we to give a running commentary on each announcement and executive order issue by the US Government . member will know that the US have a strong track record in global health and international development , and we have enjoy close bilateral co - operation with it in pursuit of our share objective in this area . I be pleased to hear the hon . member for Winchester rightly refer to that collaboration . naturally , we be very keen for that to continue . for our part , this Government be commit to work with other through genuine , respectful partnership with donor , multilateral organisation and country across the global south , so that we maximise our impact at home and overseas . this be an important part of how we fulfil every Government ' s first responsibility : to keep people safe — the hon . member for Winchester be right to refer to security in the context of this debate . it be also important for pursue this Government ' s guiding mission , which be to grow the economy and bring opportunity to people in our country , and to make progress towards our share global goal for sustainable development during this decade . our work on global health be crucial . since I take up my role over six month ago , I have make be the case for action right around the world , on my visit to some of the country most affect by the disease that the hon . member for Winchester talk about , and at major global summit . he will be aware that we be in the middle of a spending round process , so I be not in a position to outline specific investment plan — I know he would not seek to encourage I to do that — but I want to reassure member that this Government will be at the forefront of international work on improve global health as a priority for our country . it be the right thing to do , as the hon . member for Winchester articulate , and it be the smart thing to do . no country can thrive if its people can not thrive . in today ' s interconnect world , we have all see the impact of shock in healthcare and communicable disease ripple right around the world . we see that with the covid - 19 pandemic above all , which harm our health in the UK and all our global economy . to use the phrase that he rightly keep repeat , deadly disease do not respect border , nor do antimicrobial resistance , which he point to as another major challenge for we in global health term . they threaten we all , and it take a concerted international effort to tackle they , so we be work with country around the world to help they develop the system they need to tackle the health threat they face . I thank the Minister for her comprehensive response to the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , who set the scene very well . in my constituency of Strangford , I think of the Church group , and in particular of the Elim Missions , which have a very constructive and positive strategy for Zimbabwe and Swaziland . in Swaziland , the number of people who have AIDS be at almost epidemic level , but one of the thing the west — the USA , the UK and other — can do be provide medication that can preserve life and help people to live long than they ever have . that happen because of what the Government do but also because of what the church do . the Minister be always very helpful in her response . could the Government look at work more closely with the church to make life well ? I be grateful to the hon . member for that really important point and for his kind word . he be right to pay tribute to the incredible civil society that we have work on these issue right across the United Kingdom . he refer to the important work that church group do with community affect by HIV / AIDS and other disease . I be really pleased to hear the hon . member for Winchester talk about the role of the Rotary group in seek to combat polio , and I have be absolutely delighted to be work as a polio champion with some of the organisation campaign on this issue , particularly the global programme to eliminate polio . it be really important that we seek to work together on these issue , and the Government be review our strategy on civil society . I will make sure that the issue of health activism be feed into that process , because it be really important . we need to make sure that we face up to the ongoing threat together . the hon . member talk about the threat from communicable disease be intensify by the climate crisis and environmental degradation . he be right to do so , but we also see non - communicable disease become more frequent in many country in the global south , and there be still a potential threat from pandemic too . we be also work with other to champion sexual and reproductive health right and freedom for all , include as a key part of our work to empower woman and girl . we be invest in global health work that we know provide excellent value for money , reach million of people and maximise the impact of every single pound that we put in . I be really pleased to hear Gavi mention by the hon . member for Winchester and for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , who have so much international expertise . our support to Gavi , the global vaccine alliance , be enable it to immunise 300 million child and save up to 8 million life from vaccine - preventable disease over four year . that support for Gavi ' s multilateral and engaged action internationally be clear , as I set out to the International Development Committee . I will not repeat that here , for reason of time . similarly , the global fund to fight AIDS , tuberculosis and malaria have save over 65 million life since 2002 and reduce the combine death rate of the three disease by 61 % . the UK have play a significant role in that success . in addition , the UK ' s support for the child waste innovation programme have help it to raise financing from other , enable treatment for 850 , 000 child . the multilateral architecture be critical here , and I be really pleased to hear the hon . Gentleman underline the importance of the World Health Organisation . the UK will remain a strong supporter of the World Health Organisation . he hopefully see that we recently announce new funding for the WHO in support of its delivery and transformation agenda . we will continue to work closely with the WHO and its member state to strengthen the organisation , so that it can help country to meet the health challenge of our time . the UK ' s national risk register estimate that there be up to a 25 % probability of another pandemic in the next five year . that be one of the reason why we remain committed to secure a pandemic accord at the WHO . get well at prevent and prepare for pandemic matter immensely for global health security , but also for UK health security and for this Government ' s mission to build a national health service that be fit for the future . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that the same apply to the threat of antimicrobial resistance . the UK be already see thousand of death that be attribute to antimicrobial resistance , and I be pleased to hear about the work of Dr Matthew Inada - Kim at Winchester University . I be also extremely proud of the work of Sally Davies , who have be work on these issue with the UK Government and Lord Darzi . the UK Government work really hard to agree an ambitious global set of action against AMR at last September ' s high - level meeting , which be dedicate to that subject , and we will keep drive that work forward . before I wrap up , I want to shine a light on the wide work of the UK ' s world - class scientist and public health and medical institution . harness the huge wealth of talent and expertise here in the UK be fundamental to the new approach to development that this Government be adopt . the UK ' s scientist do a huge amount to address global health and development challenge by advance our understanding of disease , pioneer work in genomic medicine and develop novel vaccine . I be really delighted to hear the passion with which the hon . Gentleman talk about this issue , and I have see for myself the immense ambition of lab here in the UK , such as the Jenner Institute . please forgive I if I smile , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I be very proud to represent the constituency where the Jenner Institute be base , and I visit it recently . british scientist have help to develop two malaria vaccine that have the potential to save million of life . thank to the expertise and brilliance of british scientist , the dream of eradicate malaria look increasingly possible . the hon . member for Winchester quote Bruce Springsteen , and I hope that the " glory day " for those scientist will come when we finally globally eradicate malaria . if we manage to do that , it will be because of those incredible effort . we talk about Gavi early , and with the UK ' s support , it plan to roll out these new vaccine to 25 country this year . our health , life science and pharma sector be second only in value to that of the US . it have an annual turnover of £ 50 billion , with £ 25 billion a year in export , and it support 115 , 000 high - value job , which the hon . Member rightly refer to . I will finish by say how proud we can all be of the work that our country do on global health . it be good for we here in the UK and for people across the globe , and it be a key part of how we make sure that as many of we as possible can keep work together in partnership towards the safe , healthy and more prosperous world that people everywhere want and deserve . question put and agree to . House adjourn .