prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] before we begin , I would like to wish everyone a very happy Lancashire Day from the red rose county . oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — support Innovation what step he be take to help support innovation in Northern Ireland . what step he be take to help support innovation in Northern Ireland . what step he be take to help support innovation in Northern Ireland . Happy Lancashire Day to you as well , Mr Speaker . the Secretary of State and I be deeply sadden by the recent passing of former UTV political editor Ken Reid , who be a close follower of Northern Ireland oral question . our thought be with his family and his many peer across journalism . I recently attend the launch of Invest NI ' s business innovation grant , which receive £ 440 , 000 of UK Government funding . this will complement the Government ' s work to target high - growth sector in Northern Ireland , include the digital and technology sector , through our industrial strategy . my constituency in Edinburgh have two university , both of which do excellent work with our counterpart in Northern Ireland . can the Minister tell we how the Government be work with university to support innovation in Northern Ireland ? it be fantastic to hear of those close link , which be so important for innovation and business growth , in combination with the university sector . Northern Ireland ' s university be key partner in boost innovation and growth ; for example , through the UK Government ' s new deal for Northern Ireland , £ 11 million of funding be help Queen ' s University Belfast ' s centre for secure information technology to deliver a cyber - artificial intelligence hub — a lead cyber - security research centre . this investment be unlock a furth £ 4 . 5 million of investment from the private sector . free trade across the UK single market , from major tech hub in London , Edinburgh and Cardiff to small town such as Weston - super - Mare , be vital to support innovation in Northern Ireland and across the UK . what step be the Minister take to streamline Northern Ireland ' s ability to trade with all corner of the UK , and vice versa ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point and the connection to Weston - super - mare . there be a lot of work that we can do to support innovation across the whole country , include through the business innovation grant that I mention , which be especially for small and medium - sized enterprise . it offer grant of up to £ 20 , 000 to enable those enterprise to come into the market . beyond its excellent university , Northern Ireland be home to major innovative business such as Wrightbus , Spirit AeroSystems and Harland & Wolff , which specialise respectively in hydrogen vehicle , composite wing and aerostructure manufacture , and modular construction and shipping . give the economic importance of those business , can I ask the UK Government to look again at the future of the whole - site operation at Spirit , as well as at Harland & Wolff , to ensure that those investment and job stay in Northern Ireland ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the important aspect of business innovation and for mention those business , which be important to Northern Ireland ' s economy . we be work with the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure the good outcome for Short Brothers and its staff in relation to Spirit . the Department for Business and Trade remain in contact with Spirit , Airbus , Boeing and other potential buyer . we want to see an outcome that include a commitment to develop Short Brothers and its supply chain as part of any acquisition and that provide the good possible opportunity for growth in Northern Ireland . the Department for Business and Trade continue to provide over £ 13 million of support for Short Brothers ’ research and development activity . across these island , Northern Ireland be at the forefront for fibre broadband due to our confidence and supply deal with the previous Government . can the Minister indicate what be be do to promote this golden innovative opportunity nationally , which would help small business right across Northern Ireland ? this government be work across the whole of the UK to promote those business , and the industrial strategy provide an excellent opportunity to have this discussion . the UK Government be work with business , trade union , local and devolved leader , expert and international partner to develop that international strategy , which will cement this work and growth . eight growth - drive sector have be identify , include some that my hon . friend the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) have already identify — advanced manufacturing , clean energy industry , creative industry and so on . the transition to net zero also provide huge opportunity , and we will make the most of they . have the Minister yet study the national semiconductor strategy for Ireland publish by the Irish Government ? if so , can she say how Northern Ireland will be able to exploit that strategy , and how the whole of the United Kingdom will be able to compete with Ireland , which have plainly identify this as an important growth sector ? I thank the right hon . member for raise that issue . this be an excellent opportunity to raise something that I have not yet look at . I will go away and study it , because it sound like a very important aspect of our joint working . we have many international business opportunity to work with our counterpart in the Republic of Ireland , and I will take it up with they as well . may I associate myself with the condolence to the widow and family of the late Ken Reid ? the family be constituent of mine in North Antrim , and Ken be such a part of the political architecture . on innovation , there be no great trailblazer in Northern Ireland than Wrightbus in my constituency , which have really set the pace on hydrogen . how far have the Government invest in advance that , and in ensure that public fund , when they be need , be there to build the hydrogen infrastructure that be so key to advance that matter ? I thank the hon . and learn Member for rightly singe the praise of Wrightbus . the transition to net zero present huge opportunity , as he have identify , for business like Wrightbus in Ballymena . it be produce 1 , 000 low - carbon bus , secure 500 job in its factory and create 1 , 500 additional job across the UK supply chain . this show that Northern Ireland be lead the way , and we will continue to work on such opportunity through our industrial strategy . Northern Ireland Assembly : BME Representation what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on level of representation of people from black and minority ethnic community in the Northern Ireland Assembly . I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I would like to start by pay tribute to Anna Lo , who pass away early this month . as the first ethnic minority politician elect to the Assembly , she be a trailblazer , and I extend my sympathy to her family and friend . the Northern Ireland Assembly currently have no member from ethnic minority or ethnic minority background . I have meet many community group that have raise this matter with I . the key to change it be the membership and selection process of the political party in Northern Ireland , and we should think about what we can all do as member to speak with people from ethnic minority background and represent they . I wish the Secretary of State a happy birthday for yesterday — [ interruption . ] and a happy Lancashire Day to you , Mr Speaker . I join the Minister in pay tribute to Anna Lo . Anna be the first non - white Member of the Assembly , but she can not be the last . I urge the Minister to encourage all party in the Assembly to redouble their effort to ensure that all the people of Northern Ireland can look to their assembly and see someone like they . I recently meet Lilian Seenoi Barr , the first mayor in Northern Ireland from an ethnic minority background , who be show the way for other . I agree that people must see themselves represent , so I join my hon . friend in urge all party across Northern Ireland to look at their selection process and their invitation to meeting , and to make sure that all party welcome everyone from every background . Jay Basra be a 20 - year - old Ulster Unionist candidate who run in Mid Ulster at the last general election . Jay describe himself as Punjabi - british . when he announce his candidacy , he receive a torrent of online abuse , which he describe as " dehumanising " and " abhorrent " . he say : " it reduce I down to my skin colour rather than myself as a person . " however , he have also say : " if anything I ' m even more determined to run again and increase the Ulster Unionist vote like I do in the general election . " what word of encouragement do the Minister have for people such as Jay ? I be horrified to hear of that online abuse , and I be horrified to hear of any abuse that any politician receive . I commend Jay for his courage in say , " actually , this be not put I off . I want to stand again . " the hon . member be quite right to raise this matter , as we would all want to do , and to show support for Jay and other who want to be able to say that they can stand and not receive such abuse . we should call it out whenever we see it . budget what assessment he have make of the impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on Northern Ireland . what assessment he have make of the impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on Northern Ireland . what assessment he have make of the impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on Northern Ireland . this Government be provide the Executive with an £ 18 . 2 billion funding settlement for 2025 - 26 . this represent a £ 1 . 5 billion increase on this year and be the large settlement since devolution . it be now for the Executive to decide how the funding be spend . one of the central aspect of the reconciliation process arise from the Good Friday agreement be the need to facilitate and encourage integrate education , so will the Secretary of State join I in welcome the continue support for integrated education in the autumn Budget ? I certainly will , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue . poll after poll in Northern Ireland show that there be strong support for integrated education from the public . from memory , about 8 % of pupil study in integrated school , and I hope we would all like that number to increase . last week , my hon . friend the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the Education Secretary visit an integrated school . the Education Secretary be , I think , the 15th Minister apart from myself who have visit Northern Ireland since the election . do the Secretary of State agree that the recent Budget give the Northern Ireland Executive the opportunity to really go for growth after many year of uncertainty ? I do . there be no doubt that the funding the Northern Ireland Executive receive as a result of the Budget be more than they have anticipate , but all government be about make choice with the resource we have and the income we can raise , and decide what our priority be . the Budget provide a sound foundation for the Northern Ireland Executive to take the decision they need to take . do the Secretary of State agree that to ensure sustainable finance , the Northern Ireland Executive need to set out clear step to reform both the NHS and broad public service ? I do agree with that . as my hon . friend and the House will know , the long waiting list in the health service in the United Kingdom be to be find in Northern Ireland . that be not acceptable , above all for those people who be wait far too long . there be a plan for reform , which I welcome , but the people of Northern Ireland want to see progress happen . just last week , I attend and speak at a rally host by the Ulster Farmers ' Union in response to the change to agricultural property relief . it be attend by 6 , 000 farmer , with every political party in Northern Ireland stand together in opposition to the change . when will the Government acknowledge that their figure be not reflective of the average farm , and that this death tax will result in the break - up of family farm as we know they , the selling of land to pay the tax , and the purchasing of devalue land by big business that be not interested in use it to feed our nation ? will the Secretary of State outline whether he have share the concern of Northern Ireland farmer with the Chancellor ? I have speak to the Secretary of State for the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and a Treasury Minister about this . I understand that the change be unwelcome and difficult , but give the fiscal position , the Government be have to take difficult decision . there be , however , a difference of view about how many farm will be affect , and the Treasury estimate be about 500 claim a year . we can not infer from land value an inheritance tax liability , because it depend on the ownership structure of the farm . the Secretary of State know that there be extra funding for the running of the Police Service of Northern Ireland and about the issue with police recruitment , but there be also the issue of not have a new police college . will he give a commitment that he will speak to the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister and the Justice Minister to ensure that that police college be build at Kinnegar ? that be an issue for the Executive , but as the hon . Member allude to , the position on police funding have be improve , with additional money be give to the psni by the Executive out of extra funding that the Budget provide . the UK Government have also increase the additional security funding that be give in recognition of the security need in Northern Ireland . with 14 mile between my constituency of Dumfries and Galloway and Northern Ireland , I know how much we have in common . unfortunately , we also share the fact that hospitality business in Northern Ireland and much of Scotland be not benefit from a 75 % discount on business rate bill . that can not be call " headwind " ; to quote Van Morrison , it be a " Full Force Gale " . do the Secretary of State agree that by increase employer national insurance contribution rather than grow the economy on both side of the North channel , we be threaten job , stop investment , jack up price , and put business viability at risk ? the business I meet in Northern Ireland be vibrant and look forward to the future . of course the increase in employer national insurance contribution present challenge for some business , but there be no get away from the fiscal inheritance that this Government find when we arrive in office . the foundation have to be fix , and that be what we be do . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I associate Conservative Members with the remark that the Under - Secretary of State make about Ken Reid ; he will be very much miss . a belated happy birthday to the Secretary of State for yesterday . last week , the Secretary of State suggest to the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee that the Treasury have not yet conduct a detailed analysis of how the Budget will affect farmer in Northern Ireland . have he now ask it to do so ? the Treasury have conduct an analysis of the overall number of farm that it think will be affect . it be important that people look at all the arrangement that we have put in place , include how , as the hon . Gentleman will know , individual can pass £ 1 . 5 million on to family member and couple up to £ 3 million when all the allowance be add together , as well as interest - free payment over 10 year . of course , land transfer seven year before death can go to child with no inheritance tax pay . I should have congratulate the hon . gentleman on his double - hat appointment : he be shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster as well as shadow Secretary of State . he will now have many a merry conversation with himself about the Windsor framework . and , I hope , conversation with the Secretary of State . he will know that the make - up of farming in Northern Ireland be slightly different from that in the rest of the UK : there be a great density of farm in sole ownership and agricultural land be worth more . that mean that farm in Northern Ireland be more expose to labour ' s family farm tax . the farmer I have meet in Northern Ireland be deeply concerned about that . as the Secretary of State say , there be disagreement nationally about the figure . on one side , we have the Government who say that not many farm will be affect . on the other side , we have the expert who say that very many farm will be affect . transparency will help everyone . will the Secretary of State commit to ask the Chancellor to publish detailed Treasury work on the Budget ' s impact on farm in Northern Ireland so that independent expert can check their figure ? to understand the impact , we have to look at the ownership structure of each individual farm . I be not entirely sure whether the hon . Gentleman be advocate that the Government should do that for all farm right across the country . it will be for farmer to look at the arrangement that will apply from 2026 and to take advice on how they can ensure that they can continue to pass their family farm to their child and grandchild . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . total income from farming in Northern Ireland fall by 44 % last year amid volatile market , soar cost and decline output . More than 6 , 000 Northern Ireland farmer recently gather in the Eikon exhibition centre to highlight the impact that the change to agricultural property relief will have on their sector . with dairy farming face serious economic challenge and gross agricultural output decline , can the Secretary of State commit to publish a full impact assessment of APR removal for Northern Ireland ' s farming sector , as well as its wide implication ? as I indicate in answer to the same question a moment ago , until we understand the ownership structure of each farm , I do not see how an impact assessment that would answer the hon . member ' s question could be do . now that farmer know what the new arrangement be go to be , I urge they to take advice . there be a number of thing that they can do . last week , I meet the Ulster Farmers ' Union and a number of young farmer , and I be in no doubt about the concern that they have express . it be really important that we discuss it on the basis of the fact and that people look at how they can plan for their future . City and Growth Deals what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the future of city and growth deal in Northern Ireland . it be a pleasure to sign the head of term document for the Mid South West growth deal alongside the First Minister , Deputy First Minister and Minister for Finance on 6 November . these deal be a partnership between the Northern Ireland Executive , the UK Government , local authority and business . the aim of our joint investment in all four deal be to encourage economic growth in Northern Ireland . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , I be pleased that Belfast have see a successful economic redevelopment , partly drive by embrace its heritage , which will now be far support by the Belfast region city deal . do the Secretary of State agree that we must continue to support heritage as a regenerative tool in Northern Ireland and the wide UK with deal like this ? I agree . these deal be all about partnership and place , include their heritage . all those be an integral part of the approach . in Belfast , the city deal be roar ahead with thing such as the advanced manufacturing centre and considerable investment in digital . I appreciate the Government ' s focus on growth , especially green - light the city and growth deal , and their transformative impact on our often overlook economy and infrastructure . the forthcoming Windsor framework review present an opportunity to look not just at east - west trade , which be important , but at other overlook issue , to allow we to realise the growth potential of our unique trading arrangement . will the Secretary of State consider ambitious term of reference for that review , to allow we to maximise growth and innovation by explore issue such as dual market access and north - south co - operation ? as set out in law , whether there be an independent review depend on the outcome of the consent vote that will take place in the Northern Ireland Assembly . the Government would be under a legal obligation to commission a review if it be not pass with cross - community consent . I would expect the review to focus on article 5 to 10 of the Windsor framework , but it would be for the reviewer to consider how they conduct it . I associate myself with the Minister of State ' s remark about Ken Reid . he be a colossus of Northern Ireland politic , and journalism more broadly across the country . I thank she for those comment . the Secretary of State will know that get the city and growth deal back on track be good , follow the disappointment of the pause that follow the incoming government . he will also know that there be a commitment in the spring Budget to support a skill and education centre at the Crusaders football club , for £ 2 . 2 million . that remain paused . I think the Minister of State have take an interest in that project , and I would be keen for the Secretary of State to confirm that he will raise it with the Deputy Prime Minister . I be aware of the pause that affect the particular project to which the right hon . Gentleman refer . consideration will then have to be give to how that may or may not be take forward , but I note his interest and I will follow development carefully . the Secretary of State know that city and growth deal be about economic growth and ensure prosperity within Northern Ireland . be he aware of the concern among business in England , Wales and Scotland , who be say that , as a result of the general product safety standard emanating from the European Union , they can not send their product to Northern Ireland ? that be in stark contrast to the British Government ' s position to maintain standard on CE marking with the European Union . what advice and support can he give those business in Northern Ireland who want to trade , and to consumer who want to buy , in their own country but be currently frustrated from do so ? advice be be provide about the general product safety regulation . many company already meet its term , because they be export from the UK to the European Union . there be step that some business will have to take , but I hope the impact will be very small , because there be a way to get through it . violence against Women and girl what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on tackle violence against woman and girl . what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on tackle violence against woman and girl . what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on tackle violence against woman and girl . White Ribbon Day this week mark the start of 16 day of activism against violence against woman and girl . the scale of this violence in our country be unacceptable , and this Government be treat it as the national emergency that it be . every woman and girl deserve to feel safe wherever she be . that be why the Labour Government have set out our ambition to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . the Government want to take a join - up approach across the UK , and I have discuss this issue with the First and Deputy First Ministers and the Deputy Prime Minister . we will continue to work collaboratively with the Executive — order . we want to get to pmq , but we will not achieve it at this rate . accord to Women ' s aid , a fifth of all crime in Northern Ireland be domestic abuse . we know that paramilitary organisation make reporting , confront or escape such abuse even more difficult . how be the Government work with the Northern Ireland Executive to break down those coercive barrier to support for woman and girl ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that question . alongside the alarming femicide statistic , there be other factor that add to the complexity of gender - base violence in Northern Ireland , and it be important to recognise and take action to prevent these factor — paramilitarism be one of they . we need to tackle the grip of paramilitary to end this abuse . the theme of this year ' s White Ribbon Day be , " it start with man " . do the Minister agree that it be incumbent on we all , especially man , to play our part in stamp out violence against woman and girl wherever we find it ? how be she work with the Executive in Northern Ireland to deliver on our share mission and do exactly that ? I be delighted to see so many man raise this issue today at Northern Ireland question . yesterday , I meet with Tahnee McCorry from White Ribbon Northern Ireland , who be work with man in football and Gaelic Athletic Association team and in prison . we absolutely all have a role to play to have those difficult conversation and really change our society . the Northern Ireland Executive ' s strategic framework to end violence against woman and girl acknowledge the rise of online influencer who have a toxic influence on man and boy . will the Minister provide an update on discussion she have have on share good practice on how to challenge these influencer and promote healthy and safe attitude towards consent and relationship across the UK ? I be very supportive of the Executive ' s strategic framework to tackle violence against woman and girl . I be in constant dialogue with organisation such as White Ribbon NI to learn and share good practice . that be how we be go to achieve this — in partnership with the Executive . the Government be commit to tackle online abuse and violence against woman and girl with the Online Safety Act 2023 and further work we will be do on this matter . last year in Northern Ireland , six woman be murder by man . all the man have be arrest , and their case be pende . last year , some 800 woman and child stay in a Women ' s aid refuge , and 10 baby be bear in a refuge . there be an epidemic of violence against woman in Northern Ireland . what can the Minister do in discussion with the Northern Ireland Assembly to make that well ? I pay tribute to all the Women ' s aid organisation across Northern Ireland , which do absolutely fantastic work . it be about prevention and provision of service . tackle online abuse and violence against woman and girl wherever we see it — by everyone in this House and across the UK — be the only way that we will change this situation . do the Minister agree that the low number of police officer in Northern Ireland hinder the fight against violence against woman and girl ? will she work with the Executive to ensure that the number of officer be increase to the 7 , 500 recommend ? action by police officer be fundamental , and we be look at how we can change the justice system , as we be do across the UK , as our target to halve violence against woman and girl be essential . it be , however , about much more than that — it be about a whole - of - society change and tackle misogyny wherever we see it . every organisation need to get involve in this . action by the police be one part of it , but it be about so much more than that . I call the shadow Minister . follow on from my hon . friend ' s question , the key to reduce violence against woman and girl be , of course , effective policing , which be a clear commitment in New Decade , New Approach . when do the Minister expect police number in Northern Ireland to reach the level set out in that commitment ? in the Budget , this Government provide a record - break devolution settlement of £ 18 . 2 billion , with £ 640 million this year and £ 1 . 5 billion next year . it be now up to the Chief Constable to spend those figure . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 27 November . the sympathy of everyone in this House will be with those affect by the devastating flooding that we have see recently . our thank go to all those work tirelessly to support the affected community . we have commit £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year to build , maintain and repair vital defence to protect more community from the awful impact of the flooding . the ceasefire announce in Lebanon be long overdue , but demonstrate that diplomacy can succeed even in the most challenging of circumstance . we must seize this opportunity to build trust , de - escalate tension and push for a wide ceasefire . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark . West Hertfordshire teaching hospital NHS trust have eliminate 65 - week wait and have now meet all three national cancer standard . those remarkable achievement by the staff be happen despite their work in terrible building that be life - expired and crumbling . if the Government be look for a project that be high - perform and shovel - ready , that be it . will the Prime Minister give our trust the green light to build a new hospital without further delay ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that issue , which be of importance to her constituent and beyond . the new hospital programme we inherit be a failure of the previous Government . we be commit to deliver , and we be review to ensure that we can deliver . the Health Secretary will set out further detail , but I be very happy for she to have a meeting with the relevant Minister if she want to follow up on the specific . resident in Redhouse Park in my constituency be suffer from soar management fee and poor service from their fleeceholder management company . recent BBC reporting have once again demonstrate the consequence of the outdated and feudal leasehold system . all of they be frustrate by the broken promise of the previous Government . will the Prime Minister reassure they that this Government will introduce legislation as soon as possible to resolve the fleeceholder and leaseholder crisis ? yes , we will do so . I agree that the last government totally fail to tackle the unfairness of the leasehold system . we will provide homeowner with more power , protection and data right by bring that legislation forward . I call the Leader of the Opposition . at the CBI conference on Monday , the Chancellor say : " I ' m clear … I ' m not come back with more borrowing or more taxis " . I know that tell the truth to the House be important to the Prime Minister , so will he repeat his Chancellor ' s pledge now ? we set out our position at the Budget that be just set out . we be fix the foundation . we be deal with the £ 22 billion black hole that the Conservatives leave . I be not go to write the next five year of Budgets at the Dispatch Box . we say that we would not hit the payslip of work people . we pass the Budget , we invest in the future and we keep that promise . the Prime Minister be not fix any foundation ; he be make everything bad . the whole House will have hear he refuse to repeat the Chancellor ' s pledge , a pledge as worthless as the manifesto promise that he be talk about . if he be fix foundation , why be it that the PMI index show that business confidence have crash since the Budget ? we be fix the foundation . we get record investment into this country . the right hon . Lady talk about tax rise . two week ago , she stand there and say that she want all the investment and all the benefit of the Budget , but she do not know how she be go to pay for it . I notice that , have come here criticise the national insurance rise over and over again , on Monday she admit that she would not reverse the position . meanwhile , her shadow science Minister be say energetically that he would do the opposite . they haven ' t get a clue what they be do . if the right hon . and learn Gentleman want to know what conservative would do , he should resign and find out . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] I ' ll decide when there ' s more . until then , I be the one ask the question . there be a petition out there with 2 million people ask the right hon . and learn Gentleman to go . he be the one who do not know how thing work . it be not government who create growth ; it be business . his Minister for Employment , the hon . member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) — I do not see she here — want more young people in work , but business say that they be cut job because of the Chancellor ' s Budget . his Deputy Prime Minister ' s Employment Rights Bill — she be not here — will stop business hire . that be what they say . the CBI say on Monday that the dot of the Government ' s policy do not join up . it be right , isn ' t it ? on Monday the right hon . Lady say that she would not reverse the increase in national insurance . yesterday , on their predecessor legacy legislation , the opposition could not decide what their position be . today , they have launch a policy commission ask other people to give they some idea for government . the right hon . Lady talk about a petition . we have a massive petition on 4 July in this country . we spend year take our party from a party of protest to a party of government ; they be hurtle in the opposite direction . what a load of nonsense . we have a Budget in March this year , and tractor be not blockade the street of whitehall afterwards . let I give the Prime Minister another example of a real business . follow his Budget , the head of McVitie ' s say that it be " hard to understand " what the case for investment in the UK be . while the Prime Minister have be " hobnob " in Brazil , business have be struggle to " digest " his Budget . be it not the case that the Employment Rights Bill show that it be not only the " ginger nut " that be cause he problem ? I be attend the G20 summit . I suspect that , on their current trajectory , the opposition do not know whether they would attend the G20 . perhaps the policy commission will come up with an answer on that one . we have have record overseas investment in this country . the right hon . Lady keep carp from the sideline . she say at the Dispatch Box that she want all the benefit of the Budget , all the investment , but she do not want to pay for any of it . she have rack up £ 6 . 7 billion of unfunded commitment in just three week as Leader of the Opposition . when it come to the economy , we be the one who be grow the economy . the investment for which the Prime Minister be take the credit be our work . when I be the Business Secretary , we negotiate those deal that he announce . the bottom line , however , be that in all that he have say , he do not seem to care about the young people who will lose their job as a result of his Budget . perhaps he can show concern for the 1 , 100 people who find out yesterday that they could lose their job at Vauxhall ' s plant in Luton . while he fly around make unilateral commitment , back at home the real - world effect be business close in Bedfordshire and Basildon . do he stand by his promise to ban the sale of petrol car by 2030 , even if more job will be lose ? [ interruption . ] I would not normally invite a heckle , but that one be accurate . the question of the position of job in Luton be a very serious one — family and worker will be very worried , and we be engage with they — but I remind the Leader of the Opposition that the electric vehicle mandate that be an issue in this particular case be introduce by the last Government . I also remind she that she be the Business Secretary who introduce they . we be get on with support those community while she be shout from the sideline . the Prime Minister clearly do not read his briefing about the EV mandate . the fact be that we change the date and make it easy for people . everything he have do have attack people . the Budget be an attack on farmer , an attack on worker , an attack on pensioner , an attack on the young , and an attack on thousand of charity and business across the country . the whole system be break , and the Prime Minister be make thing bad . everyone be unhappy . be it not a good thing that the Chancellor be an expert on customer complaint ? I think the right hon . Lady have just read out the charge sheet against the last government . everything be break , but the opposition come here every week with absolutely nothing to offer except complaint — nothing constructive ; no new idea . they do not know what they be do from one day to the next . they be live in a fantasy world in which everything be fine , apparently , for 14 year . well , the country be feed up with those fantasy . it have get rid of those fantasy . we be go to take the hard decision . the opposition be jump on every pass bandwagon , while we be take the country forward . as we enter the last week of Islamophobia Awareness Month , the Prime Minister will know that this year have be extraordinarily difficult for british Muslims on the receive end of society ' s most deplorable attitude . they have be consider easy prey for the far right , and scapegoate by politician endorse institutional Islamophobia . the reality be that the emboldening and normalisation of Islamophobia , as highlight in a number of report , lead to the race riot that we see on the street of Britain this summer , when mosque and those who be visibly Muslim be subject to despicable attack , with many left fear for their life . will the Prime Minister condemn those in public office and position of power who actively promote Islamophobia ? will he commit to adopt a definition today , and will he far outline what concrete step the Government be take to rip out Islamophobia at its root , include in this place ? my hon . friend be right to raise Islamophobia . there have be a concern rise in Islamophobia and antisemitism over recent month , and we be commit to tackle all form of hatred . we will work with other on an ongoing basis to make sure that we do . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . may I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about the terrible impact of storm Bert and all the flooding ? our thought be with all those affect , with thank to our amazing emergency service . Christine ' s father be tell that he need end of life care , but after a few day it be remove due to funding cut . he be tell that he would not get it , and he die a few week later in excruciating pain . Christine say that it be terrible to watch he suffer . do the Prime Minister agree that , whatever the House decide on Friday , it be urgent that we improve access to high - quality end of life care ? will he make that a key focus of the 10 - year NHS plan , and will he now commit to protect hospice from the national insurance rise ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that case , and I be sure the thought of the whole House be with the family involve . obviously there be a very important vote on Friday , but whichever way that vote go , we must invest properly in care across our health service . that be why , in addition to put the NHS back on its foot , we be put forward a 10 - year plan to make sure that the NHS can give the care that everybody would expect across the spectrum , include end of life care . I thank the Prime Minister for his reply . I hope that we will hear more from Ministers , particularly on hospice and national insurance , in the day to come . I turn to the cost of living crisis . on Friday , Ofgem say that energy bill will go up again in January , after last month ' s 10 % rise . million of people be really worried about how they will make end meet this winter , not least hundred of thousand of pensioner who be in poverty but above the pension credit limit , who will now lose winter fuel payment . with energy bill go up again , will the Prime Minister reconsider and restore winter fuel payment ? obviously the whole House be concerned about energy bill , which be actually low this year than they be last year . the long - term way to deal with this issue be to have clean power by 2030 , to make sure that we drive energy bill down on a permanent basis , and that be what we will do . on the winter fuel allowance , the right hon . Gentleman know very well what the Government ' s position be ; indeed , I have rehearse it with he many time . antisocial behaviour involve modify and off - road bike be a menace , and have a huge impact on community such as mine in Sunderland . although I welcome the work that Northumbria police do in partnership with our council , they need strong power and more resource . can the Prime Minister outline how he will back the police to tackle the misery cause by intimidate and downright dangerous antisocial behaviour on bike ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , because antisocial behaviour affect so many people . sometimes it be describe to I as " low level " , but its impact be not , particularly when it come to off - road bike . that be why we be implement tough new respect order , which will give power to the police , include power to seize off - road bike and , crucially , a power of arrest for breach of order — something that have be miss in recent year . we will tackle this problem , because it blight community across the country . as everyone in the House will be aware , we be currently in the middle of the BBC ' s scam awareness week . the advice in that context be always simple : if you see a scam , you should report it . with that in mind , can the Prime Minister advise the House whether he be aware of anyone who have promise to reduce energy bill only for they to increase ? be he aware of anyone who promise to back business , only to tax business ? and be he aware of anyone who promise to protect pensioner , only to pick their pocket for their winter fuel allowance ? it be very — [ interruption . ] order . those in the Gallery will not clap or interrupt the proceeding . I be very glad to see the right hon . gentleman in his seat in the House , and I be sure that many of his colleague in Scotland share that sentiment . what I can point to be a Government in Scotland that promise to take Scotland forward and take it backwards , so I can identify the first one and it be right there . November mark Islamophobia Awareness Month . last year , the United Nations Human Rights Council adopt a resolution condemn the desecration of religious text , include the Koran , despite opposition from the previous Government . act of such mindless desecration only serve to fuel division and hatred within our society . will the Prime Minister commit to introduce measure to prohibit the desecration of all religious text and the prophet of the abrahamic religion ? I agree that desecration be awful and should be condemn across the House . we be , as I say before , commit to tackle all form of hatred and division , include Islamophobia in all its form . Sarah and her family have farm beef cattle in my constituency for over 70 year and they have always plan for her sister to continue the family legacy . early this year , Sarah ' s mother die suddenly and unexpectedly . she be just 58 . Sarah say to I that , despite already have a tragic year , it be make even bad after the Budget . she say : " change to agricultural property relief have hit we hard while we ' re already struggle to cope with bereavement and lose Mum . " what would the Prime Minister say to Sarah and her family , in what have be the most difficult year of their life , in the light of the family farm tax ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise that case and the awful bereavement . if she would kindly send I the detail , I will certainly have a look at the case . in relation to farm more broadly , as she know , £ 5 billion be set aside in the Budget over the next two year as an investment in farming . that be the big amount that have ever be set aside — [ interruption . ] I hear the chuntering , but the Conservatives actually fail to spend the last farming budget by £ 300 million . on the question of inheritance of family farm , it be important to bear in mind that in a typical case , which be parent pass to a child , the threshold be £ 3 million , and that be why , as she know , the vast majority of farm will be totally unaffected . Southwark face a significant challenge with antisocial behaviour , but we have few police today than in 2010 due to Tory cut in coalition with the Lib Dems . as the Prime Minister fix the postcode lottery of law and order , will he consider the request from Southwark police , Southwark council and myself for our community to be a pilot test area for the new respect order , to address this serious problem ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this , because public confidence in the police have be badly erode under the last government . we will drive that up with a major programme of reform . that include recruit 13 , 000 more police into neighbourhood policing and the tough new respect order , couple with the power to arrest for breach of the order . I sincerely hope that all of we in this House agree that good government be transparent government . in response to my write question on publish the number of foreign national receive universal credit , I be inform by the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , that the feasibility of develop suitable official statistic be be examine . will the Prime Minister today commit to use his good office to publish this datum transparently ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise this . I know there have be an exchange on it , and as soon as I have an update , I will provide he with it . within week of the general election , this Labour Government deliver for the mineworker and the mineworker ' pension scheme . it be well receive , and it be justice do . however , be it not time to seek the truth on police during the miner ' strike ? will the Prime Minister commit to an early and full inquiry , something which that lot deny for generation ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this . the decision on the mineworker ' pension scheme reverse a historic injustice , and I be so pleased that we be able to do it in the Budget . as I think he know , I meet some of the Orgreave campaigner and listen very carefully to what they have to say . they be entitle to the truth , and we be carefully consider the next step to deliver it for they . next month mark two year since the death of Cody Fisher , a young man from my Stratford - on - Avon constituency . Cody be a talented footballer with a bright future , whose life be tragically cut short when he be stab in a nightclub in Birmingham . his mother , Tracey , have campaign tirelessly in his memory for legislation to require venue to have blee kit and metal detector . in the light of the Government ' s commitment to tackle knife crime , will the Prime Minister meet Tracey and I to discuss these vital proposal to well protect young people like Cody from the devastating impact of knife crime ? I thank the hon . member for raise that tragic case , and I pay tribute to Tracey for her campaigning . I have meet a number of family on the issue of bleed kit , so I know at first hand how important this be . we be take measure in relation to knife crime , include ban the online sale of knife to make they less available , steer young people away from offend and implement real penalty . I be happy to look at bleed kit , and I will make sure that Tracey get a meeting with the relevant Minister to hear more about what we be do and to make her case . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the propose closure of Luton ' s Vauxhall van plant by Stellantis be devastating news for our town , with over 1 , 000 job at risk and the town ' s future prosperity threaten . can the Prime Minister assure I that there will be a cross - departmental response to support the automotive sector and , importantly , good , skilled job in Luton ? yes , I will . I thank my hon . friend for raise this , at a difficult and uncertain time for worker and constituent in Luton , and their family . that be why we be work with the industry . there will be a statement later today , and it be important that we do whatever we can to support these community . last weekend , during Storm Bert , Tenbury Wells be flood for the second time this year . it be a question of when , not if , the town will flood again . the situation be even more devastating for resident because the town have a fully develop flood defence plan that be partly fund . the Budget carry forward £ 2 . 4 billion for flood defence . will the Prime Minister commit to use his office to finally get this scheme build and to fix the foundation of Tenbury Wells ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise this awful situation for her constituent . we all know how devastating flooding be , both the initial damage and the ongoing challenge , include problem with insurance for many year . we be committed to tackle this , which be why we set aside money in the Budget . I will happily arrange for she to have a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss the particular detail of this case . I thank she for raise it , as it be such an important issue for her constituent . last weekend in Cwmtillery , torrential rain cause a landslip . slurry , even boulder , pour down street — people be afraid . the Chancellor just agree a welcome £ 25 million for coal tip maintenance in Wales . give the impact of extreme weather event , will the Prime Minister continue to prioritise coal tip , in order to keep our community safe ? yes , I will . I know how much of a concern it be to my hon . friend ' s constituent . indeed , he and I go together to meet some of those constituent last time there be terrible flooding . the £ 25 million commitment to coal tip maintenance be very important . we have now have two question about flooding . if other hon . member have individual issue that they be unable to raise on the Floor of the House , they should get in touch with I or my office and I will ensure that they get whatever they need in support of their constituent . we in the Scottish National party also welcome the ceasefire in Lebanon . now that arrest warrant have be issue for his ally — Netanyahu and Gallant — the Prime Minister ' s determination to supply Israel with the weapon it require to carry out its atrocity in Gaza , which have always be morally repugnant , be now completely untenable . these warrant present he with a perfectly valid legal avenue by which he can end the UK ' s complicity in this slaughter , so will he do that , or will the Prime Minister continue to choose to license F - 35 component to a regime that be lead by a man now want for war crime and crime against humanity ? we have set out our position under the current law , as the hon . Gentleman well know . I have set out my position very clearly in relation to the sale of capability to Israel to defend itself against attack , such as those from Iran , and I be very clear that we will continue to do so . Derby city centre be turn the page on 14 year of conservative decline , with a new performance venue , a new business school and a restore market hall , but across the country we see too many empty shop and quiet high street . [ interruption . ] this Budget be put more money into the pocket of work people to spend support local business . will the Prime Minister commit , contrary to conservative scaremongering , to support and protect the small business that be the beat heart of our high street ? conservative Members can chunter all they like , but my hon . friend be describe their legacy . we be turn that around . we be support small business , we be support the high street and we be rebuild our country , as the Conservatives go backwards . my constituent in Exmouth and Exeter East , and our neighbour across the south - west , be understandably concerned about the rail disruption and potential economic damage that the hs2 construction at Old Oak Common will cause to our region for at least the next seven year . will the Prime Minister please commit to produce a full mitigation plan , as soon as possible , to address those issue and ensure that the south - west do not lose out ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise this issue , which be of real importance to his constituent . we have commit £ 30 million to mitigate the impact of the construction at Old Oak Common . local service will be unaffected and current plan will see service run between Exeter and London Euston . I be very happy to arrange a meeting with the relevant Minister , if the hon . Gentleman want that , to follow up on the particular concern of his constituent . after 14 year of the Tories , our criminal justice system be on its knee , with just 4 . 4 % of domestic assault case record by the police result in a conviction . last Monday be the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women , so will the Prime Minister tell we what he will do to ensure that the criminal justice system work for woman and girl in North West Leicestershire and beyond ? my hon . friend be right to say that the criminal justice system be break by the last government , like everything else they touch in the past 14 year . we take the issue extremely seriously . we have make a commitment to halve violence against woman and girl . we be take a number of measure in relation to that , for example pilot domestic abuse protection order and make it clear that we will introduce a stand - alone offence of spike . those be some of the measure that , frankly , we ought to be able to work on across the House , because the issue be of such importance . Ukraine face a hell of a battle on its eastern front with Russia , but on the home front the challenge be just as great . as it face a harsh winter , it be report just last week that 80 % of Ukraine ' s energy infrastructure be either damage or destroy . they desperately need power generator and associate equipment . will the Prime Minister agree to meet I to discuss the provision of energy aid to this important ally , Ukraine ? this be a very serious issue . we have provide £ 370 million of support to the energy sector in Ukraine , which be be target by the russian strike . I will ensure that my hon . friend get a meeting with the relevant Minister . I be pleased that on this issue there be unity across the House in our defence of Ukraine in the face of Russia ' s aggression . after year of neglect under the previous Conservative Government , GP surgery be at break point and across North East Hampshire they be prepare now for huge bill to pay increase employer ' s national insurance contribution . Hart Health Partnership in Fleet estimate that this will cost it three nursing salary and it have already reduce staff hour by 50 per week , with more cut due in January . can the Prime Minister please tell GPs in my constituency which patient service they should cut in order to pay the bill ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that the NHS be break by the last Administration , and the Darzi report make that absolutely — [ interruption . ] they should hang their head in shame , frankly . we be provide in the Budget £ 22 billion of additional funding this year for our NHS . that be a huge investment that be much welcome and much need across the NHS . we will work with GPs and consult the sector on the service they provide and the money they be entitle to in return . all that funding will be confirm in the usual way . we recognise that Labour be determined to defend the economically disastrous conservative policy of be outside the custom union and single market . however , do the Prime Minister agree with the principle that where it be in our country ' s interest to maintain alignment with EU standard so that we can well sell our product internationally , we align ; and where it be in our interest to diverge , we diverge ? I certainly agree that the deal we get under the last Government be not the good deal that we can get . that be why we be determined to reset the relationship and we have already begin that . obviously , there will be no return to freedom of movement , the customs union or the single market , but beyond that we can increase and improve the situation , whether on trading , security or other co - operation , and we be actively work on that . the final question be from Frank McNally . follow a major fire at the Tradebe depot in my constituency in 2021 , Scotland ' s clinical waste be force to be transport to England due to a complete lack of forward planning . Tradebe be only appoint after the previous contract have collapse , leave human remain languish in a warehouse . it have now be reveal that the spanish company be bail out with £ 5 . 4 million of taxpayer ' money . do the Prime Minister agree that the SNP Government have consistently fail to get a grip of clinical waste disposal and must act appropriately to protect the public purse and ensure public safety ? I do agree with that , and it be the rule rather than the exception when it come to the SNP Government . the challenge for they now be that they have the power to act and they have now be give the money to act . they have run out of excuse . that complete Prime Minister ' s question . Stellantis Luton with permission , Mr Speaker , I wish to make a statement on the announcement by Stellantis yesterday on the future of its manufacturing site in the United Kingdom . I know that yesterday be a dark day for Luton . this be an iconic plant power by a talented workforce . there be very few people in the town who do not know someone who work at the site . I wish to outline the step that the Government have take to try to prevent this outcome , and how we be go to support the industry and the area go forward . the Transport Secretary and I find out about the challenge of this site just 10 day after the election . the global chief executive officer tell we that he feel extremely frustrated by the lack of action from the previous Government , which mean that his desire be to close the Luton plant . since then , we have be involve in intense negotiation with the company to try to find a way to keep the site open . follow these initial meeting , in July of this year the company announce its intention to conduct a review of its operation in response to the significant pressure that it be face in key market . follow the review , the company set out plan on Tuesday , which will see manufacturing at the two current Stellantis plant consolidate into a single location . we be , and be , aware that Stellantis have significant excess capacity across Europe . the company ' s talk of efficiency and investment elsewhere will of course be positive for its bottom line , but that will come as no comfort to the worker affect . for more than a century , Vauxhall as a brand have be synonymous with Luton , and we be bitterly disappointed to hear that this relationship look likely to end . our no . 1 priority be the people of Luton , who will of course be devastate by this decision . news such as this rip through the heart of community , send shock wave beyond those immediately impact — through their family , their community and the business that they support . I grow up in a car community and know what it be like when half the street work at the same site . we have ask the company to urgently share its full plan with we and to work with the Government , so that every single worker who be impact receive the support they deserve . the Department for Work and Pensions stand ready to help anyone affect with a rapid response service design exactly for these kind of scenario . it provide vital support and advice to both employer and their employee face redundancy . I want the House to be aware that we have do everything we possibly can to prevent this closure . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport and I meet Stellantis many time over the summer and again on Tuesday morning to discuss the situation and the acute pressure that the company be face . we have work hard to find a solution that would support the business and ensure that people keep their job , and we confirm in write that we be willing to consider any solution put forward . however , despite our good effort , we have be force to accept that this be ultimately a commercial decision by Stellantis as it respond to wide challenge within the sector . and I will be frank with hon . member : these challenge be not confine to any one company . car manufacturer around the world be battle with increase cost , supply chain issue and change consumer demand in a highly competitive , fast - evolve market . hon . member will know that last week Ford also announce 800 job loss in the UK over the next three year as part of a major restructure programme across the whole of Europe . many of the challenge face by our car manufacturer be global in nature and they can not be resolve by UK Government intervention alone . although this announcement be not what we want or what we work towards , we must not mischaracterise this . it categorically do not signal a retreat by Stellantis from the UK . the plan announce by the company will also see it invest £ 50 million as it consolidate manufacture at its Ellesmere Port plant in Cheshire . hon . member will know that Ellesmere Port be the UK ' s first all - battery electric vehicle plant , and Stellantis ' s decision to bring production of the Vivaro electric van to there be welcome . we will of course continue to work closely with the company on next step of the consolidation process , include the proposal to offer affected worker a relocation package to take up role at Ellesmere Port . the investment be make at Ellesmere Port and elsewhere demonstrate that there be real opportunity for UK manufacturing as part of the move to zero emission vehicle , but the transition have to be properly manage . that require a Government who be on the pitch — something that the car industry finally have in this Government . the Government be determined to support automotive company as they revamp their production line , adjust their business plan , and develop the technology need for the next generation of zero emission vehicle . these car and van be green , clean and essential to our net zero ambition . roughly 30 % of the UK ' s greenhouse gas emission come from car , van and lorry . to tackle that , and wean our country off import fossil fuel , we need zero emission vehicle , but the Government be resolute that the transition must be do in partnership between Government , industry and of course consumer . that be why the Secretary of State for Transport and I be listen closely to the concern of the automotive industry and the wide sector about the transition to electric vehicle , and about the conservative party ' s zero emission vehicle mandate . we hold a roundtable early this month to hear directly from major automotive company , the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders and the charge sector , and in response we will shortly fast - track a consultation on our manifesto commitment to end the sale of new pure petrol and diesel car by 2030 . we will use that consultation to engage with industry on the previous Government ' s ZEV transition mandate , and the flexibility in it , and we will welcome the industry ' s feedback as we move forwards . we want to do everything that we can , together with industry , to secure further investment in the british automotive sector , now and over the long term . that be why in the Budget the Chancellor commit £ 2 billion to research and development and capital funding to support the zero emission vehicle manufacturing sector and supply chain . also , our industrial strategy will give the automotive sector the certainty that it deserve , and will send a clear signal to global boardroom that the Government be in this for the long term . we want to invest alongside they , create a policy environment that allow they to prosper , and help they to do what they do well : bring good job to every part of this country . through the national wealth fund , we be unlock billion in private investment in new green infrastructure , include gigafactorie , and support growth and job creation — not just in the automotive sector , but in the wide economy . we be work with investor to build a globally competitive electric vehicle supply chain in the UK , and so be lay the foundation for growth over the long term . the closure of the Luton plant by Stellantis be a bitter blow to our car industry , to Luton , and to the worker who make Vauxhall a world - class brand , produce world - class car and van , but we must not lose sight of the fact that those vehicle will continue to be design and build here in the UK , at Ellesmere Port . that matter to I , and it matter to the Government . when I say that decarbonisation must not mean deindustrialisation , I mean it . win the race to net zero and have a world - lead automotive sector must go hand in hand . we must never undermine the transition , as the previous Government do , but we will be pragmatic in ensure that regulation and incentive be work as they should . contrived culture war be not what the industry need ; instead , it need a partner in Government ready to look at the practical solution that be necessary . we stand ready to do that , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . this be a sad day for the 1 , 100 worker at the Luton Vauxhall factory , and our thought be first and foremost with they and their family . they be the most recent custodian in a long history that go back to 1905 , when their factory open its door for the first time . Luton - build white van be icon of british business , represent to many the hard graft and skill of million of trader , the self - employ and small business across this country . the opposition stand by those hard - work people . we be on the side of the plant worker , because we know the value of skilled work and the transformative power of british business . the closure of the Luton plant , I fear , be just a down payment on the job that will be lose through this Government ' s relentless attack on industry , their neglect of the reality of business , and their failure to meet their promise not to raise taxis . the Government owe it to the plant ' s worker to at least be honest . this decision be the direct result of a Government policy that be simply unworkable for industry . Stellantis tell we as much when it say that the decision be " make within the context of the … ZEV mandate " . the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders say , " the UK situation be particularly acute with arguably the tough target and most accelerate timeline in the world , " and that " unsustainable business cost undermine UK industry " . the Government ' s policy on zero emission vehicle be a job killer . they say they have be talk since July , so why this panic u - turn today , when it be already too late ? the last Government acknowledge that the previous vehicle mandate be too stringent . we take the decision to push it back , recognise the impact that it would have on industry . we listen to unite the union on this . the Secretary of State ' s party unilaterally reverse those change and bring the deadline forward to 2030 . instead of listen to Unite , he listen to the Member for climate central , the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) . even today , the Secretary of State speak of end the sale of new purely petrol and diesel car by 2030 . he try to slip a subtle change in there , the consequence of which be significant . I welcome the fact that , for once , this Government have listen to business , but he appear to be mislead business at the same time . can he explain exactly what his policy be ? as we see today , there be real cost to these target . instead of have the courage to recognise that he be wrong , his solution appear to be yet another consultation , which be yet to take place . how many automotive business have the Secretary of State speak to about the target ? in any of his conversation with Stellantis , do it ask he at any point to remove the fine ? have he meet the right hon . member for Doncaster North to entreat he to row back from his ideological pursuit of domestic target , which ignore the fact british job be be export to more carbon - intensive economy ? Most of all , we must not ignore the elephant in the room : the timing of the decision . it follow a Budget that declare war on business , with a triple whammy of tax rise that remove incentive for growth and investment ; a £ 25 billion job tax , which have leave boardroom across the country put recruitment and pay rise on hold ; and an Employment Rights Bill that the Secretary of State write while hand in hand with his union paymaster , which be already deter business from hire in Britain . business be ring the alarm bell . the CBI , the British Retail Consortium , ukhospitality and the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders have all say that the pressure on business be too much to swallow . in open letter after open letter , statement after statement , they say that Labour be not on their side . it lie about its plan . it be attack work people , and now it be attack the van that they go to work in . the businessman and woman who give Labour the benefit of the doubt be regret it . when will the Secretary of State listen ? when will his government abandon their attack on british business ? will he lead the charge to change course ? why will he not suspend the fine and target that have lead to today ' s tragedy ? that be the single most dishonest statement I have ever hear in my time in this House . order . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will withdraw that comment . Mr Speaker , I would like to clarify some of the point that the hon . Gentleman raise . the ZEV mandate policy be — [ interruption . ] order . we be on the same side . we will be quiet , win ' t we ? the ZEV mandate policy that the shadow Minister mention be a policy of the previous Government , as he be aware . the change that the previous Government make be not to the ZEV mandate . they be not pragmatic about it . they change the destination and keep the fine , the ramp - up and the threshold exactly the same . they allow no flexibility or pragmatism in how the policy operate , but still undermine the transition , lead to a massive reduction in consumer confidence . he ask whether I have talk to industry . I be the guest speaker at the SMMT dinner last night ; 1 , 000 people be there , from every bit of the automotive sector . they be absolutely clear : they support the destination ; it be how the previous Conservative Government ' s policy operate that be cause they the problem . as I say in the statement , as he would know if he be listen , or have read it in advance , 10 day into this Government , we be tell that the plant be likely to close . Labour have act with pragmatism ; we have be willing to look at any part of the policy to prevent this outcome . the simple truth be that it be too late , after 14 year of failure , to put this right . I say to the hon . gentleman with all politeness that he be out of touch with industry , with worker , and even with what the previous Conservative Government do , and that speak for itself . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . this be indeed a hard day for Luton . I welcome what the Secretary of State share with the House , and the review of the zero emission mandate that he announce . in that review , I hope that he look again at the perversity of the regime that he inherit , which could involve petrol engine maker in this country transfer credit to company like Elon Musk ' s Tesla , and to chinese ev maker . if we really want to ensure a level playing field , why do we not reverse the decision of the last Secretary of State , follow the EU Commission and launch anti - subsidy investigation into chinese ev maker ? the Trade Remedies Authority be ready to go — it just need the Secretary of State to give the green light . I be grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee , include for the exchange that we have in the Committee evidence session yesterday . he be right that because of the position we inherit — the issue with the flexibility in the policy and the fact that no domestic producer be on track — the transfer he describe be effectively the problem . that be why I say that decarbonisation can not mean deindustrialisation . it be precisely what we inherit that we be critique . we do not want to undermine the transition in the way the previous Prime Minister do — anyone in industry in the sector could tell Conservative member how disastrous that be — but we need to give a breathing space , and ensure that the policy have none of the perverse incentive that he describe . on subsidy , the Trade Remedies Authority and the potential response from the UK , we have to bear in mind two thing . first , under the system that we inherit , industry make the application . I have power to do that , as Secretary of State , but they have never be use , to my knowledge . secondly , we must remember that the UK automotive sector be a world - class , export - lead sector . if we be to go down any kind of protectionist route on principle , we would have to bear in mind what it would mean for the market we sell vehicle into . if we sell 80 % of our product abroad , we have to consider the international export position , alongside the domestic market position . if industry make that request , of course that request will be follow up , in accordance with the way the system operate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance copy of his statement . yesterday , like the Secretary of State , I attend the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders annual dinner , and I greatly appreciate the opportunity to hear directly from such an important sector for the british economy . UK car manufacturing bring billion of pound into our economy . it employ hundred of thousand of people directly , and many more thousand across its supply chain . it be at the forefront of the green transition , and of make transport sustainable for the future via electric vehicle . most importantly , the industry be always willing to be frank with I and with other politician ; it reaffirm to I that it see major hurdle on the horizon , and the closure of Vauxhall ' s 100 - year - old factory in Luton be a sign of great trouble ahead . inevitably , the Conservatives will play politic with the announcement , but there be still no apology from they for trash the economy . there be not one moment of reflection that the previous Government ' s policy on electric vehicle be a disaster . the policy simply do not do enough on infrastructure and incentive . the Government therefore need to fix the Tories ' mess . as a starting point , the Government urgently need to work with Vauxhall to mitigate this major shock for the area . the Government have say that they will fast - track a consultation , but it need to be fast - track today . Urgency be the key , so when will that consultation start , and when do the Secretary of State expect it to report ? the previous Government do not do enough to incentivise people to buy electric vehicle , nor do they provide the right infrastructure . what be the Government do to increase sale of electric vehicle and increase the number of charge point in place such as my constituency ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question and observation , and apologise that he have have to hear I speak twice on this topic in the short period of time between last night and today . he have ask the conservative party to apologise for its economic record . that case stand for itself , but I would also like to know , give how urgently this issue be present to we as a new Government , what the last Government be do at the end of their time in office . what do they know ? what conversation be they aware of ? certainly , we inherit a position of extreme frustration from the company , and I can not imagine that that frustration have not be convey in some way to our predecessor . turn to the hon . Gentleman ' s specific question , there be policy in the Budget relate to charge infrastructure — which I recognise be a key part of this issue — as well as £ 2 billion for research and development through the automotive transformation fund and the partnership with business that we use that fund for . obviously , the consultation he ask about will come from the Department for Transport . the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , ask why that consultation be happen , but the previous Government set these policy out in primary legislation , so he know that there be process to follow . any conversation about the threshold in the exist policy would be for my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport to have , but I refer back to my point about how the system work and the flexibility and allowance in , and how we can make sure that we be give automotive manufacturer in the UK a system that let they get to the transition they and the consumer want , but in a way that work with industry to enable that transition to happen for the benefit of the United Kingdom . I call Rachel Hopkins . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a trade union member , as well as someone with friend who have hear that they have lose their job . close the Luton site will damage our local economy , with 600 more job at risk in the supply chain and worker and family receive this devastating news just before Christmas . I welcome the comment of the Secretary of State that decarbonisation must not mean deindustrialisation and the decimation of good , skilled job . will his announcement today move the dial in discussion with Stellantis to help protect the Luton site ? I also welcome his tone — he be take this seriously , compare with Opposition Members — so will he join I in visit worker and their trade union representative at the Luton site to listen to their concern ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for her question . I believe everyone in the House who care about the automotive sector and work people in this country will share the sentiment she have express about the scale of what this decision will mean for Luton . I can absolutely promise she that I will take up her invitation to come with she to the site . I can also promise she the full deployment of my Department and , indeed , all of my colleague across Government to provide whatever help be require . we be in conversation with Stellantis — as be the union , I believe — about the detail of the package that will be present to the workforce , but of course , I will engage closely with my hon . friend and with my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) to make sure that package be to the maximum benefit of her constituent and the wide area . as a Bedfordshire MP , I know how significant the Vauxhall plant be to our local economy and as a local employer . the Secretary of State have explain how devastating this decision will be for family locally , not just in Luton but in my constituency . unfortunately , though , he have say very little about how he be go to support the people who be lose their job . be the Secretary of State concern that this Government ' s tax on job will make it much more difficult to replace these 1 , 000 manufacture job in Bedfordshire ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his sentiment , but the straightforward answer to that question be no . this be a skilled and talented workforce . these worker have not lose their job because of any deficiency on their part ; rather , they have be put in this position by a combination of factor , include the overcapacity in Europe . to be frank , from the minute we come into office , I think the company already intend this closure — it have nothing whatsoever to do with Government policy . I recognise the pressure arise from the exist policy we have inherit , hence the pragmatism on our part as a Government to make sure the policy be work for the transition , but I have no doubt that whether these worker choose to take advantage of the relocation offer or of demand elsewhere , they be brilliant , talented people who will be in demand . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . before I start , I want to put on record that the 1 , 100 people who will be lose their job in Luton today deserve much well than the response from the Conservative Front - Bench representative . it be very far from factual , and very far from serious . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and welcome any support for Vauxhall worker and their family , who be understandably devastate by Stellantis ' s decision , especially this close to Christmas . it follow the closure of the SKF plant in Luton North early this year after a century of manufacturing . like SKF , Vauxhall be , or be , synonymous with Luton . Stellantis ' s callous decision will impact our whole town — our whole region , even — so what support will be offer , not just to the skilled and dedicated Vauxhall worker who be lose their job but to our town as a whole , to cope with the loss of this manufacture giant that Luton help build ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question as well , and echo the sentiment I express to her constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) . this whole decision be regrettable , but its timing be particularly regrettable . as I say in my statement , since the new Government come into power on 5 July , we have do everything we can to try to avoid this decision . I reiterate the offer I have make throughout the negotiating process , both in policy flexibility and potential new Government investment in the site , but regrettably it be not possible to change the decision . I have make clear the support that be available , and I reiterate that promise . I do not want to minimise the impact of this decision in any way , but I believe my hon . friend ' s area be a place of considerable economic strength , with firm in the engineering , aerospace and air travel sector and in the creative industry . there be a lot to be optimistic about for the future , but I recognise that that do not take away the bitterness of this particular blow for Luton at this time . I make it clear that conservative Members regard this as a very grave matter . we be take it seriously , and we be also deal in fact . turn to veracity , then , can we hear whether or not Stellantis raise the question of the eye - water ZEV mandate fine and ask for they to be lift ? yes . in the conversation we have with representative of Stellantis , they raise every aspect of the previous Government ' s policy , include the flexibility , the ability to cap and trade and some of the allowance , and what they would mean for the bottom line . I take those concern seriously , which be why I be willing — in a way that do not undermine the destination — to consult on how this policy work alongside my colleague the Secretary of State for Transport . although I understand the previous Government ' s aspiration and why they introduce this policy , I do not think that when that decision be make , they consider the kind of fall demand that we have see in Europe . we have to work pragmatically across all bit of Government to make sure this policy do not lead to the kind of outcome that many of we who be aware of how exactly this sector work be concern about . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and be greatly sadden by Stellantis ' s decision . may I suggest that plant and platform rationalisation would have be a major factor ? let we be honest : the industry want certainty , but automotive manufacturer face the challenge of meet the ZEV mandate introduce by the last government , which be more stringent than that in Europe and most other market . put simply , consumer uncertainty be introduce by the last government , so I find the remark of the shadow Secretary of State disingenuous . order . " disingenuous " be aim at a particular person . we do not do that . you have be here long enough to know that , and I be sure you want to withdraw that comment immediately . I withdraw it , Mr Speaker . thank you . I urge the Government to introduce more flexibility in the annual target from 2024 to 2029 , introduce consumer incentive , and consider redirect any penalty towards ev charging infrastructure , not to chinese Government car company . my hon . friend make some very good point about the fact that while nearly every major market have policy of this kind , our operate in a different way from how the French , for example , proceed with theirs . I agree that the major failing of the former Prime Minister ' s speech be to keep this policy in place , but change the destination — that make no coherent sense whatsoever . logically , he should have do one or the other ; do both undermine confidence while still not provide the pragmatic flexibility we be talk about today . the specific point that my hon . friend have mention will all be part of the consultation that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport will lead on . I assure the Secretary of State that I would have put the question I be about to ask to a Conservative Minister equally . if all british car manufacturer come together and tell the Government that they could not possibly meet this 2030 goal , would the Government nevertheless persevere in maintain it as an immovable target ? I would recognise the right hon . Gentleman ' s fairness and equity whichever side of the House he be sit on , and I have no doubt about that . we do listen to those in industry and we have a very close relationship with they , which be why we understand that the destination they want be 2030 . the pressure on the system in the next few year be because of this situation , but — I say this in good faith to Conservative Members — I do not believe that the Ministers at the time consider the full set of european and global economic factor when make these decision . that be why we have to get the balance right . give that we be an export - lead automotive producer , we should also recognise that if we be not ambitious about the transition , we would lose our export market — we would not have anything to sell , because other country have such policy and that be where the consumer be go . this be about how we support the transition , and we be work closely with they industry on that . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a member of Unite the union . I thank the Secretary of State for come to the House on such a difficult day for the car industry , and all our thought be with the worker in Luton today . I thank he for the work he be do in engage with the industry and with union on a well way forward on electric vehicle target . this news be really disappointing , but do he agree that we can and should be positive about the future of the automotive industry in this country ? it matter to I locally as the MP for many business in the automotive supply chain , as I know it also matter to many member across the House . I thoroughly agree with the content and sentiment of my hon . friend ' s question . the support this Government be commit to be about that transition , but we should be excite by what british manufacturer such as Jaguar Land Rover , Nissan and Toyota be do , and at the luxury end of the market , about McLaren and Rolls - Royce supercar . I could mention all of our iconic brand , and there be a lot of exciting thing go on . if hon . member be not aware of that , all those manufacturer be more than happy to host member of Parliament come to visit , so I encourage people to do so . however , they will explain the pressure they be under in the short term , and they will endorse the change of policy this Government be put forward . the Electric Vehicle Association say that 14 non - governmental organisation , think - tank and campaign group be advocate for uphold the ZEV mandate . we have just see the most devastating storm , which have be dangerously accelerate by climate change . I know that the Government know that net zero be not negotiable . the previous Government persistently undermine the motor manufacturing industry . will this Government listen to the Electric Vehicle Association , which , after all , be support this government in their ambition to get to net zero ? I genuinely appreciate the question come from that perspective , but this be not just about NGOs . we have be in close contact with big business about charge infrastructure , and I understand the importance of that . I want to make it clear that that be why we be not undermine transition , but be ambitious with the industry about where we will get to . nothing we propose as a Government will itself reduce or limit the deployment of electric vehicle . what I be talk about , and what we be talk about as a Government , be look at how , for instance , the flexibility in the system operate . we be do everything we can , alongside industry , to get to that destination . I want nothing to do with the approach of the previous Government , which have a really detrimental effect on the industry , as it will tell any hon . Member very clearly . I be listen to what it mean to have this change in economic circumstance in relation to private demand for electric vehicle , and I want to work with industry to get to the place or the destination that I think we both strongly support . the previous Government be warn before the election , include multiple time in this Chamber , about the damage they be do to the car industry . the constant change of policy on net zero , miss target on the roll - out of charge point and the failure to even allocate the rapid charging fund have all undermine consumer confidence . will my right hon . friend make sure that , as soon as possible after his review , he balance the need of manufacturer of car and van with the need of consumer ? I believe my hon . friend ' s analysis be absolutely right , and he and I be in the Chamber on several occasion when that case be make to the previous Government . the intervention from the former Prime Minister be not base on any kind of business or economic logic , but be an attempt to create some sort of wedge issue before the election . frankly , that do they absolutely no good , because people see straight through it . I say again that to change the deadline , but keep the exist threshold in place up until 2030 be the bad of all world — it really do have a negative impact on consumer confidence — and we will never repeat those mistake . the Secretary of State say in his statement that , at the time of the election , Stellantis be minded to close the plant . however , since the election we have have the Budget , which have impose £ 25 billion of increase taxis on business , and the Employment Rights Bill , which will also increase cost on business enormously . both have lead directly to a collapse in business confidence . do the Secretary of State think that those decision help Stellantis to stay or go ? I can tell the hon . member categorically that those decision have no impact whatsoever . this be the crucial point . I hear Conservative member say this , but do they have any idea about employment condition in the automotive sector ? those condition be well above the floor that the Employment Rights Bill will raise they to in the United Kingdom . they should get out and talk to industry and have such conversation — please . to be clear , on the wide point the hon . Member make about business confidence , I recognise that the outrageous inheritance this Government walk in on , with Conservative Ministers not even plan to say how they would pay for the promise they have make , create speculation about where the revenue would come from . I regret the fact that we have to make difficult decision . ideally , we would not have want to make those decision , but we be the people fix the foundation and clear up the mess the conservative party leave behind . there can be no long - term prosperity unless we have a serious Government willing to do that . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in pay tribute to my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) , who be a fierce champion for her constituent . do the Secretary of State agree that the news yesterday only highlight far the urgent need for a UK industrial strategy , and demonstrate the challenge that UK industry face under the last government without such a strategy in place ? I absolutely echo my hon . friend ' s sentiment about my hon . friend the Member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire , and I very much agree with her statement about a UK industrial strategy . there have be and be policy relevant to the automotive sector , but what we have lack for a long time , across a range of key sector in the UK , be confidence and certainty that those plan will remain . People have talk during this statement about the action of the previous Prime Minister in that intervention , but that be exactly the opposite of what be require for long - term policy . the advanced manufacturing sector be one of the eight sector in our industrial strategy . it be a sector of tremendous strength in the United Kingdom , and our intention be to build on that and grow it to deliver even more success in future , which be why it be such a fundamental part of our plan . I commiserate with the worker in Luton who will lose their job . if Vauxhall be synonymous with Luton , Ford be synonymous with Essex . the Secretary of State refer to 800 Ford job loss , include at its research centre at Dunton , where many of my Rayleigh and Wickford constituent work . on electric vehicle specifically , I be a free trader by instinct , but what China be do in that area be way beyond normal competitive practice . it be dump electric vehicle very cheaply on world market , a point highlight by the Chairman of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) . what specifically do the Government intend to do about that to maintain fair competition and give british company , include Ford and Vauxhall , a fair chance to compete ? first , let I reiterate my word about the right hon . member ' s constituent and the situation at Ford . I have face this accusation before , but if anyone think the Government be somehow only listen to one part of industry or be respond to special pleading , the announcement by Ford follow by what we have have from Stellantis this week be proof that we do need to move , to listen and to look at some of the policy we inherit and make sure they be work as they should . I reiterate my early comment to the Chair of the Select Committee . we have not change the Trade Remedies Authority and the system we inherit . if Ford or any other company want to make a referral against unfair competitive practice , it can do that , but such a request have not come from any part of the industry to date . I would not for a second describe the chinese economy as one that operate on the market principle with which we be familiar , but we have to be aware that the fundamental threat from China come from its commitment to research and development , innovation , high - tech solution and be able to manufacture at scale . we be kid ourselves if we think the threat be just unfair competition . that economy have an incredible level of ambition for the future , which be why we have to raise our game as well . many of my constituent will be impact by this deeply worrying announcement , so can the Secretary of State confirm what discussion he be have with trade union on this specific subject and what plan he have to mitigate the job loss for resident of North East Hertfordshire ? again , I recognise the situation face my hon . friend ' s constituent , and there will be support on offer from the Government . he ask specifically about conversation with trade union . I can confirm that I have several conversation just yesterday — for instance , with Sharon Graham , the general secretary of Unite — to ensure that what the Government be do and what be be negotiate by the recognise union on behalf of the workforce be consistent . I recognise that for many people in the local area , the offer of relocation as part of the deal will not be attractive , as people have link , family and other situation . however , as the detail emerge , I promise that I will keep the House and Members of Parliament update , and work closely with they to ensure that it be everything it can be . let we be honest : these job loss be a direct result of net zero and the previous Government ' s electric vehicle target . be the Secretary of State aware that car manufacturer across Europe be lose fortune on ev production ? they be try to delay target , and what we be witness be just the beginning of the slow , agonising , painful and tragic destruction of hundred of thousand of direct and indirect job in the UK automotive industry . I certainly agree that we should be honest , and the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the UK automotive sector be simply not correct . all I ask he to do be this : do not listen to the Government or even the opposition , but go and speak to the industry and the firm involve . he should ask they about their investment plan , and find out why he be so out of touch with industry sentiment . many of the problem in some other european country have come from a lack of ambition on transition . fundamentally , if we be sell 80 % of what we make in the UK to other market , there be no long - term market for internal combustion engine and we must recognise that . again , the hon . Gentleman should not take it from the government ; he should take it from industry . I be afraid that on this one , as with our exchange on steel a few month ago , he be just out of touch with what consumer and business want . do my right hon . friend agree that unlike the conservative party , this Labour Government do not regard the word " industrial strategy " as anathema ? do he agree that UK industry in general , and the automotive sector specifically , suffer under the previous Government due to their laissez - faire stand - aside approach ? I very much believe that industrial strategy be essential to the future of the United Kingdom . I hope that this would be support on a cross - party basis , and I see no reason why Conservative Members , or anyone else , would not support an industrial strategy . indeed , some conservative Members , or their predecessor , hold position similar to the one I hold . they get this and believe in it , and do quite a good job in some difficult circumstance within the conservative party . yes , an industrial strategy be essential to this Government , and I hope the whole House will get behind our plan for Invest 2035 . the response from industry have be superb . it be what we need as a country , and we should all get behind that . it be clearly a sad day for Luton and worker there , but the Secretary of State must remember that this be not just about Luton but about the whole car manufacturing industry , and worker up and down the country in that industry will be say , " be I go to be next ? " will the Secretary of State set out his position on conversation that he be have with other car manufacturer to ensure that the same thing do not happen to they ? I reiterate the point I make in my statement : this be about the whole sector , and while we walk in to find a certain position with this plant when we form the Government on 5 July , we recognise that there be also sector - wide issue . that be why we have be have these conversation , and why we be willing to show pragmatism and change some of the policy we have inherit to ensure that they be work for british industry . the hon . Gentleman ask about specific conversation . as I say in my statement , just last week we have a meeting with all the major UK - base original equipment manufacturer and wide representative of the sector to talk about the flexibility that might be require to make this policy work in a way that do not undermine british industry , but get we to a common destination for industry , Government and consumer together . that be exactly what we be do , and whatever Conservative member feel about the previous Government ' s policy , I ask they to get behind that ambition . success in the transition to electrical vehicle be vital for the west country and Somerset in particular , with the new Agratas battery plant that be come to Somerset and the port of Bristol , through which go 500 , 000 vehicle a year . will the Secretary of State please act to support consumer and consumer confidence by restore the plug - in grant ? I assure the hon . member that I will do everything I can to bolster consumer confidence . I say all the time that product make in the United Kingdom be great . if people be unaware of just how great they be , they should book themselves a test drive , or visit the production line and see how brilliant they be . the Agratas factory be an incredible investment and will be significant . I have always say that for the long - term future of this sector we must make battery in the United Kingdom . over the long term , vehicle will be make where the battery be make , and that be a key part of the industrial strategy for the sector . I can not make an announcement on the plug - in grant as that be not cover by the Department for Business and Trade , but I confirm to the hon . member that across the Government , whether in the Treasury , the Department for Transport or the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , we be all unite in want to make the transition a success , and we be willing to listen to hon . member like herself and to industry about the policy that be necessary to do that . in his statement , the Secretary of State mention the job loss at Ford in Dunton in my constituency , and I thank the Minister for Industry for speak to I on the phone early this week about that . I welcome the fast track of the review that the Secretary of State be put forward . I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) and the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , and I have speak to manufacturer about potential chinese electric car dumping in the UK . will the Secretary of State comment on that ? concern have also be raise with I by local car manufacturer about the increase in vehicle excise duty on some model in the Budget . be there any possibility that some of those measure could be look at again , as they be have an impact on the demand for such vehicle in the UK ? I be grateful that we have be able to get the right hon . gentleman some time with minister regard the serious situation affect his constituent . member of this Government will always take that seriously , as I believe Ministers do under the previous Administration . Vehicle excise duty be a question for the Treasury and the Chancellor , but the differential that exist from change in the Budget between internal combustion engine and electric vehicle be one of the demand incentive that now exist within the system . everyone would recognise that the Government should do everything they can to support industry during the transition , and such measure be part of the answer . if the right hon . Gentleman have specific concern , we will always be willing to listen to those . the Secretary of State be robust in his criticism of the previous Government and their approach to the zero emission vehicle mandate , but be he one of the 141 Labour mp who vote for the ZEV mandate ? let I be clear : we work constructively on the ZEV mandate that the previous Conservative Government put forward . I believe in incentive towards the transition . I be not argue against that — I react to the sheer brass neck of those on the Opposition Front Bench , who somehow do not even recognise that it be their policy that we be willing to change , and present the argument as if it be the other way round . I will be robust in say that the fact be as they be when those on the Opposition Front Bench be not willing to accept they . we want this transition to work . this be not about the destination or even the threshold ; this be about the flexibility , how the policy operate , and what that mean for market condition in the United Kingdom . that be an entirely reasonable and proper response to what we find walk through the door as a new government , and I see no reason why people can not pragmatically get on board and support that . one thing stop some of my constituent from transition to electric vehicle be a lack of access to charge point . as a constituency neighbour , the Secretary of State will know that some of the housing stock in my patch lend itself more easily to personalised charging point than other part . what more can the Government do to ensure that everyone can access charge point to make the transition to EVs ? I agree that that be one concern that consumer have . the principal concern for consumer on EV take - up be the cost of the vehicle . the hon . Member will know from our constituency that in some place , it be difficult to envisage the kind of infrastructure that people take for grant in area that have more capacity to have it build into property and driveway . there be about 70 , 000 public EV charger in the United Kingdom , and there be not always equity across different part of the country . a lot of people be surprised to learn that we have more public charger than Norway , for instance , which be very much the leader in electric vehicle roll - out . there be money in the Budget to expand the roll - out of charge point and build on the 70 , 000 already in place , but the hon . member be right to say that that be a key concern . we must consider not just the overall number of charge point , but the equity of those around the country , and I promise that the Department for Transport be interested in that . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and in particular for his honesty . it be important to have that when we look at the bleak thing we have before we . the Secretary of State will understand that with the cost of living crisis that our constituent be struggle through , the last thing on their mind be to afford — forgive I — an all - singing , all - dance electric car ; they be clearly struggle to pay their electric bill . the closure of the plant , which highlight the lack of passion for electric car , can come as no surprise . what can the Government do to make electric car affordable for everyone , which would enhance the need for car manufacturer once again ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question and the way in which he put it . he be right that cost of live concern be paramount . we have also get to recognise that the cost of petrol and diesel be often a key consideration in overall household finance . the hon . Member ask specifically about what we can do to bring down the cost . it be about co - invest with industry in the most efficient form of production . he mention an all - singing , all - dance ev , but there be a whole range of vehicle available . many of our producer have lead on family car . the Nissan Leaf be a great example of that , make by some of my former school friend in Sunderland . we should get behind that and talk about how great those product be . but , fundamentally , we need now to bring down not just the cost of the charge infrastructure but the unit cost . that can be do only by investment in efficient production and scale production . that be why the destination be so important . work with industry on that destination be key to deliver the outcome that I think he and I want . Respect Orders and Antisocial Behaviour with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the Government ' s action to tackle antisocial behaviour . from residential neighbourhood to busy high street , from roll countryside to city centre and from idyllic village to bustling town , the place of Britain should be a source of local pride . as well as be safe , they should feel safe for those who live and work in they , yet the dismal reality be that in too many area the opposite be true . in the last year of the previous Government , shop theft soar by 29 % to a 20 - year high , street theft surge by 40 % and antisocial behaviour reach new height in our town and city . that be the conservative party ' s legacy on law and order . up and down the country , people feel uneasy or even unsafe . Unruly gang roam the street , create intimidation and fear , noisy off - road vehicle speed around , disturb the peace , illegal drug be abuse with brazenness , public space be awash with litter and graffiti , and an epidemic of shop theft be plague retailer big and small while their staff be subject to intolerable level of abuse and violence . at its core , this be about respect : respect between citizen , respect for our society and the expectation underpin it , and respect for the rule of law . all those be weave into the fabric of our democracy , but , after year of neglect , that fabric have become worn . we see a disgraceful illustration of that in the summer when serious disorder erupt in some town and city . we see it on a small scale every day as decent , law - abide people suffer due to the selfishness of other . More than a third of people — 36 % — in England and Wales report experience or witness some type of antisocial behaviour in their local area , while about a million incident of antisocial behaviour be record by police in the year to June 2024 . we must never make the mistake of dismiss this menace as low - level or trivial ; to do so would be an insult to the victim . it may manifest itself in different way in different area , but wherever and however it occur there be an adverse impact on neighbourhood and community . antisocial behaviour chip away at people ' s sense of pride and confidence in their local area . it ruin their enjoyment of public space . for those affect by the most serious and persistent case , their quality of life be damage . one victim quote in a report on antisocial behaviour publish recently by the Victims Commissioner say this : " every day I ' m cry … it make I anxious … and it actually make I physically sick . " another say : " it ' s totally isolate and nobody can understand the pressure it put on you . " I be sure that all hon . member across the House will be familiar with account like those from the all - too - frequent interaction we have with our constituent on these issue . early this month , I visit Leyton in east London , where I hear from local councillor about the importance of partner work together to tackle antisocial behaviour . more recently , the Home Secretary and I meet victim of antisocial behaviour and shop theft , Annie Valentine and Brian Roberts from Blackpool and Tim Nye from Sheffield , to hear about their concern at first hand . this can not go on , and the Government will not stand for it . that be why the Prime Minister have make safe street a central pillar of our agenda for change . a key part of that mission be the work that the Home Secretary be lead alongside police to put visible neighbourhood police back at the heart of our community . by restore that crucial link between police force and the people they serve , we will ensure that resident and business have the reassurance they want and need as well as deter would - be offender . as we implement our neighbourhood policing guarantee , we be determined to tackle antisocial behaviour head on . today , I can update the House on that work . to turn thing around and effectively combat the problem , it be clear that fresh impetus be need , which be why we commit in our manifesto to introduce respect order , which will enable tough restriction to be place on the bad adult perpetrator of antisocial behaviour . those subject to a respect order could be ban from a town centre as well as be compel to address the root cause of their behaviour — for example , through mandate alcohol and drug treatment . the order will be apply for by the police , by council or by social housing provider and issue by the court . importantly , there will be a power of arrest available for all suspect breach , protect community and town centre from further harm . we be go even far : anyone who breach a respect order will have commit a criminal offence and may face up to two year ' imprisonment , an unlimited fine or a community order . these new power will be pilot first to ensure that they be as effective as possible . we will also crack down on the scourge of off - road bike in public park , dangerous e - scooter on pavement and street racing , all of which inflict misery on local community . under strengthened police power , officer will no long be require to issue a warning before seize vehicle involve in antisocial behaviour . retail crime harm life and livelihood and be must deal with as the serious threat that it be . we will introduce a new , specific offence of assault a retail worker and we will end the effective immunity for shop theft of good under £ 200 . the task of make our country safe will not be complete overnight , but this be a Government of action . the work of change be under way and , as we step up this vital effort , we be guide by the simple and unshakeable belief that our street belong to the decent , law - abide majority . for far too long , gang , yob and thief have be run amok , and that be not go to happen any more . under this Government , the safety and security of the public will always come first . we will be unrelenting in our mission to restore respect and take back our street . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for her statement and for advance sight of it . it be not right that anyone should live in fear of intimidation in the place that they call home . antisocial behaviour have real consequence — it can ruin community and prevent people from make the most of their local area . antisocial behaviour can make woman and girl feel unsafe walk home at night , and it can have a huge impact on shop and business if customer be leave feel unsafe visit their high street and town centre . we welcome any focus on antisocial behaviour and effort to tackle it , but tackle it require more than a press release or a rebrand . those in the sector have describe the propose respect order as wholly unnecessary and near - identical to exist power already hold by the police . we will engage with the Government as proposal be bring forward , but we be keen to see meaningful action rather than just the renaming of public space protection order and criminal behaviour order . change name will not change outcome . the last Government launch the antisocial behaviour action plan , back by £ 160 million worth of funding and over 100 , 000 hour of police and other uniformed patrol , undertake to target antisocial behaviour hotspot . as of February 2024 , our plan lead to nearly 600 additional arrest , close to 1 , 500 stop and search and around 700 use of antisocial behaviour power such as community protection order and public protection order . my own labour police and crime commissioner in Cleveland have commend the huge contribution make by the last Government ' s hotspot policing initiative . uniform patrol deliver by local authority warden in Cleveland clock up a total of 7 , 685 hour on the street of Stockton , Hartlepool , Middlesbrough and Redcar . as a result , between 23 September and 24 August , the police report that incident of antisocial behaviour be down by 21 % in hotspot area . we also ban nitrous oxide and increase fine for fly - tipping , litter and graffiti , all of which be a blight on our community . the Conservative Government make sure that the police have the tool to discourage antisocial behaviour , and dedicate funding to support police and crime commissioner to target enforcement in the area where antisocial behaviour be most prevalent . the police play a vital role in tackle antisocial behaviour and keep our community safe . the Conservative Government invest over £ 3 billion , include additional funding each year . that roll into Government grant to enable the recruitment of 20 , 000 additional police officer — a Government priority and a manifesto commitment . by March this year , the police headcount hit 149 , 769 — a record number of police , and 3 , 000 high than previous record . last year , the Conservative Government arrange a £ 922 million increase in funding for frontline police for this financial year — something I hope will be match next year . do the Minister agree that in order to tackle antisocial behaviour , we must ensure that police have the necessary resource and support ? the right hon . Lady speak about Labour ' s manifesto commitment to provide 13 , 000 additional police officer , police community support officer and special , but have fail to set out any of the detail of when those officer will be recruit and which force will receive those additional officer . can she explain how these respect order be different from the fail antisocial behaviour order , or the exist public space protection order or criminal behaviour order ? our action plan put safety , security and a basic respect for other at its heart . will she commit to continue the hotspot police initiative , especially as we can already see the result across the country ? I know I have ask before , but I never quite manage to get an answer : the last Government increase funding for frontline police by £ 922 million for this year — will the Government match that increase next year ? I be grateful to the shadow Minister for acknowledge in his opening comment the effect that antisocial behaviour can have on community and on individual . but during the rest of his response , he seem to have lapse back into that condition that affect a number of right hon . and hon . member on the Opposition Benches : amnesia about what happen over the course of their 14 year in power , include the vicious cut to policing , with over 20 , 000 police officer and thousand of police staff cut . try to ignore the legacy that we have inherit and be have to deal with today be not satisfactory from the Dispatch Box . answer the question , Diana . I be go to answer the question , if the hon . Lady will give I an opportunity to do so . [ interruption . ] I think a little courtesy in the House be helpful . we be talk about antisocial behaviour , and a number of my comment be about respect , which be very important in this House . order . can we have less noise and heckle from the Back Benches ? I have always try to be respectful to all member of this House , and I will now try to deal with some of the point make by the shadow Minister . the most important point for the shadow Minister to understand be that respect order be different from criminal behaviour order — I do not think he quite understand that . criminal behaviour order be attach where there be a conviction , and the Crown Prosecution Service apply in court for that criminal behaviour order . respect order will not require a conviction . they will be make on application to court by council , social housing provider and the police . a power of arrest will be attach if they be breach , and that individual will be bring before the magistrate court if that breach happen . they be different from a criminal behaviour order . they be also different in the sense that they be not community protection notice , which I think the shadow Minister refer to , which be for low - level environmental antisocial behaviour issue . in the conversation I have have with individual in the sector and organisation that work in this field , respect order get a lot of support . we want to pilot they . we want to make sure that they will work fully when we bring they in across the country . I be confident that they will provide the flexibility of a civil injunction , which be what deal with antisocial behaviour at the moment . but if a civil injunction be breach , the police officer have to take the individual to court to prove the breach . there be no automatic power of arrest . that be the difference from the respect order . it combine the flexibility of the civil injunction with the tooth of the criminal behaviour order . I hope that explain to the shadow Minister why respect order be a very positive development to deal with antisocial behaviour . I call the Chair of the Education Select Committee . I welcome the measure that the Minister have set out today and the Government ' s commitment to tackle antisocial behaviour , which be an urgent issue in my constituency , particularly in town centre . but the most urgent issue that we face in tackle these issue be the number of police officer . my hon . friend will be aware that the previous Government allocate funding to recruit police officer , and then withdraw it when the Met be unable to meet its target due to a set of unique challenge in London . can my right hon . friend give her firm assurance that the unique challenge face the Met be fully understand , and that the Government will provide it with the resource that it need to tackle this very serious issue in our community ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . the Met make up almost a quarter of overall policing . it play a very important part in police London , but it also have other responsibility at national level — counter - terrorism and so on . decision on funding be be take at the moment . the House will be inform in the normal way next month about the provisional settlement for policing , but I hear my hon . friend concern very clearly . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson , who know that she have a maximum of two minute . across my constituency , whether in Heaviley , Woodley , Marple or High Lane , illegal off - road biker be a persistent blight on the community . they intimidate people , endanger public safety and be generally noisy , antisocial and really annoying . I be interested to read the Home Secretary ' s comment on respect order over the weekend and the Minister ' s statement today ; I thank the Minister for advanced sight of it . my local Greater Manchester police officer tell I the challenge in tackle these off - road bike , often ride by young people , be not a lack of power , but the difficulty of gather evidence and a lack of tool to identify and actually catch offender , who often evade they on these bike . how will the Government ensure that local police have the time , resource and practical support need to enforce these new measure effectively ? we already know what be most effective at stop crime . it be proper community policing , where officer be visible , trust and out and about in their local neighbourhood — bobby on the beat who know their community and prevent crime every day . the previous Conservative Government decimate frontline police number , leave local force overstretch and make our community less safe . I would welcome detail from the Minister on how the Government plan to address this situation , and in particular the cut to number of police community support officer , who play a crucial role in tackle antisocial behaviour . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her comment and question . first , the specific issue we want to address be give the police the power they need to deal with the antisocial behaviour that be be cause by off - road bike and e - bike . the hon . Lady also speak about what else the police need to be able to implement those change effectively , and I will contact she with more detail on that . I will certainly talk to the police about what more we can do to support they . as to the neighbourhood policing guarantee and our commitment to put 13 , 000 police officer , pcso and special into our neighbourhood , I be sure the hon . Lady will recognise that we be five month into this Government . we be work as hard as we can to get plan in place . we be do this work with policing . we want to ensure that the police be with we on this and that we have everything set up to allow that to happen smoothly , and those announcement will be make in due course . I want to reassure the House that make that happen be probably my no . 1 priority . I welcome the Government ' s plan to introduce respect order to tackle the scourge of antisocial behaviour . I hear from my constituent in Battersea all the time on their concern and worry about antisocial behaviour in part of our community . can the Minister confirm that the new order will also include public drinking and drug use to ensure that our community be safe and free from harm and nuisance ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : we want to address issue such as street drinking and take drug . the whole idea of a respect order will be restrictive in the sense that an individual may be tell that they can no long be in a certain area , such as on the high street , in a town centre or in a park . however , positive condition will also be attach : if there be issue around someone street drinking , they could attend course for alcohol addiction ; they could attend course or treatment for drug addiction ; if it be appropriate , they could attend course on anger . in that way , we will be deal with the problem in the area , but also try to treat the underlying issue with the individual who have cause the antisocial behaviour . I certainly support the Minister ' s intent in bring this forward , but I be still struggle to understand what the material difference be between these respect order and antisocial behaviour order . if it be the case that they be materially different , will the Minister say in what respect they be , and will she say to what extent that will be base on perception by a complainant ? we have recently have considerable controversy around perception of an allegation and its effect in non - crime hate incident , which have cause all manner of problem and bogge the police down in a whole load of controversy . I be sure the Minister would want to avoid that with this particular measure . I say first to the right hon . gentleman that change be make to the antisocial behaviour legislation in 2014 ; in fact , it be weaken . the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats in coalition decide to weaken the antisocial behaviour power that the previous Labour Government have bring in . that be the first thing to mention . what we have end up with be the civil injunction . as I try to explain early on — perhaps I need to do it again , and be a little clear — civil injunction can be issue for antisocial behaviour , but if they be breach by someone behave antisocially in a town centre or on a high street , the police have to go to court to prove the breach . that be the issue . they can not be arrest , and the antisocial behaviour can not be stop at that point . there be a process that have to be go through . with the respect order , there will be an automatic arrest for breach , which mean action can be take far more quickly . that be the key point . the criminal behaviour order , which we discuss early as well , can be attach only to someone who have be convict . those order be about try to nip the antisocial behaviour that be cause " harassment , alarm or distress " — that be the definition that be use . that be the level necessary to be able to apply for a respect order . I hope that explain to the right hon . Gentleman the difference and why we think the way to go forward be to deal with thing through arrest and get people in front of a court if they breach respect order . rise — Order . I say to the Minister that detailed answer be very well enjoy here , but we have a lot of people to get in with this statement . I call a member of the Home Affairs Committee . in a recent survey of resident of Telford , it be overwhelmingly clear that they have have enough of the inaction of the past 14 year . I welcome the respect order come into the police officer toolkit . can the Minister confirm that they will give the authority the power to seize and crush off - road bike , to seize booze off drunken yobs and to deal with those who consume drug in our town centre ? we also need a return to neighbourhood policing , so that we have copper back on the street , patrol their community . I be mindful of your instruction , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can absolutely say that this be about rebuild that neighbourhood presence to put those police officer , pcso and special back in our community and deal with exactly the issue that my hon . friend have raise , with people drink , take drug , ride vehicle and cause harassment , alarm , and distress . I call a member of the Home Affairs Committee . I thank the Minister for her statement and warmly welcome it . she be right to mention neighbourhood policing . do she agree with the Met commissioner , Mark Rowley , that local police station be critical to neighbourhood policing , and whether she will pledge to stop the closure of local police station that occur under the Conservatives and under previous Labour Administrations ? that include Wimbledon police station , which remain under threat six year after I win my judicial review , stop its closure . the hon . Gentleman will know that where police station be locate and how many there be be a matter for police and crime commissioner , or , in the case of the Metropolitan police , for the Mayor of London and the deputy Mayor . those be not decision that I or any Minister would be involve in ; they be operational decision for pcc and the Mayor . I wholeheartedly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement today . every week , I meet resident who very sadly have their life disturb , and sometimes even ruin , by appal crime and antisocial behaviour , so I be delighted that the Minister be bring forward these clearly well think through and well explain measure . would she perhaps consider read for one of the pilot scheme in this very important set of measure ? there be many right hon . and hon . member who be pitch for their constituency to be one of the pilot , and I will certainly add read to the list . antisocial behaviour affect all our constituency , include my constituency of Broxbourne . some antisocial behaviour can be very localise — down a specific street , in a block of flat or between neighbour — and some of the lever to solve that antisocial behaviour lie with housing association . will the Minister outline how we can bring housing association to the table ? they will play a key role in solve and tackle antisocial behaviour . as I say in my remark , housing association and social housing provider will be able to apply for respect order . I ought to say , as well , that the exist civil injunction will be rename as housing injunction , which will deal with that more low - level antisocial behaviour between neighbour . housing association might want to use those as well , but they will be able to use both respect order and housing injunction . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . do she agree that the big boost to antisocial behaviour we have see in recent time be the cut of 21 , 000 police officer by the previous Tory Government , which result in the decimation of our local safe neighbourhood police team ? I really welcome her commitment to bring they back . in addition , the London - hate conservative cut the London police budget , so much so that we have a black hole in the budget now that be force the commissioner to cut officer . can she assure I that she be aware of that and will address it , so that we can start to put safe neighbourhood team back where my constituent in Eltham and Chislehurst want to see they ? it be always helpful to have experience and long - stand Members of Parliament to remind we of what have actually happen , because , as I point out early , there seem to be some amnesia on the Opposition Benches . an estimated 60 , 000 hour of police time be spend on non - crime hate incident in the past 12 month , and we already hear about burglary not be investigate for lack of police time . so , while welcome the description of the problem , how be it to be solve unless chief constable be to be direct to reorder their priority ? the Government have make very clear our priority for police : protect the public , as I talk about today ; rebuild neighbourhood policing ; tackle town centre crime ; tackle antisocial behaviour ; tackle the scourge of knife crime ; and halve violence against woman and girl in the next decade . the Home Secretary have also be very clear about the common - sense approach that need to be adopt when deal with non - crime hate incident . we be work with his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service , and the College of Policing , on how good that can be do . it be vital though — I think the right hon . Gentleman will agree — that police force be able to track and monitor information and intelligence that might be helpful if there be go to be further criminal activity or serious social harm , and community cohesion will be affect . capture that be something police force need to do . in Doncaster , along with many other area across the country , antisocial behaviour , fly - tipping , shoplift and off - road bike be blight our community and our high street . as a former prison officer , I know that in deal with these issue it be critical that we tackle the cause and pathway to crime in the first place . what be the Government do to make it a priority to tackle the cause as well as the crime themselves ? I welcome my hon . friend ; her experience as a former prison officer will be invaluable in this place , bring that knowledge to share in our debate . she be absolutely right ; prevention , which have be ignore for too long , be really important , particularly in relation to young people . that be why we will set up the Young Futures programme — the youth hub — to , as the Home Secretary say , wrap our arm around those teenager who might be get into trouble , make the wrong decision , and get involve in thing that they should not be involve in , and we will have that preventive pathway to ensure that they start to take the right step forward . my constituent Linda , along with other member of my community , be extremely concerned about antisocial behaviour in Burgess Hill . car racing , e - scooter and bike theft be cause fear and distress to resident across the town . as the Minister note in her statement , the impact of that behaviour should not be minimise . I have raise these issue with both Sussex police and the police and crime commissioner . what can the Minister do to ensure that Sussex police have sufficient resource to stop a small number of perpetrator have a disproportionate effect on law - abide constituent across Mid Sussex ? Sussex Members of Parliament be listen very closely to the Minister . announcement on the provisional police settlement will be make in the usual way next month . the Home Secretary have already indicate that an additional half a billion pound will be make available for police . that have already be announce . with regard to the direct figure for Sussex , I be afraid that the hon . Lady and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , will have to wait a few more day . I never think that I would see the day when we have Conservative Members argue against more power to increase the safety of our community up and down the country — it be absolutely gobsmacking . I , for one , absolutely support what the Minister be bring in today in relation to respect order . my constituent feel the impact of antisocial behaviour very keenly , but they will want some assurance from the Minister that there will be sufficient police officer and pcso available to issue respect order in a timely manner . can she do that , please ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . it be rather odd that the picture paint by the opposition be that all the power be there so everything be fine and why do we need to change thing , when it be quite clear to the vast majority of people , I think , that thing be not fine and the power and the legislation be not work as we need they to . that be why we be bring forward these additional respect order and the neighbourhood policing guarantee — the 13 , 000 police officer , special and pcso who we want to have back in our community to actually use the legislation and get antisocial behaviour under control . antisocial behaviour be a blight on our community and I agree that the police should be give the resource to tackle it . in my constituency , Cambridgeshire Constabulary be overstretch . in the past week , the Policing Minister have twice dismiss my question as to whether she would review the police allocation formula so that it receive its fair share of funding , and my constituent have notice . will she review the formula ? if not , how will the Government meet their guarantee for neighbourhood policing ? can I just say to the hon . Gentleman that I have not dismiss anything ? I be very conscious of and take seriously my responsibility in the allocation of resource for police . we have be in power for five month and we have to announce next month the provisional police settlement for 2025 - 26 . those figure will be announce in a few week ' time . as to whether we want to look long term at resource , we of course keep that all under review . but for the moment , the thing I think most mp be concerned about be the allocation for next year . that be what I be work on at the moment . that be the thing the Home Secretary be work on . we be try to do our good and the Home Secretary have already announce an additional half a billion pound for police . do my right hon . friend agree that an important component of ensure that our street belong to law - abide citizen be the good work of council such as mine , for example in provide highly professional community warden with enforcement power , work in partnership with business improvement district ranger and the police ? do she agree that that innovative approach to the antisocial behaviour ecosystem might lend itself to Rugby be high up the list to be a pilot ? I will certainly add Rugby to the list . my hon . friend make an important point about how this can not just be do with the police alone ; it have to be do alongside council . I commend the use of community warden , who be a great resource for community in deal with antisocial behaviour . social housing provider be also key . this have to be about partnership work . I welcome the commitment to neighbourhood policing that will help Cheltenham fight its problem with graffiti and illegal e - bike , but when I talk to my local police commissioner he warn I that he be expect to have to work very hard to maintain the force ' s current headcount because of budgetary pressure in the coming year . can the Minister explain the apparent disconnect between the concern of the commissioner locally and the Government ' s statement today ? I do not think anybody be pretend that we have inherit a positive , rosy economic settlement from the previous Government . we be have to make difficult decision and tough choice . what be very clear be that the security and safety of the british people be the no . 1 issue for this Government , and that the Home Secretary — as I have now say , I think , three time — have already say there be additional funding for police next year . additional funding be put into police force up and down the country this year to fund the pay increase to police officer , which have not be in the budget that the previous Government have set for this year . we have already put in additional money , and we will be do so next year as well . illegal bike be an absolute menace for people in Tilehurst , and indeed for all my constituent . I welcome the tough and swift action that the Government be take on illegal bike and antisocial behaviour , issue about which the Conservatives be clearly far too relaxed when they be in government . as well as associate myself with the request from my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , may I ask the Minister whether there will be new power for the police to seize illegal bike , get they off our street and tackle this terrible problem ? I hear very clearly that those bike , along with off - road motorbike , be a problem up and down the country , and we be look at that . what we can announce today be that we will be get rid of the requirement for a warning , but we be certainly consider what else we need to do to ensure that the problem be deal with properly by the police . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to tackle antisocial behaviour . there be a particular problem in Fore Street , in my constituency , where those who abuse drug and alcohol gather and make a nuisance of themselves . will she please consider add Bridgwater to her list of possible candidate for the pilot scheme ? I must say that I be very pleased to hear a Conservative Member of Parliament ask to be add to our list of pilot area for the respect order . I will certainly do that . I wish to associate myself with the comment that have be make about the scourge of illegal motorbike . they be a particular scourge in community across Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley . one of my favourite pledge in the Labour party ' s manifesto be the pledge to seize those bike without notice and crush they within 48 hour . can the Minister tell we how soon we will get on with crush the bike ? today I be able to say that we be go to do that . my hon . friend will have to wait a little long for the detail and the timetable , but that be certainly my intention . I welcome much of the Minister ' s statement . shoplifting be a significant problem in my constituency , and shop worker in Littleport and Ely have recently tell I how threatened they feel and how stressful it be . what will she do to ensure that our local police — who , as we have hear , be very stretch — have the resource and capacity need to attend shoplifting incident and deal with the criminal ? what I often hear from shopkeeper and shop worker be that they do not report shop theft because they think no one will come and nothing will be do . that be one reason why the neighbourhood police guarantee — bring police officer back to our high street and town and village centre — be so important . those shop worker and shop owner will know that there be a visible police presence to deter but also to deal with those who try to shoplift ; that action will be take against they ; and that there will be consequence for people who steal . we be get rid of the £ 200 threshold and say , " if you steal , that be a criminal offence and there be consequence . " during the riot in the summer , people in my own constituency in Hull be loot in shop , think that there be no consequence . there be consequence for theft . I recently hold a public meeting about the concern rise of antisocial behaviour in Haxby , and I want to thank the deputy mayor of York and North Yorkshire , Jo Coles , Haxby town council , the police and the local community for their effort . do my right hon . friend agree that respect order could play a key role in reduce antisocial behaviour in the town , and will she meet I to discuss this in more detail ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend . I think that what he have describe demonstrate the role of partnership work in deal with antisocial behaviour . rural crime be define as crime and antisocial behaviour occur in rural area , which be very logical , but in my region just 0 . 24 % of staff in the local police force be dedicate to rural crime unit , despite the significant impact on community in place such as Brecon and Ystradgynlais . do the Minister agree with the liberal Democrat proposal that every police force should have a specialist co - ordinator in its rural crime team , in line with recommendation from the National Rural Crime Network ? I take crime , urban or rural , very seriously . the neighbourhood policing guarantee , for example , be not just about urban area ; it have to cover rural area as well . People live in rural area should feel that when they need the police , the police will come , and that there be a police presence in their community . I be happy to discuss rural crime far with the hon . Gentleman , if there be specific point that he wish to raise with I . since I be elect , there have be a constant stream of antisocial behaviour incident across the town that I represent , at Hindley Town and Ashton Athletic football club and in Platt Bridge and Winstanley . it really dent people ' s pride in the town that they live in , as the Minister say . do she agree that the capacity for council and housing association to apply for and issue respect order be a vital part of the new power that she have announce today ? yes , I absolutely agree . this be not just about the police ; it have to involve council , social housing provider and the other agency that will tackle , together , the scourge of antisocial behaviour . I thank the Minister for her statement . do she agree that antisocial behaviour be a plague throughout the United Kingdom , and that the remedy lie across several Departments ? obviously an increase in community policing be vital , but so too be youth sector funding to create safe space for our young people . do she agree that we need investment across multiple Departments , deal with matter from police to education to community ? what discussion have she have with her Cabinet colleague to ascertain whether such a joined - up approach could be more effective ? the hon . Gentleman have express very eloquently the role of mission - lead government that this party be take on . the mission on safe street , which cover antisocial behaviour , be cross - governmental . it be not just about the Home Office , although we be the lead Government body in this context ; it have to encompass all the other part of Government , as well as local authority and housing provider . this have to be a partnership , and it have to be cross - governmental . antisocial behaviour be sadly a blight on our town centre in St Austell , but also on many small clay country village in my constituency . I therefore welcome the Minister ' s announcement on respect order , and invite the Government to pilot they in St Austell . what impact do the Minister expect these order to have , when it come to revitalise our once thriving town centre ? I will add my hon . friend ' s constituency to the list . our purpose in pilot respect order be to see what work and what the effect be , but we be confident that the ability to arrest someone who breach an order will speed thing up . we hear the complaint that when people be subject to antisocial behaviour order , there have to be a long process of go to court and prove the breach . this be about arrest and deal with the person who breach an order quickly . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement , not just as a former Crown prosecutor but because the town in my constituency be sadly not immune from antisocial behaviour . we often see a small group of people repeatedly commit this offence in our town . do the Minister agree that respect order will be a useful intervention tool for deal with repeat offender , and for tackle the root cause of their behaviour ? I welcome my hon . friend to these exchange . her experience as a former Crown prosecutor be valuable and useful . she be right : it be usually a small group of people who engage in antisocial behaviour . we will deal with prolific offender not just by use respect order but by give they something positive that they need , such as drug or alcohol addiction treatment or anger management course , to try to solve the underlie problem . resident in Kenrick Way , in West Brom , dread Friday and Saturday night , because selfish people race their car up and down the street , cause deafen noise and extremely dangerous crash . this have be go on for year and year , despite the effort of Sandwell council and the West Midlands police . what will today ' s announcement do to stop the racer and give resident in West Brom some peace and quiet ? my hon . friend raise an issue that we have talk about a lot this afternoon . under the law at the moment , there have to be a warning give before any action can be take to deal with people who be race and cause harm and distress with the vehicle that they be use . this be about get rid of the requirement for a warning , so that action can be take in a far more speedy way . may I add St Helens to the list of place that be interested in be a pilot area ? I warmly welcome today ' s announcement . as the Minister and other have say , there be nothing low - level about antisocial behaviour . it can destroy life and community , and it be right that we take it seriously . I be particularly pleased to hear about the step take to protect shop worker , and to hear that shoplifting will be take seriously . can the Minister tell I a bit more about how that might help shop worker in St Helens North ? do she agree that although it be great that we be give the police more power to tackle antisocial behaviour , they need resource to make a real difference in our community ? I will certainly add my hon . friend ' s constituency to the list — it be grow , which be always positive . proposal on retail crime and assault on retail worker will be include in the crime and police Bill next year . it be important to remember that people have campaign for a stand - alone offence for many year , and there be now cross - party support for the offence , thank to the campaigning of USDAW and the Co - op over many year . I welcome today ' s announcement on respect order , which will be extremely welcome news for my constituent in Leeds South West and Morley . it be so good to finally have a Government who will deal with the scourge of antisocial behaviour . I have sit with constituent who have be in tear as they explain how their neighbour be make their life hell . constituent have tell I , at my surgery , that the police and the council ' s antisocial behaviour team have no power to act . respect order finally offer we the chance to change that . in the Minister ' s statement , she say that respect order would be reserve for the bad offender . I can think of several people who would fit that criterion , so what reassurance will she give my constituent that it will be apply as liberally as possible ? the definition that I give early — cause harassment , alarm or distress — will be use when respect order be apply for . I ought to say that civil injunction will remain in place when it come to housing , so those can be use . respect order will be only for adult ; for young people , the youth injunction will still be available , and there be sanction within that . there will be a range of way that antisocial behaviour can be tackle , use either respect order or the reform civil injunction . Hemel Hempstead have some of the bad antisocial behaviour in our part of the county . we have hotspot such as Livingstone Walk , Hosking Court , Waveney and Swallowfields , where there be issue such as drug use , boy racer with modify exhaust , abandon vehicle , shoplift and drunken noise ; I have see the evidence of that while out on the street with local police . fortunately , Hemel police be carry out a great pilot project in Grovehill to try to clear the area , rebuild relation and deal with the thug there . could the Policing Minister kindly outline how the new respect order will help Hemel police to do that great work , and will she join I in pay tribute to they for the work that they do to clean up our street ? I will absolutely join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the police and other partner agency , such as council and housing association , for the work that they already do . there be a great deal of good work go on around the country , and we need to build on that and give the police and other the power that they need to take the action that they want to take on antisocial behaviour , which have just grow and grow in recent time . I wonder whether my hon . friend would like to add his constituency to the list of pilot area . for too many community , antisocial behaviour have become a nightmare , but my constituent in Bracknell be literally lose sleep over noisy and dangerous off - road bike , which be be drive on footpath , often late at night , so they will really welcome the tough new power announce in the statement . do the Minister believe that those power will finally allow my constituent to get a good night ' s sleep ? we all know the importance of a good night ' s sleep , so I hope very much that respect order will go some way towards deliver that . there may be additional thing that we need to do , but it be at least a start to remove the requirement for a warning before action can be take to get these vehicle off our road , park and pavement , because they be cause such problem . we have save the good till last . I call Andrew Pakes . I think there be an unwritten rule in this House that whoever ask the last question get to be top of the pilot list . give its beautiful cathedral and wonderful diversity , Peterborough city centre be the jewel in Cambridgeshire ' s crown , as I be sure that county colleague present will agree , but we be be let down by the rise in antisocial behaviour . shoplifting , street drinking , theft and intimidation be the big issue raise with I by resident , business and Peterborough Positive , our fantastic business improvement district . do the Minister recognise the sheer anger that the british public feel about the fact that antisocial behaviour have not be deal with , and about the way that they have be ghost by the Conservative party , which , when it come to deal with antisocial behaviour , tell they that they never have it so good ? will she explain to the House how the measure announce today will help restore trust and faith in the ability of the Government to address antisocial behaviour ? my hon . friend be the last to ask a question , but it be a very important one . he be absolutely right : there be a huge amount of anger about how thing be allow to get to this point . there be complacency around the fact that there have be huge cut to police over the year , and there have not be the investment in neighbourhood police that we need . where we be be testament to that , and it be why we have to tackle antisocial behaviour . my hon . friend also make an important point about business , which be part of how we tackle the scourge of antisocial behaviour in town centre . we be work with business , and be encourage small business to team up with bid and other group in their city centre , so that they work together and get information to help they deal with shoplifting . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . at Northern Ireland Office question this morning , there be not a single MP from Northern Ireland on the Order Paper . this have happen before . I have no criticism whatsoever of Mr Speaker , who usually succeed in get in Northern Ireland mps on supplementary question . I understand that the number game work against we , but can the arrangement be review ? I notice that almost every person list on the Order Paper for Scotland Office question next week be a Scottish MP , which be as it should be . it would be nice if occasionally we get a Northern Ireland MP on the Order Paper for Northern Ireland Office question . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . as he know , the selection of substantive question on the Order Paper be the outcome of a random shuffle of the name of member who table a question , which be conduct by the Table Office . Mr Speaker make sure that a number of Northern Ireland Members be call to ask supplementarie this morning . may I suggest to the hon . member that he might like to raise this matter with the Modernisation Committee ? E - scooter ( Review and Awareness ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to commission and publish a review of the legislation and guidance relate to e - scooter ; to place a duty on the Secretary of State to promote public awareness of legislation relate to the use of e - scooter ; and for connected purpose . almost two year to the day since I bring the first debate to this House on the antisocial use of e - bike and e - scooter — it be quite pertinent to be follow the statement on respect order , and I too would be interested in have a trial area ; just get that in there — I be introduce this Bill today to highlight an issue of much concern to the many constituent in Newport East who frequently raise with I the antisocial and sometimes dangerous use of e - scooter and e - bike . I would like to thank those resident and Newport councillor , particularly in hotspot area in my constituency , for talk to I about this . as we have all see , the landscape on our road have change dramatically over recent year . the use of e - scooter have explode — it be estimate last year that e - scooter ownership be now close to 1 million in England alone — but legislation have just not keep up with this trend . our legislation be year behind that of other country . the Bill be about ask the Government to address that quickly — I know that there have be positive move in that direction — and , particularly as we approach Christmas , when many people may be tempt to buy they as present , to remind potential buyer of the law . it be fair to say at the outset that there be clearly a place for e - scooter in the transport mix . they can play a positive role in increase transport choice while reduce pollution and congestion . they be particularly important for young people with low spending power and car ownership . as one of my constituent put it : " I use one as a disabled person as I find it easy than a mobility scooter . I be reluctant to go out and about more for fear of lose it . it ' s a cheap form of transport for the low pay and safety will only improve with legislation " . however , for many , e - scooter be a source of great anxiety . as I say early , many people have raise this with I , include local scout group and other . recently , I ask constituent more widely for their thought , and here be some of their quote . one say : " some of the people ride these scooter and e - bike have no regard for other people or the elderly " . another say : " the majority ruin it for the few that use they correctly . they be frequently use for blatant drug run and by people who have zero concern for pedestrian or driver safety . " an old resident of nearly 75 tell I of her experience of nearly get knock over while walk her dog . she say that it really frighten she , while another say : " my boy be a full - time wheelchair user . I have lose count of the amount of time we have nearly collide with e - bike and scooter travel at speed " on pavement . another resident say that " unfortunately . . . they be often use for drug run . rider have mask over their face and cut over the roundabout at the bottom of Somerton Bridge with no due care and attention to other driver and pedestrian . " of course , we should also consider the impact on the visually impaired , which be often highlight by the Royal National Institute of Blind People . I have mention this in a previous debate that I hold on the matter . those complaint be from constituent who live in Newport , where e - scooter use be illegal , because e - scooter usage be only legal on our road and cycleway as part of a public hire scheme where a trial be take place . trial have be run in location across England since 2020 , but there be none that I know of in Wales and Scotland , where I believe there be a lack of consultation by the last Government with the devolved government . there be currently 19 location where trial be active . if someone hire a scooter as part of a trial , there be restriction on weight and on speed , with a maximum of 15 . 5 mph , and the scooter have to have light . the person have to have a valid drive licence and the hire scheme operator must have a motor vehicle insurance policy . they must meet those legal requirement . beyond these hire scheme , however , while the sale of e - scooter be legal , the use of a privately own e - scooter on public land , include road , pavement and cycle route , be illegal and can lead to prosecution . despite this legal position , sale have rapidly increase . the problem be that because they be unregulated there be no limit on speed , with some for sale online capable of be tamper with and reach up to 60 mph ; there be no requirement for they to have light , sound or any audible alert system ; there be no requirement for people to wear helmet ; there be no available insurance or requirement around their maintenance ; and there be no restriction on their weight , with some e - scooter report to weigh up to 70 kg . these be clearly not toy , and when collision occur , victim can face serious injury . it be the Motor Insurers Bureau that pick up the bill for any compensation , thereby push up motor insurance premium for all . in 2023 , the year for which the most recent figure be available , there be almost 1 , 300 collision involve e - scooter , and six death . I know that this issue have be raise with many hon . member , include my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hall Green and Moseley ( Tahir Ali ) , who have a particular issue involve an accident recently . there be also the issue of toxic lithium battery fire , with an e - bike or e - scooter fire occur once every two day in London in 2023 . as the Minister say in a Westminster Hall debate before the election , they be often the result of unregulated e - scooter , buy from retailer abroad , that fail to meet UK safety standard . on that point , I strongly welcome the Government ' s commitment to introduce the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill to address this fire risk . I also welcome confirmation this week from the Home Secretary and Ministers regard the implementation of Labour ' s manifesto pledge to strengthen the law around vehicle use for antisocial behaviour so that they can be seize when such behaviour occur without the police have to go through a lengthy process of issue multiple warning that delay action . I very much want to thank Gwent police , which be do what it can in tough circumstance to crack down on this . it have have success in seize a number of e - scooter and e - bike engage in antisocial behaviour and criminality , particularly drug dealing . the penalty can include confiscation , £ 300 fine , six point on a drive licence and a criminal record . gwent police have also take the lead with social medium campaign around Christmas , but I would welcome more back - up from the Department for Transport and the Home Office on enforcement and public awareness campaign , particularly in the run - up to Christmas . this very much form part of today ' s Bill . buy e - scooter online be easy . just a cursory search bring up well - know high street retailer that display reasonably prominent disclaimer but then go on to describe the e - scooter as " the perfect fit for daily commuting " , and state that you can " get wherever you need without hassle " . lesser - know retailer often hide the disclaimer , or do not have one at all , and sell e - scooter capable of reach 40 , 50 and even 60 mph . as well as raise awareness about the current law , I be ask the Government to review where we be now , after nearly five year of trial , with a view to legislate . trial be just that : they be test . in 2022 , the last Government promise to introduce a transport Bill , but it never come , and e - scooter trial be extend early this year , before the election , for a fourth time to May 2026 . this leave we as one of the last few european country not to have legislate on this . I therefore welcome the Secretary of State commit just a fortnight ago to look ahead for opportunity to introduce this much - need and long - overdue legislation . in consider their option , I know that Ministers will hear and consider the experience and recommendation of key stakeholder , include the police , who be currently look at strict penalty and restriction on sale and import , and Sustrans , which be ask for tight regulation of e - scooter construction and specification such as speed , weight and safety requirement , as well as co - operation to solve pavement parking issue . it be on the basis of those experience , suggestion and of course the trial datum that my Bill ask that the exist legislation and guidance be review , and public awareness be raise to provide a clear , settled and long - term legislative solution to the challenge as well as the opportunity that e - scooter present , so that we can make our road safe for rider , pedestrian and other road user . I urge colleague to support it . question put and agree to . order , that Jessica Morden , Gill German , Mr Alex Barros - Curtis , Catherine Fookes , Tonia Antoniazzi , Ruth Jones and Steve Witherden present the Bill . Jessica Morden accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 140 ) . Finance Bill Second read [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on 6 November 2024 , on Budget 2024 , HC 320 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the afternoon of 5 November 2024 , on Budget 2024 , HC 320 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the morning of 5 November 2024 , on Budget 2024 , HC 320 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . four week ago today , my right hon . friend the Chancellor deliver the first Budget of this new Government . it be a historic , once - in - a - generation Budget — a Budget to deliver economic stability , to fix the public finance and to secure a step change in investment . it be a Budget to lay the essential foundation for growth , which be this Government ' s no . 1 mission . and let ' s face it , after 14 year under the Conservatives , the foundation need some fixing . that be why our Budget be build on tough new fiscal rule that will put a stop to borrow for day - to - day spending and get debt fall as a share of gdp . our Budget deliver fiscal responsibility while get the NHS and other public service back on their foot and protect work people . that be the difference a Labour Budget make . that be not to say that the decision have be easy . the very opposite be true . we have take difficult decision on spending , welfare and tax , and this Finance Bill begin to implement some of those decision . before I turn to the measure in this Bill , I will speak about what the Bill do not include . when I be a shadow Minister , shadow the tax brief , I cover a total of six Finance Bills and probably as many Ministers . through those Finance Bills , we see the conservative repeatedly extend the freeze in the personal allowance and the high rate threshold for income tax . the Finance Act 2021 froze income tax threshold from 2022 until 2026 , and then the Finance Act 2023 extend those freeze by another two year until 2028 . the Conservatives be responsible for six consecutive year of rise taxis on work people ' s payslip . our government will not follow that path . in this Finance Bill , there be no tax rise on work people ' s payslip , nor on many pensioner ’ income , like those the Conservatives put into law . we have make no change to the basic , high and additional rate of income tax . we have make no change to the rate of vat . and in next week ' s National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill , we will make no increase to work people ' s contribution . we say that we would fix the public finance while protect work people , and that be exactly what we be do . we also say that we would provide stability for business make investment decision , and that we would cap the rate of corporation tax . this Bill deliver on those commitment , too . in the last Parliament , we repeatedly see Finance Bills be use to put temporary measure in place , lead to an unstable and ever - change investment allowance regime . at the start of the last Parliament , the annual investment allowance have be temporarily raise to £ 1 million . that level be extend twice on a temporary basis before finally be make permanent . meanwhile , full expensing for expenditure on plant and machinery be also introduce on a temporary basis . and , over the last Parliament , the super - deduction come and go entirely . we be do thing differently . our corporate tax road map , which be publish at the Budget , and the Finance Bill before we today both make it clear that we be prioritise the stability that we know business need to invest . do the Minister agree with Gary Smith ? this be suppose to be a Budget for growth and job . the increase energy profit levy be drive investment out of the North sea and will not make the slight difference to how much oil and gas we consume , yet it be estimate that it will lose £ 13 billion of much - need revenue for the taxpayer . this mean we will lose environmentally , fiscally and in term of job . surely even the Minister can recognise how wrong that be . I will come to the energy profit levy in a moment , but we have engage with the oil and gas industry to ensure that we raise the money we need for the clean energy transition while support investment and job in that industry . we recognise that oil and gas will play a part in the energy mix for year to come , but we also recognise that the industry must contribute to this essential transition . this Bill maintain the 25 % cap on corporation tax that we set out in our manifesto . it also make no change to the permanent full expense regime or the annual investment allowance . before turn to other measure in the Bill , I note that the Leader of the Opposition have already commit to reverse several of they . if Conservative member disagree with the difficult but necessary choice that this Government have have to make to repair the public finance and protect work people , they have every right to oppose our plan , but they must explain what choice they would make instead . so far , their new leadership have fall at the very first hurdle of be a credible opposition by try to have it both way . [ interruption . ] they make plenty of noise , but I do not hear any alternative . the Leader of the Opposition have say that she oppose the measure in this Bill , but she also claim to support the investment that those measure fund . she say that reintroduce the vat tax break for private school fee would be the very first thing she do if she become Prime Minister , yet she also appear to support the extra £ 2 . 3 billion that our Budget put into state education . in fact , we have calculate that she have make unfunded pledge worth £ 12 million for every hour since she be appoint . by my reckoning , that is £ 1 million - worth of pledge since I begin speak five minute ago . by behave this way , the Conservatives simply remind people how very far away they be from be a credible opposition , and they be get far away by the day . the then Leader of the Opposition , and now Prime Minister , rightly say that his Administration would go for growth . he make it his no . 1 priority , and he inherit the fast - grow economy in the G7 . [ interruption . ] the Minister shake his head , but this be a fact . can he say what have happen to growth since 4 July ? every business know that we can make investment decision only on the basis of secure public finance and economic stability , which be why this Government ' s first priority have be to wipe the slate clean of the mess we inherit from the conservative party , to deliver economic stability and to provide the environment for business to make the investment on which we will grow the economy . that remain our no . 1 mission . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress . as the Chancellor set out in the Budget , we believe that before make any change to the tax rate that people pay , it be vital that we do everything we can to close the tax gap . that be why , in the Budget , the Chancellor announce a step change in our ambition to do so , with a package raise £ 6 . 5 billion of additional tax revenue by 2029 - 30 . this package will ensure that more of the tax that be owe be pay , and that taxpayer be support to pay the right tax first time . our plan involve boost the capacity of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to ensure compliance and reduce debt , alongside change to legislation , some of which this Finance Bill deliver , to remove loophole use to reduce tax liability . that be why this Bill include measure such as introduce capital gain on the liquidation of a limited liability partnership , close a route increasingly use to avoid pay tax . the Bill reform rule for overseas pension transfer , close a gap that allow individual to transfer significant pension saving overseas tax - free . and the Bill implement the cryptoasset report framework , tackle complex compliance case where a significant proportion of offshore risk sit . in our manifesto , we say that we would take on the tax gap , and that be what we be do in government . the Minister recognise the importance of reduce the tax gap , so will he commend the previous Conservative Government for halve the tax gap they inherit from Labour in 2010 ? as we all know , effort to close the tax gap thoroughly stall under the previous Government , and we have bring renew focus to this effort . it be one of our top priority . before increase any tax rate , we must ensure that people pay the tax that be owe . frankly , if the previous Government have be do such a great job , how be it that our Government have be able to find an extra £ 6 . 5 billion to close the tax gap in our first Budget alone ? that be in our manifesto , and that be what we be deliver . in our manifesto , we make other specific commitment on tax , and I will set out now how the Bill seek to implement they . first , let I turn to non - dom in the tax system . as right hon . and hon . member will know , this Government believe that everyone who be a long - term resident in the UK should pay their taxis here . that be why this Government be remove the outdated concept of domicile status from the tax system , and why we be implement a new residence - base regime from 6 April 2025 . we have long argue for such a change to be make . although the previous Government end up be force towards our position , they never implement any change . under this Government , we will finally make the reform necessary to make the system fit for the 21st century . our new regime will be internationally competitive and focus on attract the good talent and investment to the UK . our reform will scrap the plan 50 % reduction in foreign income subject to tax in the first year of the new regime ; introduce a new residence - base regime for inheritance tax ; retain and reform overseas workday relief , encourage employee to spend more of their earning in the UK ; and extend the previously announce temporary repatriation facility to three year , from April 2025 . the new rule mean that , from April 2025 , anyone who have be tax resident in the UK for more than four year will pay UK tax on their foreign income and gain , as be the case for other UK resident . that be a much simple and clear test than exist under the current regime . the Office for Budget Responsibility confirm that these reform will raise £ 12 . 7 billion in revenue over the five year forecast period . that funding be crucial for meet our commitment to fix the public finance . secondly , in government we have decide to go far than our manifesto commitment to increase the non - resident stamp duty surcharge , and we will instead increase the high rate of stamp duty on additional dwelling , from three percentage point to five percentage point above the standard residential rate . that increase to the high rate of stamp duty will raise more money than set out in the manifesto — a total of £ 310 million by 2029 - 30 — and will go far to rebalance the housing market . the OBR ' s certify costing assume that an increase in the high rate of stamp duty by two percentage point be expect to result in 130 , 000 additional transaction over the next five year by first - time buyer and other people buy a primary residence . we estimate that approximately half those who pay a non - resident stamp duty surcharge also pay the high rate of stamp duty , so the change will improve the comparative advantage of UK resident home mover , while ensure that no additional barrier be face by those come to the UK and buy their main home . thirdly , the Bill deliver our manifesto commitment to introduce the 20 % standard rate of vat on private school fee . that will apply to any charge charge on or after 29 July for term start after 1 January 2025 , and it sit alongside our change to private school business rate relief in the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill . end tax break for private school be a tough but necessary decision that will secure additional funding to help the Government deliver their commitment to improve education in state school across the country , and achieve the aspiration that every parent have for a high - quality education for their child . be it not the case that state school parent work just as hard as private school parent , although they will never be in a financial position to be able to send their kid to private school , and therefore it fall on this government to fund state school properly ? my hon . friend be right that every parent aspire to a high - quality education for their child , and that be exactly what this Government will achieve through the already announce £ 2 . 3 billion increase to the core school budget for the financial year 2025 - 26 , increase per pupil funding in real term . that include £ 1 billion of additional funding for the special educational need and disability system . the Minister be dedicate to extoll the virtue of his manifesto . when he sit down to write the Budget with his right hon . friend the Chancellor , do he recall whether the manifesto put to the country at the general election state that growth forecast under this Government would be low than they be under the previous government ? be the taxing of small family farm for a total revenue of £ 590 million in his manifesto ? he be very keen on the manifesto , but do it outline that growth would be low under this government ? I be keen on our manifesto , which deliver this Labour majority and this Labour Government . if the hon . Gentleman look at the manifesto that we go into the election with , he will see the three word that open our pledge : " deliver economic stability " . after the mess that the previous Government make of the public finance , and the damage they do to our public service and our economy , that be crucial . deliver economic stability , fix the public finance and put our public service back on a firm footing be essential to get the investment and growth that our country badly need . let I be clear about the vat policy on private school fee : charge the standard rate of 20 % do not mean that school must increase their fee by 20 % , because school can reclaim vat pay on input and reduce the cost to minimise the extent to which they need to increase fee . many school have already publicly commit to cap increase at 5 % , or to absorb the full vat cost themselves . parent from two private school in my area have write to I that they will have to move their child into the state system , but the problem be that there be not place in the state system to accomplish that . will there be a dedicated fund to help those school when pupil move ? will fund be put aside for the welfare of the kid who be be take out of school mid - term ? figure that have be release suggest that there could be about 3 , 000 such pupil . such a move will have a significant impact on their mental health and their family ' s welfare , and I know this Government be commit to ensure that child have good welfare . will the Minister consider a ringfenced fund to help support the mental health of those kid ? as the hon . Gentleman know , mental health , more broadly , be a priority for this Government . on the policy around vat on private school fee , the impact on pupil in private school have to change to a state school be expect to be very limited . the Government estimate that 35 , 000 pupil — less than 0 . 5 % of all state school pupil — will leave , or never enter , the private sector as a result of this policy . those movement will take place over a number of year , and only 3 , 000 pupil be estimate to move within the current academic year . to put that number in context for the hon . Gentleman , every year many pupil move between school , include between private school and the state sector . a Department for Education report publish in 2022 look at move between state school and out of state school , find that almost 60 , 000 move take place every year . as he will know , pupil number in school fluctuate regularly for a number of reason , and the school funding system in England be already set up to manage that . do my hon . friend not think it ironic that Conservative Members be talk about the mental health of student ? they do not consider that when they make change to the state system . as a former teacher , I know the massive impact on young people ' s mental health of the conservative party ' s decision to move from lettered grade to number grade at short notice , to completely change the syllabus and not to provide the resource or textbook that teacher need to teach those course . my hon . friend be right to point out that the lack of funding that the previous Government put into the state sector have implication . it take a toll on child if school be not properly fund . if the capital budget for school be not properly fund , as well as their revenue budget , that have an impact on child ' s life . that be why the funding that we be put into school be something for which I will make no apology . the fact that we be have to take difficult decision to fund it be the nature of government . I note that Conservative Members be happy to support our investment in state school , but they refuse to support the difficult decision necessary to generate that funding . frankly , that underscore how far away they be from even be a credible opposition . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I have already give way to the right hon . Gentleman , so I will make some progress . within the policy , provision for pupil with special educational need be an important matter that a several right hon . and hon . member have raise with I . the Government recognise the importance of that too , and I be glad to confirm that where pupil have special educational need that can only be meet in private school , as determine by an education , health and care plan in England or its equivalent in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , local authority and devolve government that fund those place will be compensate for the vat they be charge on those pupil ' fee . fourthly , this Government be deliver on the manifesto commitment to increase the energy profit levy by three percentage point , from 35 % to 38 % , and to extend the period over which the levy apply by one year . the Government be also end unjustifiably generous allowance by remove the levy ' s core investment allowance , which be unique to oil and gas taxation and not available to any other sector of the economy . we be , however , provide stability within other feature of the system , by maintain the level of tax relief available for decarbonisation investment , by set the rate of the allowance at 66 % and by maintain the availability of 100 % first - year allowance . the Minister be defend the change that he be make to the fiscal regime as it relate to the North sea and the production of oil and gas . can he identify another oil and gas - produce nation that tax its industry high than the United Kingdom do ? we know that other country tax in different way . Norway have a high headline rate , although it have a different set of structure of allowance and so on . it be important for we that we calibrate the headline rate and the allowance in the right way . that be why we have take the measured decision to increase the rate as I describe , to remove the investment allowance but at the same time to retain the 100 % first - year allowance and the level of relief available for decarbonisation investment . do the Minister think that that be the right balance , give that Offshore Energies UK suggest that the change will cost £ 12 billion in tax revenue ? I be absolutely confident , through all my engagement with OEUK and many firm that work in the oil and gas sector , that our approach strike the right balance , as need in our economy . it recognise that oil and gas producer will have a role in the energy mix for year to come , while also be clear that it be crucial we raise money for the energy transition . the energy profit levy seek to achieve that by provide the money for that transition while also support job and investment in the sector , as exist at the moment . fifthly , the Bill deliver on our manifesto commitment around carry interest by increase to 32 % the capital gain tax rate that apply as an interim measure from 6 April next year , ahead of reform carry interest more fully in a future Finance Bill . the reform , which will have effect from April 2026 , will ensure that the reward be tax in line with economic characteristic . they put the tax treatment of carry interest on a fair and more stable footing for the long term , while preserve the UK ' s competitive position as a global asset management hub . as the Chancellor set out both in July and again at the Budget , the fiscal situation we inherit be far bad than we have expect . we know that the previous Government leave we with a £ 22 billion black hole and so we have have to take tough decision to fix the public finance and get public service back on their foot . some of those decision be outside the scope of this Finance Bill and will be debate during the passage of other Bills . however , this Bill include a number of those decision , which we have seek to take in as fair a way as possible . the Bill make change to the main rate of capital gain tax by increase they to 18 % and 24 % from 30 October 2024 . that decision will raise revenue while ensure that the UK tax system remain internationally competitive . we be support business through that transition by maintain business asset disposal relief , with its million - pound lifetime limit , and by phase in the increase to that relief ' s CGT rate , in line with the change to investor ' relief , to 14 % in April 2025 and then to 18 % in April 2026 . the Bill maintain inheritance tax threshold at their current level for a further two year to 5 April 2030 . it also legislate for air passenger duty rate for 2025 - 26 and for those announce in the Budget for 2026 - 27 . from 2026 - 27 , all rate of air passenger duty will be adjust to partially account for previous high inflation , and that change will help maintain the value of air passenger duty rate in real term . when it come to fly , Ryanair have come out and say it will cut 5 million ticket because of the change . how do that help growth ? let I put these decision into context for the hon . Gentleman . the increase equate to £ 1 more for people take domestic flight in economy class and £ 2 more for those fly to short - haul destination in economy class . none of the decision be easy , but we have to take they to fix the public finance and to get our economy back on a stable footing . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress . that be the impact the change have on domestic flight and short - haul destination in economy class . however , in addition to the broad change in air passenger duty rate , the high rate for large private jet will also increase by a further 50 % to ensure they contribute fairly to the public finance . the Bill also renew the tobacco duty escalator and enable his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to prepare for the introduction of a new duty on vape product . the Bill increase the soft drink industry levy over the next five year to reflect the 27 % increase in consumer price index inflation between 2018 and 2024 , as well as increase the rate in line with CPI each year from 1 April 2025 . finally , while the Bill increase alcohol duty for non - draught product , in line with retail price index inflation , duty on qualify draught product will be cut by 1 . 7 % in cash term to support pub , and we will increase the duty discount on product that qualify for small producer relief from 1 February 2025 . the Chancellor have be clear that the Budget be a once - in - a - generation event , at which the Government take difficult but necessary decision . by take those tough decision , the Budget deliver economic stability , sound public finance and strong public service . on those foundation , we will work day in , day out across the rest of this Parliament to boost investment and growth . many of the measure to boost investment be be deliver outside of the Finance Bill , from the planning reform that we get under way within day of take office to the creation of mega - fund for pension investment , which the Chancellor announce at Mansion House . the Bill introduce additional relief for our creative industry , for visual effect within film and high - end tv , which will play a key role in strengthen the UK as a global hub for film and tv . likewise , the Bill introduce measure to support the transition to electric vehicle , through high vehicle excise duty first - year rate for hybrid and internal combustion engine vehicle , which boost the incentive for ev , and by an extension of first - year allowance for electric car and charge point until 2025 - 26 . above and beyond any individual measure , the impact of the Bill and the Budget that it follow be to lay the foundation for great investment and growth , through fiscal responsibility , strong public service and economic stability . we have lay the foundation for create wealth , job and opportunity in every part of this country , enable people to meet their aspiration for themselves and their family , and make people across Britain well off . one of the measure that have a bearing on the provision of public service be the increase to the employer national insurance contribution . I understand the Treasury be in discussion with the devolved government and local Government across England to ascertain precisely how much extra funding support be require to offset the increase cost upon their service . will the Minister give we an update on those discussion and when he believe local authority and , indeed , the devolve government will know how much money in additional support they will receive ? I be afraid I will not give the hon . Gentleman inside information on any ongoing discussion between the Treasury and devolve government . the policy for reimburse increase in employer national insurance contribution be well establish . the last Government follow a similar process in relation to the health and social care levy , whereby Departments , employee and other direct public sector employee be typically refund the entire increase and third party , contractor and so on be not . as for the devolved government ' settlement , they have their own process to go through with the Treasury . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will understand why I can not give a running commentary on that , but I be sure that his colleague will pick that up . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress . I have be generous in give way to the right hon . Gentleman in particular . [ interruption . ] all right , go on , then . I be grateful to the Minister , who have show his customary good humour and good will to the Chamber . he be unable to discuss the precise number for the devolved government , but can he confirm what the overall cost be to the Exchequer of compensate the public sector for the impact of nic ? I believe it be around £ 5 . 9 billion , but I want to check with the Minister that that be correct . I regret give way to the right hon . Gentleman . I invite he to return to the Chamber next Tuesday for the second reading of the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill , when I will also be speak . we can have a full debate on national insurance then , which I be sure he and his colleague be look forward to . I hope they will support it in the Lobby because , no doubt , they support the extra investment in the NHS which that decision fund . I thank he in advance for signal his good grace and support for our measure . after we be elect , we say that we would take the difficult decision necessary to fix the public finance . we say that we would close the tax gap , implement our manifesto pledge and protect work people . we say that we would deliver economic stability , fiscal responsibility and the certainty that business need to invest and grow . this Bill play a central role in achieve those goal and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Chancellor . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give the Finance Bill a second reading because it derive from the 2024 Autumn Budget which will lead to job be lose , curtail investment and price be raise ; because the Finance Bill constitute an assault on business by increase taxis on investment ; because it will reduce the competitiveness of the United Kingdom ' s tax regime ; because it levy the first ever tax on educational choice and will increase pressure on state school ; because it will drive up rent by increase tax on homeownership ; because it will substantially increase the size of the state without a sustainable plan to fund it ; and because it will reduce living standard , increase borrowing and debt , drive up inflation and interest rate , with the result that the OBR growth forecast for the Autumn Budget be low than that accompany the Spring Budget of the last government . " this Finance Bill , this Budget , be a disgrace . they be a disgrace because they be build on a deceit — a deceit that be propagate by the Labour party during the last general election . it tell the british people that they need not worry about taxis be raise left , right and centre , yet what have we discover ? the figure of the Office for Budget Responsibility clearly show that this country be now head to its high tax burden in the history of our nation . during the general election , we be also tell by the Labour party that it have no intention of increase national insurance . in fact , it state exactly that in the manifesto on which the now Government stand . it break that commitment . do not take my word for it ; Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies say exactly that . be it not the case that the manifesto say that there would be no rise in national insurance , but when Ministers go to defend this policy , they say , " not on work people " , but then could not define work people ? now the language have slip to " payslip " . be the shadow Minister aware of this translation ? I be pretty sure that the " payslip " be not mention in the manifesto . my hon . friend make an important and valid point . as he say , Labour be now claim that there will be no incidence of this tax increase on work people , although it seem to have a problem define exactly what a work person be . none the less , try tell that to those people who will see their wage depress as a consequence of this measure . try tell that to the 50 , 000 full - time equivalent who the OBR say will lose their job as a consequence of this measure . try tell that to the young people up and down our country who , because it be not just an increase in the rate but also an approximate halving of the threshold , will be disproportionately affect . Labour also reassure farmer . the then shadow Secretary of State for the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs — the now Secretary of State — reassure farmer . he go to the National Farmers Union and say that nothing would be do on inheritance tax and the annual percentage rate . and on that basis , the NFU tell its member that , at least on that measure , there be nothing to fear from a future Labour Government . how wrong it be . only last week , we see , ten of thousand of farmer , in their dignified way , come up to the very gate of our democracy to ask a simple question of the Labour Government : " why do you lie to we ? " that be the nub of it . the measure will see the break - up of our farm and it will do nothing for food security . do the shadow Minister agree that the Government could not conceivably have be so ignorant about british agriculture that they do not know that inherit the family farm be no form of enrichment whatsoever ? so introduce this change to APR be just pure bad government . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . it demonstrate that this government do not understand farming and do not understand the countryside . there be 100 Labour Members who represent rural constituency . I will not guess how many there will be after the next general election , but some number few than 100 , I suspect . perhaps the cruell deception of all be of our pensioner , who be reassure that there would not be any means - testing of the winter fuel payment , yet what happen ? 10 million pensioner be to face a cut . before somebody on the Government Benches stand up and tell we that some of those pensioner can afford it , I say that many of they simply can not . of those under the poverty line , two third will actually lose these benefit . while the Prime Minister be out of the country on the 19th , something else be sneak out : a letter from the Department for Work and Pensions , explain that , at the point of reach its decision on this , it know from its own internal analysis that it would impoverish 100 , 000 pensioner into relative poverty and 50 , 000 pensioner into absolute poverty . this information be ask for time and again in readiness for a debate in this House . be it not right that information relevant to these measure should have be available in time for a debate ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be disgraceful that Labour wait until the farmer be at the gate of Westminster to sneak out that impact assessment , which show that , by 2027 , 100 , 000 more pensioner would be in relative poverty , after housing cost , than be the case today . indeed , the analysis by the Labour party back in 2017 , when it be against this proposal , be that up to 4 , 000 pensioner would prematurely die in the cold as a consequence of this measure . now , Madam Deputy Speaker , when you deal in deceit , you need a pretext for so do . and a further deceit have be bring forward , and it be raise again at the Dispatch Box this afternoon , which be the £ 22 billion black hole . where be it ? I wish to reflect on the tone of the shadow Minister ' s remark . look at chart 4 . 5 in the OBR ' s document , I can see a big rise in the tax to GDP ratio , but from the right hon . Gentleman ' s indignant tone , one would think that there have never be a tax rise under the previous Government . what the chart show be a significantly large rise in the tax to GDP ratio , because of the decision take by the previous Government , so be it not the case that the right hon . Gentleman ' s tone do not reflect the fact of the decision he take ? order . before the shadow Minister respond , may I caution he against use the word " deceit " in the Chamber ? no doubt he will now want to respond to the intervention . Madam Deputy Speaker , I will of course be guide by you on that matter . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point , there be no doubt that , as we go into the last general election , the analysis of the manifesto of the three major party show that Labour ' s manifesto would have by far the great increase on the tax burden . what Labour have do be to break its manifesto and go still far to take we , as the OBR have say , to what will be the high tax burden in the history of our country . it be as simple as that . I thank the right hon . member for give way . I do want to indulge he , but as he have now mention the OBR three time during the course of his speech , I wonder whether he would share with the House what conversation he have with former Prime Minister Liz Truss about respect the OBR before she crash the economy and send inflation to 11 % ? as Chair of the Treasury Committee at the time , I have quite a lot to say about it , and I would point the hon . gentleman to the public record in that regard . let I return to labour ' s claim of a vast £ 22 billion black hole , which one sense can even be see from the moon . when the OBR look at this matter , it conclude that the fiscal pressure be less than half that figure . it also make the point that , have it be know at that time , there would have be discussion between Treasury official and the OBR , and that number might well have be small still . and it be equally the case that government manage down in - year fiscal pressure as a matter of course . to use another astronomer ' s analogy , this be not so much a black hole as a red dwarf . [ interruption . ] or a red herring — even well . this be about not just mislead the british people , but economic incompetence . the Government have set great store by growth . they say that they will generate the fast consistently , sustainably grow economy in the G7 — I see Labour Members nod their head . how be that go ? our friend at the OBR clearly forecast a low level of growth follow the Budget than they have forecast base on our Budget the precede spring . that be a direct consequence of the kind of growth - destroy policy in which the Government be engage . what happen when the Office for National Statistics come out with its figure recently for the third quarter of this year ? [ interruption . ] order . the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) have twice use the word " you " when heckle . I will not let he off in the future . I take it as a familiar mark of respect from the hon . Gentleman . the fact of the matter be that the ONS ' s figure for the third quarter of this year show growth of 0 . 1 % . that be one seventh of what have be achieve in the United States . in September , the third month of the quarter , there be negative growth . the reason for that be very clear . when this Government come to office , the first thing that they do be talk down the economy , and talk about black hole and what a terrible mess everything be in , as cover for what they intend to do all along . that have an impact on purchase manager ' index survey . we can see the slump in business confidence in the datum , and the Government be now reap the whirlwind . we have now have a Budget that will do even more damage to growth . what will happen to inflation ? let we go back to our friend at the OBR . in every single year of its forecast , inflation be high than in every single year of the forecast base on our last Budget back in the spring — a fiscal splurge up front that will translate into high price and high interest rate for long , mean high mortgage rate . before Labour Members start jump up and down at the M - word , the Government now own mortgage interest rate , and they be be affect in the wrong direction as a result of their policy . what about living standard ? they be down and flatline . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation say that by October 2029 the average family will be £ 770 bad off in real term than they be today . on the Government ' s watch . on the Government ' s watch . a number of measure in the Bill will far weigh on growth . capital gain tax will go up , destroy wealth creation . the energy profit levy will destroy job , make we less secure when it come to energy . stamp duty will go up , and that be one of the bad taxis . the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) will accept that , as he share that view — I think he make the point in his recent book . the level of activity in the housing market will be dampen , people will be discourage from downsize , which will put pressure on the housing supply , and labour mobility — an important component of growth — will be impact . my right hon . friend be paint an accurate but bleak picture , as reflect by the IFS , the OBR and all the independent analyst of what the impact of the Budget will be . however , I put it to he that he be understate the weakness that the Budget will create for this country . look back at the last 14 year . we be recover from the financial crash . we have the pandemic , Brexit and the energy crisis . we be unlikely to make it to the end of this decade without some form of further shock . be it not central to the weakness of the Budget that it make this country so much more vulnerable to what we do not yet know be come ? my right hon . friend make a perceptive point , to which I will come momentarily , but first let I deal with vat on private school . we have already hear about the displacement effect — the behavioural effect — and the thousand of pupil who will have their education disrupt and the impact on their family , but do not this measure tell we all we need to know about socialism ? those who stretch to try to make end meet to send their child to those school be to be deny . their aspiration be to be sacrifice on the altar of envy . be it not as simple as that ? my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) be right : the Budget will not create strong foundation for the future ; it will create a vulnerable and brittle economy . the Chancellor have very little headroom against her fiscal target . against the stability target , because the Government have talk down the economy and gilt rate have respond in turn , it be conceivable that almost all that headroom have already disappear . I will prophesy that , without doubt , perhaps if the forecast turn in the wrong direction , or the pressure on departmental spending over the next two year become difficult for a profligate Labour Government , or because of some external factor , as my right hon . Friend suggest — maybe tariff from Donald Trump ' s America , or if his deficit - fund tax cut lead to high bond yield and high interest rate here — I almost guarantee the House that , however it occur , this Government will come back for more in due course . may I prophesy too ? I will let my right hon . and gallant Friend prophesy . to be fair to the Prime Minister , he make it absolutely clear that thing would have to get bad . the difficulty be — this be my prophecy , if you like — that there be no prospect of they get well thereafter . that be an extremely astute observation . the prophecy be that thing will get tough far down the line . it will then be the case that this Government take decision that leave we in a weak and vulnerable position to withstand they . why have this happen ? the Labour party have very little business experience . very few member on the Government Front Bench have start up a business or grow a company in any significant manner . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way to the hon . Gentleman . perhaps he be an example of somebody who have do just that . if the right hon . Gentleman and his colleague be against all the revenue - raise measure in the Budget , perhaps he could explain which of the many investment in the health service , road , the justice system and school he and his colleague would cut ? it be not a binary decision like that . the hon . Gentleman be clever enough — [ interruption . ] I be sorry , but I will not disrespect he by claim that he truly believe that . have the Government bring forward a budget that would have grow the economy , as the Conservatives would have do , the Government would have more money . have Labour grasp the nettle of welfare reform , as we do when we be in office , and we have very clear plan in our manifesto for a saving of £ 12 billion a year , the Government would not have to go around cane company , beat up on pensioner and so on as an alternative . there be well way of do thing , and we have a much well way . early this week , the Chancellor of the Exchequer say in her conversation with the Confederation of British Industry , which do not go terribly well , that her tax - raise day be over . yet significantly , the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury fail to reiterate that assertion . do he believe she ? my right hon . friend raise an interesting point because the Chancellor do say at the CBI conference , when ask , that she would not raise taxis in the future , but this very afternoon , at the Dispatch Box , the Prime Minister appear to resile from that . we now do not even have clarity on that vital point . surely the point be that the Chancellor be no economist , no matter how much puff one apply to try to disguise the fact . I think I would take a leaf out of her book , even though that page be apparently write by somebody else . I can inform the House that I be an economist . speak as a former Governor of the Bank of England and president of the International Monetary Fund , and have run the World Bank and the World Trade Organisation at the same time — yes , for 10 year — I have as much experience as our Chancellor . that flight of fancy be , of course , all mine , but the inspiration come from the Government Benches . this be a Finance Bill of broken promise and breathtake incompetence — a Finance Bill that represent a present danger to the future of our economy . be there ever a Bill more injurious to what we conservative love — to our pensioner , our farmer , our business , the poor , the vulnerable and , yes , work man and woman right up and down our country ? they say that astrologer be there to make economist look good . well , they can not make this lot look good . it be write in the star — it be a story foretold — that unchecked , this Budget and this Finance Bill would take Britain down . that be why we will never tire of the trial of opposition , and why we will be the party that stand up for work man and woman across our country , and fight this Government . to make her maiden speech , I call Samantha Niblett . that catch I off guard ; I do not expect to be call quite so soon . thank you so much , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be with great humility and immense pride that I stand here today deliver my first speech in this Chamber as the Member of Parliament for South Derbyshire . I would like to begin by express my gratitude to the people of South Derbyshire for place their trust in I . I be visible , accessible and active right across the constituency before the election be call , and I take great pride in prove that by direct people to my " Samantha spot " interactive online map . I be committed to continue in the same vein , work incredibly hard for the people I represent . I want to thank my predecessor Heather Wheeler , who have dedicate so much of her life to local and national politic . she spend 14 year as an MP and , if an internet search result be not trick I , begin her career in local politic in 1982 when she be just 23 year old . she become an elect councillor in South Derbyshire in 1995 , and go on to be leader of the council . her commitment to public service be reward in the 2023 birthday honour list . I also hear on repeat , and on good authority , that she be jolly good fun in this place . as the most recent MP for South Derbyshire , I join this House from the private sector , have build a career in datum and technology , and I be still a relative newbie to politic . I join the Labour party in my late thirty , swiftly find my home and sense of purpose in try to make thing well for people through political activism , at a time when datum and technology be key to drive economic growth to help make people well off . when I discover that the two thing that I be most proud of this country for be Labour Government creation — the welfare state and our precious national health service , which both look after people when they be at their most vulnerable and in most need of support — I know that I have find the party that I belong to . the NHS have save both my parent ' live more than once , and I be delighted that now that Labour be in government , we will save the NHS ' s life . decide to throw your hat in the ring for the long ongoing job interview , for a job without a job description , when some people will instantly loathe you for simply be an MP — they be particularly harsh online — be not for everyone . be it not for my wonderful 17 - year - old daughter Lillian , I probably would not be stand here . she be the reason for my being . I could not tell she that she can be anything she want to be if I do not show she . I want she to feel brave and able to change her career later in life , just as I have , if she so wish . I will not stand by and let she be horrify , as she be , at the gender pay gap without try my good to help close it . thank goodness we have the first ever female Chancellor of the Exchequer in my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) , who , have smash a glass ceiling herself , want to level the play field for other woman . the desire for fairness and to look after people be what drive I , and it be one of the define feature of South Derbyshire , too . it have a strong sense of community and people who look out for one another . the many local Facebook group , include " I love Swad " , " this be Overseal " and " spot : Repton " , have some interesting post and colourful comment , and people there frequently , shall we say , hold I to account ; but more often than not , when people ask for help , other rally round to support they . that community extend to local business , who support and work with local charity , such as South derbyshire CVS . it not only run a food bank — something I hope to see an end of as we make people well off again — but provide service and support to individual and voluntary group , of which there be very many . then we have the Maple Tree community caf é in Repton village hall , whose volunteer make people so welcome . it have the good coffee , not to mention the beloved doughnut on the first Saturday of every month . there be also the small business group be Networking , which meet at Been Coffee , which do the most amazing bagel . there be a bit of a food theme here . People be there for one another . South Derbyshire have something for everyone . I encourage everyone to go online to visitsouthderbyshire . co . uk to see for themselves , and then to come and see we . we have event range from the Melbourne festival of art and architecture , which celebrate its 20th anniversary next September , to the festival of leisure at Maurice Lea memorial park in Church Gresley , a short walk from the home of Gresley Rovers . the last time a Labour MP , Mark Todd , who people still speak so fondly of today , deliver his first speech in this Chamber in 1997 , he be hope to help Gresley Rovers move their football ground . this Labour MP hope to help they finally make that dream a reality . turn from the beautiful game to the beautiful place , we have Calke Abbey in Ticknall , part of our wonderful National Trust . there , people do great work to preserve and restore woodland and ensure visitor area be inclusive , so that as many people as possible can enjoy they . Mercia Marina , just outside Willington , be the large inland port in Europe and be a fantastic spot for tourism , leisure and local business . speak of local business , Acres Engineering be a wonderful family - run company that open its door to school visit . it train and develop apprentice , and have an armed force covenant gold award for its work to support the armed force community and defence . as I be partake in this year ' s armed force parliamentary scheme in the RAF , I be ever more grateful to Acres Engineering for be commit to that work . it really do go above and beyond for people . it be not just home - grow business in South Derbyshire ; we be home to site for Toyota , Rolls - Royce and JCB . those global company provide high - quality job , apprenticeship and vital skill training to local people , make South derbyshire a hub of innovation and industrial excellence . their expertise in hydrogen - power vehicle can help deliver a reduction in carbon emission , and will ideally place we at the forefront of the green revolution , help we to fight the climate crisis . I also want to highlight the critical role of Burton and South Derbyshire college . while its main site be not technically in my constituency , it have site and programme that be . it provide vital education and training to the next generation of worker and entrepreneur . it be the gold standard of technical college , and this Labour Government want to see more like it right across the country . our college be help to equip our young people , include those with special educational need and disability , with the skill need to thrive in the job of the future , in today ' s fast - change world . I hope many of those job will be in the tech sector , and I will strive to encourage tech business to base themselves in South Derbyshire , so that no one have to leave where they live to build a secure , successful , rewarding and well - pay career . our motto , " the Earth our Wealth " , speak of a time when our industry be about coalmining and pottery . now , it make I think of our stunning rural landscape , and of the hard - work farmer who be increasingly diversify to adapt to change economic landscape . whether they be produce their own biogas from food waste , convert agricultural building into business unit to let or run farm shop , our farmer continue to show resilience and creativity . in closing , whether in Etwall , Egginton or Stenson Fields in the north , or in Lullington , Coton in the Elms or Walton in the south , I want people to know that I promise to represent they with integrity , dedication , and a deep sense of responsibility . thank you for give I that opportunity . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) , and I congratulate she on her very heartfelt maiden speech . I commend she for her commitment to the NHS , and for her desire to be a role model for the next generation of woman , who will follow up the ladder behind we . her skill in datum and tech will be incredibly helpful in this House as we grapple with the challenge of online harm , and the threat and opportunity of AI , and I wish she well in her career in this House . there be no doubt but that the Government have receive a terrible inheritance . under the former Conservative Government , our economy flatline , people ' s living standard plummet and our public service be leave on their knee , so inevitably the incoming Government have have to make some difficult decision . [ interruption . ] conservative member might like side b . [ interruption . ] steady on . some of those decision we Liberal Democrats agree with . to start with , the Government have decide to borrow for productive investment , and in principle we agree with that . they have raise the levy on the oil and gas giant and close the loophole , and we agree with that . they have decide to invest in the NHS , and we also agree with that . however , we can not support the Bill , for many of the reason set out in our reason amendment . the first question be who should pay for fix our NHS and social care . we Liberal Democrats have always say that it should be those with the broad shoulder . unfortunately , the Government ' s Finance Bill do not reverse the tax cut give to the big bank by the Conservatives ; it do not raise the digital service tax on the big tech company ; and it do not increase the remote gaming duty . those three measure , outline in our reason amendment , would have raise billion of pound to help fix our NHS and social care , and that money could also have be use to reverse the cut to the winter fuel payment . the inheritance tax measure be not include in the Finance Bill , but it do pave the way for they . I must say that it be a bit rich of the Conservatives to pretend suddenly to be the friend of the farmer when they usher in the very trade deal that have undermine so many farmer . however , I urge the Government in the strong term to think again about the family farm tax . that measure be badly think through and lead to the bad of both world . it do not close the loophole that result in big equity company and investor buy up land — it be still more tax - efficient for they to do that than to place their money elsewhere — yet family farm be be catch up as collateral damage . there be rumour that the Government may be think again , and I urge they to do so . it be possible for they to look at introduce a genuine family farm test , as exist in France and Ireland . if the Government look at this issue , the liberal Democrats will , in the spirit of constructive opposition , work with they to get this right and to protect family farmer . our reason amendment also outline our opposition to the increase in alcohol duty , because it will hit not only consumer , but small business — and not just any business . the business in this sector be bastion of new craftsmanship and innovation in our small - batch distillery . in summary , we know that the Government have an awful inheritance and have to make difficult decision , but we Liberal Democrats would have make different choice . have the hon . member reflect on the fact that the Liberal Democrats , instead of be just the party of no , be the party who enable the coalition Government , which she be criticise ? I think we can all say that a lot of water have pass under the bridge since those time . since 2015 , we have see what the Conservatives do when they be leave in government on their own . I hope that people will have see at the most recent general election that we Liberal Democrats put health and social care front and centre ; that lead we to become the large third party in the last 100 year . to conclude , we Liberal Democrats would have make different decision from the Government , and for that reason , we will not support the Bill . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on the first Labour Finance Bill in 14 year , and an even great pleasure to respond to the very first Budget deliver by a female Chancellor . it be also an honour to speak on Lancashire Day , and I would like to put on record my congratulation to all my constituent in Bolton West and far afield who be celebrate this important day . as other have do , I congratulate the Chancellor and thank she for blaze a trail for girl in my constituency to follow . in response to the remark from the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , I would say that have spend 14 year work in FTSE 100 company , I believe that the measure in the Bill will be a turning point for our country . they be the first step in fix the foundation of a broken economy after 14 long year of economic vandalism by the conservative party . let I be clear : the Labour Government inherit a difficult financial situation , with debt above 90 % of GDP , million of pound of public money waste during the pandemic , include via contract award through the vip fast line , inflation at 11 % , and a cost of living crisis that bear down not just on the most vulnerable in my constituency , but on work family , young people and many business . that be the economic inheritance bequeath by Conservative Members , and we should take no lesson from they on how to manage the public finance . to that end , I very much welcome the measure in the Bill . to take the hon . Gentleman back just a few month , he may remember that inflation be at 2 % and down at target , and the level of employment be up by 4 million people on where it be in 2010 . it would be fair for the hon . Gentleman , who be new to the House , to want to give a balanced picture , and he may want to reflect on those 4 million additional job , the fact that inflation be down , and the fact that the UK be the fast grow economy in the first quarter in the entire G7 . I thank the right hon . member for his contribution , but I will return to the point I mention early about inflation at 11 % . frankly , the work be not do by the previous Government to mitigate that . I very much welcome measure in the Bill that will increase stamp duty on those who own a second home . the blight of second home ownership in certain part of our country have destroy the housing market for local people , massively inflate price and deny those otherwise invest in the local area the ability to put down root . I be pleased to see the Chancellor deliver on our election promise to scrap the non - dom loophole , which have be abuse for far too long by those who wish to enjoy all the privilege of life in this country without pay into the system . I applaud the Chancellor ' s commitment to deliver fairness into the tax system through the Budget and the Bill . in the light of the debate we have be have in the country at large over the past few week , I wish briefly to focus my comment on three key topic , which I hope the Government will soon revisit at some juncture during this Parliament . the first topic , tax justice , have be overlook for far too long . accord to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , the tax gap — the difference between what it should collect annually and what it actually collect — be almost £ 40 billion . let I repeat that figure — forty thousand million pound . close that gap by just 20 % could pay for 60 , 000 nurse , 40 , 000 teacher , and 40 , 000 police officer . imagine the transformative impact that could have on our public service , on education , on health , and on tackle crime . simply put , work people in Bolton West be expect to pay the taxis they owe , so why should big multinational and the super - rich be able to avoid contribute their fair share ? the renew focus on tax avoidance and evasion in the Budget be much need , but we sometimes have to spend money to make money . we all know that tough decision about public finance have to be make , but that do not have to come at the expense of boost enforcement through our public body , include HMRC , which should be self - funding , with a great proportion of cash raise from fine , asset seizure and the like return to the relevant agency . our enforcement agency work incredibly hard to claw back billion of pound that be lose every year to economic crime in the UK , but they do not have the resource to protect we from all manner of crime from fraud to money laundering and tax evasion . it should be criminal who be make to pay , not the hard - work taxpayer , and for I , that would be a sensible way to both combat economic crime and bolster our public finance . we already know that every pound invest in the Serious Fraud Office return three pound to the Treasury — a 317 % return on its budget — while every pound spend on the National Crime Agency ' s international corruption unit result in £ 21 of illicit wealth freeze . as it happen , research publish this month by Spotlight on Corruption — I hope the Minister will take note of this — find that just 17 . 6 % of the £ 4 billion generate for the Government by law enforcement agency and anti - money launder supervisor between 2017 and 2024 be reinveste in those agency or in crime reduction and community project . if just 50 % of those enforcement receipt have be reinveste , economic crime regulation and enforcement would have receive an extra £ 233 million a year — nearly double the annual investment underpin the 2023 to 2026 economic crime plan — at no cost to the taxpayer but with potentially substantial reward . the second area of focus that I would like the Government to attend to during this Parliament be council tax . for almost three decade , successive government have sit on their hand when it come to reform the levy , which be regressive and disproportionately target the wealth of low - income family and the young , as well as affect local authority . Bolton council find that it do not provide an adequate funding base to provide critical service for my constituent . last year , a modest property in Hartlepool worth £ 150 , 000 would have be tax at over 1 % of its value , while the owner of an £ 8 million mansion in Westminster would have see a bill equivalent to just 0 . 02 % . the Fairer Share campaign have call for a proportional property tax , which would see homeowner pay a flat rate base on current and annually update valuation , not the absurdly outdated 1991 number . it calculate that that would put an average of £ 600 into the pocket of household in Bolton West and leave 96 % of people in my constituency well off . indeed , in total , Fairer Share reckon that that reform could save household outside central London and the south - east £ 6 . 5 billion a year , help to level up community and genuinely boost local economy . finally , I would very much like to see the spending commitment to 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence reach as soon as fiscally possible . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to that effect . the increase of £ 2 . 9 billion for defence already announce by the Government be indeed welcome . we must continue to invest in defence to ensure that the UK will have the capacity to keep we safe in what be become an increasingly dangerous world . this Finance Bill demonstrate that after 14 year of dither and delay , the Labour Government be take the difficult decision head on . with the measure announce last month by the Chancellor , I be confident that my constituent across Bolton West will be able to realise their full potential and that together we can build the healthy , more prosperous society that I want to see , with tax justice at its heart and those with the broad shoulder pay their fair share to fix the crisis in our school , our hospital and our prison . I commend the hon . member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) for her maiden speech . she and I share many interest , not least in technology , promote woman in technology and accessibility . I wish she well . turn to the matter in hand , the measure in the Bill be in addition to other announce as part of a Budget that have cause serious concern for business in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton . re - energise our high street have be one of my key priority , but the Budget push we far from that goal . the Government plan to increase employer ' national insurance contribution from 13 . 8 % to 15 % and to lower the threshold from £ 9 , 100 to £ 5 , 000 . that will force business to pay more soon . meanwhile , business rate relief for retail and hospitality will drop from 75 % to 40 % . research show that that will cause a 140 % increase in rate , with the average UK restaurant see cost rise from £ 5 , 051 to £ 12 , 122l , a £ 7 , 000 hike that could force closure . those change come on top of exist pressure cause by covid , the war in Ukraine and energy price inflation . a local business have share the impact of that on its profit and loss : its freight cost be up 126 % since 2019 , raw material be rise by 6 % , warehouse rent be up 24 % last year , with another 6 % rise in 2024 , and utility cost be up 58 % in 2023 . business already stretch thin can not absorb the additional cost that the Budget impose . pile on national insurance contribution and high business rate alongside steep minimum wage hike , without support productivity and growth , be a recipe for disaster . in paint this stark picture , my hon . friend have not mention the Employment Rights Bill , which be expect to impose particular burden on hospitality business , include those on her high street — a total of £ 5 billion in addition to the measure in this Budget . my right hon . friend make a valid and important point . I have restrict my comment to the Finance Bill and the Budget , but the Employment Rights Bill place significant additional pressure on business , and I thank he for that point . for town such as Bognor Regis and Littlehampton where business already operate on razor - thin margin , these measure could be existential . highly regarded local employer , include family - run small and medium - sized enterprise such as Temple Spa and Meridian Medical , be gravely concerned . entrepreneur like those take immense personal and financial risk to create job and support our economy , yet this Government treat they as an endless revenue source instead of engine for growth . the Chancellor ' s projection may work on paper , but they be disconnect from reality . our high street , sme and family business need support , not policy that make survival — let alone growth — hard . I urge the Government to rethink their approach or take step to mitigate the impact on our community . I be grateful for the opportunity to contribute to this very important debate as we move to put the measure announce at the Budget on the statute book but , first , I add my congratulation to my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) on a superb maiden speech , demonstrate the commitment and expertise that we be lucky to have on the Government Benches , and the House be lucky to have as a whole . I suspect that this be not the Budget that my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) envisage as she first as Chancellor , but it be the one that be need once the economic inheritance receive by this Government become fully understand . I want to touch on the very difficult financial situation that this Government have inherit , and what difference the measure announce in the Budget will make to resident live in my constituency . we should be clear about what the inheritance from the conservative party be : an economy that , over the past 14 year , have see productivity and wage flatlining , leave british family significantly poor than those in France and Germany ; and a country expose to fossil fuel market , which lead directly to the bad cost of living and energy bill crisis in generation . whatever the Conservatives may like to say to wriggle out of that inestimable fact , they leave a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , with no plan to fix it and — this be the bad part — unfeasible departmental spending target stretch into future year . our response of capital gain tax rise , air passenger duty and agricultural property relief undoubtedly fall on those with the broad shoulder who be most able to bear those increase . may I clarify whether the hon . Member believe that the farmer make on average less than £ 45 , 000 year , and the 25 % make less than £ 20 , 000 a year , be those with the broad shoulder ? I thank the hon . Lady for that intervention . we be very clear : the number from HMRC show that very few of the sort of farm that she be refer to will be affect . actually , it say everything to I that the person lead the march last week have boast that he have spend £ 4 . 25 million on a farm in order to avoid inheritance tax . this be a Budget to reset our finance after year of chaos , with difficult but necessary decision — decision we have not dodge , unlike the previous Government . this Labour Government be elect to fix the foundation of our economy and to begin to rebuild the public service that people across our country — include my resident in Dartford , whom I be privileged to represent in this place — really need . the measure in the Bill will rebalance the tax system , protect work people and raise the crucial revenue so desperately need for our public service at a time when their performance be unfortunately at a historic low . what do this Budget mean for people live in my constituency , in Dartford , Swanscombe , Greenhithe and Ebbsfleet ? People live across my constituency rely on their excellent district general hospital at Dare nt Valley , which be full of brilliant , hard - work staff who do their absolute well ; however , after 14 year of a Conservative Government , capacity in the hospital have just not keep up with need . Dartford borough be the second fast grow local authority area in the period cover by the last census , thank largely to the development of Ebbsfleet Garden City , but investment in service have not keep up with the need of a grow population . the more than £ 25 billion announce in the Budget over two year for our health service will cut waiting time , thank to 40 , 000 extra elective appointment each week and the capacity for more than 30 , 000 additional procedure . thank to the new home in Ebbsfleet and across Dartford , we be also become a much young constituency , as young couple settle in our community and start family . we warmly welcome these new resident , and I be confident they will welcome the Chancellor ' s decision to increase the core school budget by more than £ 2 billion a year , mean the recruitment of 6 , 500 teacher , and the additional £ 1 billion investment to address the break special educational need system in Dartford and across our country . if conservative Members disapprove of the revenue - raise measure in the Budget , it really be incumbent on they to say which bit of that extra investment they would cut . I be afraid we be back to magic money tree economic — we hear that very clearly from the shadow Chancellor . all these measure form part of our manifesto commitment to break down the barrier to opportunity , of which sadly far too many remain . finally , and perhaps most importantly for the long - term prospect of our country , I hope the whole House will support the Government ' s strong focus on boost public investment by more than £ 100 billion over the next five year . this be an area where we have be sadly lack when compare with our international competitor . the announcement have be far enhance by the Chancellor ' s Mansion House speech , which include proposal to unlock the power of our pension fund to invest in our country . against that background , it would be remiss of I not to mention a project that hon . member across the Chamber might remember I describe in previous contribution as shovel - ready . the propose new low Thames crossing be crucial to unlock the growth that the new Government be seek , both in the south - east and beyond , and could be start very quickly , with much of the preparatory work already have be undertake . it would create job and unlock investment across the Thames estuary , address the large traffic bottleneck in the UK , and allow freight to move much more easily from port in the south - east to destination across the country . I will end as I begin . I recognise that these be difficult decision and that they will not be welcome by all ; however , we must not duck the tough choice need to restore the foundation of economic stability in our country and our public service . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate . let we travel back in time to those halcyon day for the Labour party : so confidently predict victory in the election , so far ahead in the opinion poll and so clear on the prospectus they lay before the british people . it have a fully fund , fully cost programme . when the now Chancellor be challenge about whether she have a full insight into the public finance , she assure the interviewer , if I recall correctly , that absolutely she do . therefore , people could rely on the cast - iron promise , which all Labour Members stand on , that Labour would not raise national insurance , would not raise income tax , would protect farmer and would not cut pensioner ’ benefit . that be the promise . but it be well than that . it be not just that Labour be not go to bring in all those taxis , but that it be go to make growth their no . 1 mission for a mission - lead Government . those who fear a return to a sort of socialist job - destroy and enterprise - wreck past could be reassure that this be a moderate party that have put the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) well behind it , no matter how many Labour Members have say he be a great friend and would make a great Prime Minister . they have change their mind . there be a moderate promise . it be not only member of the public who be lead to believe in the Labour mission and what it could bring for the country . imagine Labour Members , the people who be select as candidate for the Labour party , who come in not to Jeremy Corbyn ' s Labour party but to this Labour party of enterprise , protect worker and encourage a low - tax system , but do so in a way that none the less would prioritise the healthcare system , special educational need child and the like . that be the promise and it do not just beguile many people in the country — although not that many , as only 34 % of people actually do vote labour , but none the less enough . imagine what it be like — I say this to Opposition Members — to come to this place and be a part of that fantastic crew of hundred and hundred of Labour mp to deliver that manifesto . and where be we now at the historic Second reading of the Finance Bill of the central policy measure of this new Government . where be they ? will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? they have be humiliate in the Budget debate , as one after another repeat their rote word . it be the most intellectually empty Budget debate I have ever take part in . I listen to Labour Member after Labour Member trot out their " 14 year of chaos " and their " £ 22 billion black hole " . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? it would be entirely wrong of I , give how few Labour Members there be in the Chamber prepare to defend the Budget , if I do not now give way to one of they . I thank the right hon . gentleman for finally give way . I wonder if he might use the opportunity to reflect on the economic record of the previous Government , which see the high interest rate and inflation through the roof that affect people ' s pocket and their ability to get on in life . will he also reflect on the fact that his party lose the election and perhaps show some humility ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady . I be happy to do so , although it be worth point out that we be suppose to reflect today on the actual proposal put forward by the Government of which she be now a member . but the hon . Lady be right to highlight the Conservative ' s economic record . I have a criticism of those of we on the conservative Benches : I do not think we do enough to talk about it . from 2010 to 2024 , which economy in Europe grow the most ? be it Germany or the UK ? oh , it be the UK ! be it France or the UK ? oh , it be the UK ! which country in Europe create 4 million more job ? for which Government do the horrible scar of youth unemployment , which be a permanent feature even in the good year prior to the crash — for those interested in the history of employment — stay horribly high , with its long - term scar impact on young people ? it be the Labour Government . all that be turn around . People be pay tax at £ 6 , 500 when Labour leave power . that be lift to £ 12 , 500 . they may be decry and disown their part in the coalition Government , but the Liberal Democrats should have some pride in what we be able to do together . we inherit an economic basket case . we bring discipline back . but while we be fix the foundation , we do not lose sight of the fact that we know where the wealth come from . it come from the private sector , not the public sector — from those small shop , those restaurant , all those other business on which the country rely for its wealth . this Budget have go down and damage each and every one of they , one by one . it have look around for target — the " broad shoulder " for the socialist envy to vent itself on — and who well than landowner ? so the Budget focus on people . I be not an expert on every area of the economic life of this country , but let we suppose that I look across the entire economy and try to find people in private enterprise use their own asset . where would people have million of pound in asset and be prepared to receive a 1 % return on they ? who would keep that up , year after year , simply in order to feed the nation as part of a pact — a compact — between they and the Government , indeed the whole country ? who would be prepared to do that , and to feed we , while ask so little in return ? attack farmer , of all group in society , be one of the most retrograde and regrettable of attack . as my right hon . friend know , I work for a charity for six year — or a decade , as the Chancellor of the Exchequer like to call it . would he care to reflect on the damage do to charity by this Government ' s Budget ? they be already in a squeeze , and the Government have squeeze they far through their decision on employment right and also through taxation in the Budget . we be see a kind of socialist envy and attack on misguided target . for instance , child with special educational need in private school will be pull out of those school mid - year because their family can no long afford to send they there . that be not the intent ; not only do Labour Members want to stand on an honest prospectus , but that be not , I be sure , what they want . nevertheless , that be what be happen . [ interruption . ] it be exactly what be happen . my hon . friend be right , however , to point out that this be not just about a class - base assault on people who do not deserve to be assault . it be also about sheer ineptitude . let we consider the £ 22 billion for the NHS . why so little for social care ? surely Labour Members , however green and new to the House , must be aware that the NHS depend on the social care system , but because of the increase in national insurance contribution and the minimum wage , its cost be rise by about £ 2 . 5 billion and it be get £ 600 million . hospice will be affect , and so will small charity . order . I remind the right hon . Gentleman , and indeed all other member , that this be , specifically , a Finance Bill Second reading debate . we be not have a general debate on the Budget . I be extremely grateful to you for your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will try not to refer too much to the impact of national insurance contribution , because we will have that opportunity next Tuesday . none the less , my hon . friend be right to talk about the impact of this Budget overall , and the effect on hospice and charity in particular . yesterday I meet the chief executive of HICA , a large not - for - profit provider of social care home and in - home care . HICA be a brilliant organisation , which have make real progress over the last few year . it finally manage to make a surplus last year , so it can pay its staff more than the minimum wage and invest in its stock . now it be face a £ 3 . 5 million impact on its £ 40 million turnover as a result of this Budget and this Finance Bill . as well as farmer , oil and gas have be touch on today . when I be the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , it always strike I as absurd to look at the production of oil and gas rather than the consumption . it be the consumption that be the problem . we must change our factory , our vehicle , our building , so that they no long need oil and gas if we be to move away from they . attack production when it be drive by demand be attack the wrong end . in this measure , the Labour Government be raise the energy profit levy , on top of refuse to issue new licence . the net effect of that , notwithstanding the Liberal Democrats ' say that they support the policy — I do not know why or how they can do so — will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will in a moment . this do not make the slight difference to how much we consume , but it mean that we import more from abroad , and , in the case of liquefy natural gas , those import have embed emission four time high than the emission of what we produce domestically . we be go to bring this in from place that be less careful than we be in its production . we be go to lose ten of thousand of job and £ 13 billion of tax revenue , and we be go to lose the engineering expertise and company that we need for the transition . there be literally no way to make that make sense , and I hope the hon . Lady will now do a u - turn and see the logic of my argument . I will resist that invitation . do the right hon . Gentleman understand the nature of a windfall tax ? it raise money on the windfall that a sector be not expect . we know that the big oil and gas giant base their investment plan on the profit that they be expect , but clearly they raise a lot more money because of Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . windfall taxis have be place on the big oil and gas giant for the profit over and above what they be expect to receive . the hon . Lady do not actually refer to the measure in front of we . I know it be the Liberal Democrats ’ policy to have a windfall tax on anyone who do not sound popular — big bank , big tech , and oil and gas . that be their answer . if anyone say , " how would you do it ? " , they trot that out and lose not a single vote , because the very definition of not take a tough choice be suggest that there be easy money . the measure in front of we , which the hon . Lady specifically say she support , be not a windfall tax . it be a further tax , in tandem with the removal of any new licence , which effectively destroy investment in the North sea . I point to Apache — which say it be look to withdraw by 2029 , risk 500 job — Harbour Energy , JAPEX and Chevron , to name just a few . they be pull out , and there be no environmental benefit . we be lose all that tax , all those job and all that expertise , which be exactly what we need for carbon capture , and for hydrogen , for the green economy . it be utterly insane . I note that there be very few Labour Members present . I watch they as they come in for the Budget , full of cherry - cheek enthusiasm and read out their whip - prepare rote remark about the disaster leave behind , which , as we know , be the fast - grow economy in the G7 , with inflation at target , debt come down and the economy come up . they be not all mad , socialist loon , and day by day we can see they lose spirit in the Tea Room and in the corridor as they realise that the deceit that their Front Benchers practise not only on the people , but on they , be come home to roost . the Government will pour all of the £ 22 billion into the NHS in the next year — it be in the figure — and we be suppose to believe that public service will rise by 1 . 3 % or 1 . 4 % in the rest of the period up to the next general election . be that credible ? it be not . I think Labour member know that , which be what they have signal by their absence , because they realise , as we do , that this Finance Bill and the Budget be ruinous for this country . my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) be absolutely right to say that they make this country more vulnerable to the shock that may and most likely will come , and it will be the Labour party that own the mistake that be be sow today . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) , who give a wonderful maiden speech . I be sure that her daughter Lillian will look on she as a lovely role model as she move forward . early this month , we witness an historic moment as the first ever female Chancellor deliver the Government ' s Budget — a comprehensive plan that be design to support work people , rebuild our economy and bring fiscal responsibility back to the heart of Government . the Budget deliver a plan for recovery , a plan to undo the damage leave by the previous Government and , most importantly , a plan that will benefit the people of Halesowen and the wide community . however , let we be clear : this Government inherit a dire financial situation . [ interruption . ] it be true . the Chancellor expose a £ 22 billion black hole that be leave by the previous Government , and a series of undeliverable promise that the Conservatives know they would never have to keep . the last Government know that they have no money to deliver their agenda , yet they conceal the truth from the british people , leave the incoming Government to pick up the piece . the Budget be about sort this out , and we be commit to do just that . our economy face multiple challenge , include high debt , underfunde public service and rise youth unemployment , but the true cost of the past 14 year be feel most acutely by the people who have be leave behind . in Halesowen I hear from resident every day : people who have be wait week for a doctor ' s appointment ; people who be force to travel mile to receive healthcare ; and people who be completely unable to access their NHS dentist . fourteen year of cut have leave our NHS in crisis , and no matter someone ' s political affiliation , no one can deny the challenge our health service face . but it be not just in healthcare . our school , road , railway — all of this infrastructure — have suffer from year of under - investment . our public service be fall apart . it be tempting for member to read out the rote stuff that be give to they — as some of the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague have be prepare to do , but be mostly not prepared to do today — but I just gently point out that there be never a reduction in NHS spending ; in real term it go up in every single year . if there be a belief that the NHS can be magically turn around by have above - inflation increase in spending alone , I can assure the hon . Gentleman that that be not true , because we do it every year and we still have demand go beyond the resource . the right hon . Gentleman will have notice that we reach record NHS waiting list under the last government , more than 7 million people wait and many of my constituent wait over two year . if he think the investment in the NHS by the last Government be enough , he be completely wrong . our road be literally crumble , work family be struggle and the hope of upward mobility be slip far out of reach . we can not let this continue . the Government be face with what the Institute for Fiscal Studies have describe as a genuinely difficult inheritance . the truth be that the last 14 year can be describe as , at good , a period of manage decline ; or at bad , wilful neglect . the last Government will be characterise as an Administration that allow service to erode and future generation to be abandon . we must take a different approach and offer real change . we be not pretend that the work ahead will be easy , but we be determined to rebuild and restore . a key part of this recovery be invest in our most vital public service , especially the NHS , which can not survive on good will alone . the Budget commit to inject much - need fund into our healthcare system , secure a lifeline for the NHS that will allow it to begin this recovery . the Budget be also about present an offer to work people who have be neglect for so many year , include a rise in the minimum wage to boost the living standard of 3 million low - pay worker ; NHS funding to support 2 million more operation , scan and appointment every year ; fuel duty freeze for another year , provide relief to driver and family ; a £ 500 million investment to fund the construction of 5 , 000 more social home ; a significant increase in the carer ' s allowance earning limit , because those who care for our love one deserve our support ; and a crackdown on tax avoidance , fraud and waste , ensure that the super - wealthy pay their fair share of tax . the decision in the Budget , though some be difficult in the short term , be the right one for the long - term good of our country . this be a Finance Bill that prioritise public service and work people without raise taxis on the majority . it be about restore fairness , rebuild trust and set the country on a new path towards growth . it be also important to remember that fiscal responsibility be central to this Government ' s approach . the IFS have praise the soundness of our fiscal rule , ensure that our effort to drive growth be sustainable and the public finance remain on a stable footing . change the fiscal rule to allow more investment be both sensible and necessary , and this investment will boost long - term growth . the Bill be not just about recovery ; it be about secure a prosperous future . business in Halesowen have be struggle , especially on our high street , where many have be force to close their door in recent year . I have hear the concern of small business owner and the concern share by the Black Country chamber of commerce , and I be pleased that the Chancellor ' s plan include support for high street business , include business rate reform , which will give local shop the chance to compete against tax - avoid multinational . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech highlight a whole series of important point . I just wonder whether he be go to come to the cut in beer duty . I know there be a number of famous brewer in his area and this be an important measure for many brewing town — [ interruption . ] this be an important point for many brewing town and many small , related business in that sector . I have a number of sme in my own constituency that will benefit from this , as well as pub . do my hon . friend welcome this measure , as well as the important measure he have mention for small business in town centre ? I welcome the 1p reduction in tax on beer . I have speak to many business in my constituency ' s hospitality sector , include many pub , that be happy with this measure , which they hope will increase the footfall in our town centre and in their business . I be also delighted that the Budget confirm £ 20 million of investment in the redevelopment of Haden Hill leisure centre in Cradley Heath in my constituency , and £ 20 million of investment in Halesowen town centre , to redevelop what be become a difficult area . the Bill will ensure that local asset that serve the community be protect and enhance . it mark a turning point for our country , lay the groundwork for a well future . it be a plan that protect our public service , support work people and put the economy on a sustainable path . I fully support this Bill for Halesowen and beyond . it deliver hope , invest in community and fix the foundation of the economy , so that we can deliver the change for which the country vote . this Finance Bill be bad news for my Woking constituency . in the Budget , the Government announce an extra £ 1 . 3 billion for local authority . that might sound good , but the reality be stark . inflation , rise wage and increase demand for service mean that council be face a £ 6 . 2 billion funding gap over the next two year . by fail to provide adequate funding in this Budget and Finance Bill , the Government be push some council to the brink of bankruptcy . the situation be even bad in Woking , as our local authority have already go bankrupt . woke borough council , a small authority in a two - tier structure , be carry £ 2 . 1 billion - worth of debt . member can guess which political party run the council at the time : the Conservatives . it be an eye - watering figure , and taxpayer should never be put in the position of foot such a bill , but they will have to shoulder it . as part of the Government intervention in Woking , the borough council will have to sell a lot of its asset to try to pay off the debt . however , at current value , those asset be worth £ 1 billion , which be a huge gap that put the council in massive negative equity . the Government like to talk about a £ 22 billion black hole , but I fear the black hole be bad than they realise . to understand these issue , Ministers need to look at local government bad debt and off - balance - sheet debt . it be quite possible that my local authority alone will not repay £ 1 billion of debt that this Finance Bill assume will be repay . woking be just one local authority in one constituency out of 650 . this Finance Bill make mistake , but it could be even bad if it be build on flawed foundation . one way for my constituency to get out of the mess we have inherit be to grow the town , so that our economy grow and improve . however , I worry that this Budget and Finance Bill undermine that goal . the measure go after small business , which be the lifeblood of my high street and community . I be particularly concerned that the increase in alcohol duty will hit small brewery , such as Thurstons in my constituency . like many of my constituent and neighbour , I use bus all the time . bus be a lifeline for we . the £ 2 fare cap be helpful during the cost - of - living crisis and encourage people back on to the bus after the covid pandemic . however , the Government be now scrap it . a resident from Knaphill tell I : " the rise be concern . with a £ 1 increase each way , it will put even more strain on pensioner like I . " it amount to an extra £ 500 a year for someone who commute by bus every day . that be a huge burden at a time when household and family in my constituency and elsewhere be already struggle . bus be not just a convenience or a luxury ; they be the backbone of local economy , connect people to work , school , college , shop and healthcare . if this government be serious about economic growth , they should be invest in bus , not hit passenger with what be effectively a bus tax on work people . in their election campaign , the Labour party promise not to increase taxis on worker , but this Budget and Finance Bill do just that . at a time when people be face the bad cost of live crisis in decade , this Finance Bill increase the tax burden on everyone . the liberal Democrat manifesto and our reason amendment show that there be a fair way . we have bold plan to properly fund the NHS , social care and other public service by ask big bank , oil and gas giant and big tech company to pay their fair share . our plan be ambitious , which be what this country need ; labour ' s Budget do not come close . the Finance Bill do not go far enough to protect people and the service that they rely on . the Government need to get their priority right . the Liberal Democrats be against the Bill because it do not effectively tackle the crisis in social care , or reverse cut to winter fuel support . it do not support people with the cost of living crisis , and it introduce a shocking tax on education . woking deserve well , and this country deserve well . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) on her phenomenal maiden speech . she be already prove to be a powerful advocate for her constituent . the Finance Bill be a necessary corollary to the Budget . it be the beginning of a process that the new Labour Government be undertake to rebuild the foundation of our country , after an incredibly poor inheritance from the predecessor Government . I have be quite shocked to hear the joy with which Conservative Members have be speak about the phenomenal economy that they leave the country with . it be an economy in which wage growth have flatline at the low level since the napoleonic war , leave household £ 10 , 000 bad off per person . Trade have fall 15 % low than our neighbour ' , and national debt go from 64 % in 2010 to 96 % just before the pandemic . I know they love blame the pandemic for everything , but thing be pretty bad before the pandemic . the heart of the problem be that the conservative lack credibility . in 2010 , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) stand for election on a manifesto that say that the Conservatives would " eliminate " the deficit by the end of the Parliament . in 2015 , he stand for election on a manifesto that say the same thing , as he do in 2017 . in 2019 , he and his colleague decide to give up entirely on tackle the national debt , which be one of many thing that we now have to tackle . of course , that be the more rational end of the previous 14 year , and there be seven chancellor in 14 year , by the way . we have the blip , which I know conservative Members do not like talk about , when one of their Chancellors , with the backing of a Prime Minister , Liz Truss , promise £ 45 billion — 2 % of gdp — of unfunded tax cut . I be incredulous that the Conservatives be talk about gilt early . gilt move more in one week under Liz Truss than in a whole year on average . there be no comparison — order . the hon . Gentleman be in the Chamber when I ask member to return to debate the Finance Bill , rather than the rather context of the Budget . I be , Madam Deputy Speaker . I try to intervene on the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness a number of time , but he would not give way , so I feel I have to squeeze in a couple of point before get to the Finance Bill . the Finance Bill include many important measure that I support . the freeze on fuel duty be an important and welcome decision by the Chancellor . the Conservatives impose a stealth tax on the country by freeze threshold on income tax , and the Chancellor rightly commit to change that in 2028 . it be a revenue - raise Budget , but despite all the change , we will have capital gain and corporation tax rate that be very competitive with those of our G7 colleague . my constituency need this budget because it need stability . it need the investment that this Budget will bring . that investment be crucial because the legacy that I talk about span a number of area , include a lack of public investment . the Institute for Public Policy Research say that nearly £ 500 billion less be invest in the public sector than in comparable economy , as we can see in our public service , hospital and school . the Budget be about choice . it be a difficult budget , and not a perfect budget , because of the inheritance . we have to deal with the fact . there be disagreement on the Budget , but people who disagree with the revenue - raise measure and agree with the spending have to say what taxis they would have increase . I say gently to liberal Democrat colleague , who have find other source of income , that the Institute for Fiscal Studies effectively say that their plan to raise income elsewhere have no real credibility . this be a difficult budget , but it be the beginning of plot a course for stability , economic growth and investment in public service in our country . that be what my constituent very much hope will be the legacy . it be a very long - stand principle , observe all but universally around the world , that we do not tax education , because it be a public good . some family find that independent education cater to need that the state simply do not ; that be the case with school in the music and dance scheme or in certain faith community . in some case , a family choose an independent school because of their child ' s special need — or because , for whatever reason , that be the place where their child can be happy . whatever the circumstance and whatever the reason , we believe in the sanctity of the principle of parental choice . many place around the world recognise the value of that choice through the tax system . this country be not one of they . there be no tax break for use independent education provider . everybody contribute — [ interruption . ] do someone want to make an intervention ? I would love to hear it . I thank the right hon . member for invite I to intervene . I remind he that the IFS have confirm that there be enough capacity in the state sector for the transfer of pupil . also , on the point of special educational need — thank you . order . the right hon . Member will know full well that it be for I to decide if the hon . Lady ' s intervention be too long . the right hon . member may also recognise that the Government have be clear that when special educational need be be meet in the private sector , vat will not apply . on three count , I be afraid that be incorrect . first , it do not cover everybody with special need at a private school . secondly , the IFS have not say that there be ample space in state school , nor could it possibly know that . thirdly , and most importantly , the point on which I be heckled , and on which I invite somebody to intervene , be a completely different one . my point be that unlike in quite a large number of country , here there be no tax break for those use independent education provider . everybody contribute towards state education through general taxation ; if we take up a private school place , that contribution do not reduce . in the modelling that go with the Finance Bill , the Government say that they expect a little over £ 1 . 5 billion to be raise from the measure in maturity . we do not know the detail of the modelling and how robust the analysis be . however , I agree , intuitively , with the Treasury that a small part of the effect will be feel immediately in January , but that the effect will really start from September 2025 . it will be feel gradually , through some child leave the independent sector ; the big effect will probably be from those who do not start in the independent sector in the first place , or who do not start their next phase of education in the sector . I be not totally clear from what the Treasury have publish whether it factor in all the effect of the change . it obviously factor in family who be directly price out of the independent sector , but what about those who be indirectly displace , because they be at a school where a number of other family be price out and the school have to close ? do it factor in the high number of education , health and care plan application that will be make , and the much high than average per - place cost that the state will have to meet for those displace ? I be also unclear whether the Treasury ' s analysis look at all the effect on independent education cumulatively . yes , there be the vat , which be in the Finance Bill , but there be also a number of other measure be take this year that materially affect the cost base of independent school , and that be likely to be reflect in fee . they include the increase contribution to the teacher pension scheme ; business rate change , which affect about half of independent school ; and the massive hike in employer national insurance contribution , which will affect so many sector . all those be transfer from the independent state sector to the Exchequer , so the real increase in the cost base for that sector will be considerably more than 20 % over the course of the year . in the Minister ' s sum up , I would love she to tell we what assumption be make about the total average price increase . whatever it be , the Government calculate that , in the policy ' s maturity , 37 , 000 child will be displace from the independent sector , and of those , 35 , 000 will go to the state sector . minister say , " Don ' t worry ; there be load of place available in the state sector . " in fact , the hon . member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) suggest that a third party have say that as well , and the Exchequer Secretary say it again in his remark . he say that we be talk about 0 . 5 % of the total population in state school . it be useless to have place available in primary school in inner London if that be not the age group of people leave the independent sector . the effect will be uneven across the country , and need be concentrate largely in secondary school and sixth form . there be plenty of place where even a small number of child be displace from one sector to the other could have a big effect on the state school system . what discussion have Ministers have with colleague , and with council in Salford , Stockport , Sale , Bury , Bedford , Bristol and so on ? I could name considerably more . what contingency plan be in place ? indicate dissent . the hon . Gentleman shake his head . I take it that mean that he have not have those conversation . [ interruption . ] I be happy to take an intervention from he . what contingency plan be in place for September if the displacement be great than anticipate ? we know that the money will follow the pupil if more pupil turn up in the state sector , but we have not hear whether that money be come out of general Exchequer receipt — in other word , that the Department for Education will not be expect to find that money from elsewhere in its budget . similarly , what be the contingency plan , and what capital have be set aside in case extra capital funding be need ? as well as the displacement of pupil , there be also potential displacement of teacher , as we have hear from the union . as the right hon . Gentleman encourage I to intervene , I will agree that there will be a movement of teacher from the private sector back to the state sector . as a former teacher , I know a number of former colleague who leave the state sector because of the failing of the last Conservative Government , and they be consider go back into state education only because of the hope that the new Labour Government have give they . well , we shall see . as a teacher , he will know that teacher move between the state and independent sector all the time . they move in both direction , but that be not what the Association of School and College Leaders be talk about . it be talk about the fact that the change be be make mid - year , and say that it carry a risk of redundancy , and of the permanent loss of teacher to the profession . Labour Members — the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) be one of they — frequently like to say to Opposition Members that we have to choose . they say : " be you on the side of the many or the few ? be you with 94 % or the 6 % ? " . well , we refuse to choose . it be not a question of whether we care about the 94 % or the 6 % . we care about the 100 % — all the child . it be definitely true and right that at the Department for Education — this be true when I be a Minister there — minister spend way more than 94 % of their time and effort on the state sector . in our time in government , between 2010 and 2024 , that pay off with huge result . when we support our brilliant teacher in their great work , our result go up . we go from 27th in the world to 11th for math , and from 25th in the world to 13th for read . we have the good primary school reader in the western world . free school meal eligible child be 50 % more likely to go on to university , and the number of school rate less than good be down from one in three to few than one in 10 . that be through support teacher , academy trust , a broad knowledge - rich curriculum and the propagation and spread — from school to school and teacher to teacher — of prove method , such as math mastery and synthetic phonic . yes , the system do also need money . per - pupil funding under the last Government be high than it be under previous Labour government . among the G7 nation , it be middle of the range in cash per child , and the high as a proportion of national income . of course , we have to keep increase the resourcing that we put into key service , none more so than education , but the Conservatives do that as a priority from general taxation , not by take from another part of the wide education system . I repeat : the Government do not have to choose . these be all child . will the right hon . Gentleman clarify his comment that all the education spending that he mention come from general taxation ? my understanding be that the figure that he just quote include the student loan system . no , they do not . if the hon . Gentleman be talk about the OECD figure , they be for primary , secondary and college - base education in the state sector , but I be grateful to he for his intervention . when Government member talk about " the 6 % " in the same tone in which they sometimes talk about " the 1 % " , I think they believe that they be about to topple the toff and achieve some sort of great victory in the class war . they be not . Eton college will not miss a heartbeat over this measure . the pupil who will be hit will be those in small town school — the one that be significant employer locally and a big part of the local community . they do not have big endowment ; they do have pretty thin margin . school that cater to child with special educational need will be hit . denominational school will be hit . there have be some concession from the Government . they be not the most massive concession in the world , but they be not nothing either . we should acknowledge they , and I thank the Government for they . the first be on the music and dance scheme , with extra help for family with child at the school in question , albeit that the concession will benefit only a little less than half the total number of family in what be a means - test scheme anyway . there be also the confirmation that centre for advanced training will be exempt , and of what the Government plan to do on the continuity of education allowance . we need to ensure that those mitigation be more comprehensive than they be now , and that they become permanent . of course , the opposition would prefer the Government to drop this measure altogether and not be the international outlier by tax education , but if they be determined to bulldoze on , we must have key change in Committee . we must have an exemption for all child with an EHCP — not only if it specify the individual school — child who have SEN support , and those who be currently apply for an EHCP . we must have exemption for school whose fee be low than the average charge in the state sector , and for religious denomination where there be no faith school provision in the state sector . I do not accept the notion that , as Ministers have say at the Dispatch Box , member of religious faith community be not discriminate against by this measure . it may well be that , as a whole , people of faith be not discriminate against more than other because the vast majority of people of religious faith be in the state sector anyway , where there be plenty of catholic school , anglican school and other denominational school , but it be not credible in the slight to claim that there be no discrimination , and that the effect will not be feel much more strongly by member of certain tradition within Judaism , Christianity and Islam . we also need key postponement . child who be already in public exam year , or the year before public exam , can not have their education disrupt in this way . the school that they move to may not even offer the same gcse or a - level , the same exam board or the same syllabus . most significantly of all , the Government must for good reason , include simple practical reason , at least postpone the introduction of the measure in area where state school be already full , or almost full , at that stage of education , because the big effect of this divisive , destructive tax attack will be on state school . it will be feel in class size , and ultimately in all parent ' ability to get the preferred choice of school for their child . I pay tribute to Conservative Members for embrace their role in opposition . they be throw their whole heart into it , and it be wonderful to see they in their rightful place — long may it continue . I be the Member for Darlington , where a quarter of the Treasury be base , and my wonderful home town be fill with people from all walk of life . we share the unifying belief that despite our rich railway heritage we do not like to be take for a ride . the coalition of people who elect I come from every part of the town , from people work two job , worry about keep their child feed , right across to people earn six figure who vote Labour for the first time because they be worried about the lack of opportunity for their child to succeed . the people in that coalition lead different life but agree completely on their reason for vote Labour . their reason be the same as for those up and down the country who vote for Labour for the first time in drove : the Conservatives have crash our economy and stifle growth , and all those people be bad off because of it . as a member of the prestigious Treasury Committee , I be privileged to hear the view of the top economic leader in our country . their advice be clear : growth and investment require economic stability , and this Finance Bill will deliver economic stability . our Labour Government be elect to offer industry and the market the assurance they need that Britain be back in business . the Bill do just that . our Labour Government be elect to ensure that people in every corner of the country can be well off . this Finance Bill will create the condition to do just that . our Labour Government be elect to get our child ' s future back — a future that they can be excite about , with a life fill with opportunity , prosperity and public service that work when they need they . the Bill be essential to deliver just that . I be proud to stand here to champion a Bill that will create the condition for long - term investment in my area . the huge amount of investment from big business that this Government have already crowd in be testament to the fantastic reputation our country have on the global stage — a reputation that the last three Prime Ministers nearly destroy . while the conservative chop and change their leader , chancellor and policy , the market , business leader and global investor step back . they watch and wait to see if the new Prime Minister know what they be do , or if the next new Prime Minister have the backing of their colleague . they watch and wait to see the new Prime Minister ' s long - term vision for the country , but scandal after disastrous scandal lead they to lose confidence — order . the hon . Lady should sit when I be on my foot . this need to be a debate about the Finance Bill , not other matter , and certainly not a general debate on the Budget again . the Conservatives stop answer the phone to Labour ; the industry ghost they ; and then the country reject they . but , on the Finance Bill , not 100 day into this new Labour Government , Britain be back open for business with billion of pound of investment in green technology , new nuclear , solar and hydro project be give the go - ahead , and a whopping £ 63 billion of private investment crowd in . tough choice be take to fix the foundation and to stabilise the economy — choice only necessary because of the incompetence , inertia and wilful ignorance of the last Government . to govern be to choose , and I be proud to have choose to stabilise the economy , invest in net zero and energy independence , balance the book and begin to rebuild our public service , all in the service of work people . this House will pass the Bill ; the economy will be stabilise ; and every corner of our great country will be well off , and not a moment too soon . it be a great pleasure to have an opportunity to speak to the Bill . I would have think it would be a pleasure enjoy by many more people on the Government Benches . last time I check — it have be a while since I be at university — it be quite important to have constituent ' view hear on the Finance Bill and the Budget . it be scandalous how quiet the Government Benches be . we will have in the order of eight Labour speech today , which be just unbelievable . if one be a Unionist , and I be not — [ interruption . ] be that an intervention ? no , it be not . if I be , this would be an opportunity . the Government have an opportunity , with the mandate they have , to create a Budget for change , but this Budget will leave million bad off . the Budget last month have some moment of cheer in it , and I will touch on they now because it will not take long . there be scope within the Finance Bill for increased investment , which the SNP have call for . there be scope within the Budget for increased funding for the NHS all across the United Kingdom ; again , the SNP have call for that , and it be welcome to see . tackle the most elite of all the elite , the non - dom , be also welcome , as be the ambition to tackle the scourge of vape . thereafter , though , we get into serious difficulty . I will start with the Bill ' s clause 15 to 18 , a further and final attack on North sea oil and gas , Scotland ' s natural endowment . the UK have draw hundred of billion of pound from the North sea over the course of my lifetime , the past 50 year . it be almost as though the UK be addict to it — so much so that it be go to kill the goose that lay the golden egg . the Government be hike taxis , erode allowance and drive investment from the North sea , include precisely the business that we need to drive the just transition to net zero in the place where we need they . what other state would attack one of its own industry in this way ? it beggar belief . it will come home to roost in spade , and it will not shift the dial one bit towards the net zero future that we be try to get to . the oil and gas that be be displace from the scottish sector by this Government ' s ineptitude will be replace by oil and gas from other jurisdiction , where the tax will be pay and where , doubtless , human right be very much bad . clause 61 contain the universally detest provision on agricultural property relief . the way in which this Government have manipulate the figure to justify this mendacious attack on one of the most noble profession anywhere in the world , and certainly across these island , be simply unbelievable , as be the idea that 70 % of farm will not be affect by these provision . the fact that the Government habitually quote a circumstance in which two parent bequeath a farm at the same time — which almost never happen — show that they themselves know that they be on shaky ground . if the problem be non - farm enterprise invest in the purchase of agricultural land in tax - efficient way , tax that . that be what the Government should have have the bravery to do . there be no material enrichment from inherit the family farm — other member have talk today about the return on capital employ in farming be miserably low . it be as much a vocation as it be an employment , and we should never forget that the product of what farmer do feed we all . it be ridiculous , single - minded , myopic nonsense from another dysfunctional , fiscally incompetent Labour Government who would not know which way up be if somebody do not point it out to they . because farm be a business , we can add the imposition across the economy of the increase in employer ' s national insurance charge . if that be not enough , the Government have stick the boot in on four - door pick - up , turn they into family car for taxation purpose . pick - up be the backbone of the agricultural economy , but it seem that nothing be off limit for this Labour Government when it come to stick the boot into agriculture . what government seriously take on the people who produce our food ? I remind the government — I be guess , but I be pretty certain that they will not know — that malt barley be the prime ingredient in the Scotch whisky industry , which again produce billion for the UK Exchequer . on the topic of the Scotch whisky industry , do the hon . Member agree that increase the levy by 3 . 65 % , so that a bottle of whisky now have £ 12 of tax add before it be even out of the door , be another attack on one of Scotland ' s main industry ? I could not agree more with the hon . member . that be absolutely right , and I be go to touch on that topic a little later . we see in clause 75 that the rate of landfill tax be go up by 25 % . I wonder what discussion Government Ministers have have with local authority on the impact of this increase . it would be just like this government to not have put two and two together and realise that it will be a significant upward pressure on cost for council . clause 78 deal with high - sugar drink . a public health emergency exist in this country — in this state — and the Government be propose to increase the tax on high - sugar drink from 24p per litre to £ 2 . 59 per 10 litre . that be scarcely an increase at all . a tax of 24p per litre be go up to 25 . 9p per litre , an increase of 1 . 9p per litre . we do not sell sugary drink in litre , we sell they in 330 ml can , so that be an increase of 0 . 6p per can . be the Government kid ? it be a public health emergency — the clue be in the title . have they get no ambition at all ? this Bill , and the Budget that lead up to it , will impose billion of pound of tax rise and cut that will hit work scot in the pocket . we see our old folk freeze in their house as a result of this Bill and the Budget that underpin it . as a result of the Bill , young people will be chase few and few job with low and low wage . the CBI say this week that the tax rise in the Budget have send business into " crisis containment " and " damage control " , because this Chancellor ' s £ 40 billion raid on business be the single big tax increase since Norman Lamont ' s in 1993 . the Chancellor ' s decision hinge on 2 % departmental efficiency that will never ever be realise — we know this because it have never ever be do — so further cut be come down on top of these taxis . this be pure fiscal poison for community and business across these island . the Government be inflict the same pain on the northern hotel in Brechin , Perthshire Timber and Montrose port as they be inflict on Nissan and Tesco . I be not imply that it be fine for big business and bad for small business ; this be a " one size fit nobody " Finance Bill , and the Budget that go along with it be the same . the clawback that they be apply to the devolved nation , which the Exchequer Secretary would not speak about early , do not come close to meet the cost of the national insurance increase . there be £ 300 million of compensation for the Scottish Government , who be face a £ 750 million exposure , and that be the nature of what this Government be do . what of the reward for this fiscal pain ? low growth in the economy , low profit , increase debt , low investment , low wage , fall output , capital flight and the risk of default as the ultimate conclusion . it be almost as though the Chancellor have forget that her job be to run the economy , not ruin the economy . this would be a matter for separate debate — I know that , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I do not want to test your patience — but the raid on employer ' s national insurance will devastate small business , charity and the care sector . it will cost scottish public service — the public sector with direct employee in Scotland — £ 600 million , and when we include the partner agency work with our NHS and our care service , that figure will be very much high . supermarket and other retailer have also say that the inevitable result of the Chancellor ' s change will be high price for consumer . the Government make great play about not raise taxis , but it amount to the same thing when wage be suppress and price be go up . as the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) mention , the duty on Scotch whisky have be hike in this Bill , which the industry have call an " indefensible tax grab " . this be despite labour ' s leader in Scotland — for Labour Members ’ interest , he be a gentleman call Anas Sarwar — claim that he speak to the Chancellor about it . I would be very interested to know about that conversation , but perhaps it be : " be it okay if I hike up duty , Anas ? " with the reply , " yes , no bother , Chancellor . you carry on . " one of the glaring omission in the Bill be any provision for the WASPI woman . it be of course welcome that the Budget will address the great imposition put on people affect by the infected blood scandal and on postmaster . however , those be cause by the Post Office , or the NHS and other , whereas the WASPI woman issue be cause by the UK Government . that great tragedy be cause by the Government , yet it be the one that be not address in this Bill or in the broad Budget . it be therefore little wonder that polling in Scotland last week show that 75 % of scot feel they be go to be bad off , or certainly no well off , as a result of the Budget . since the Chancellor deliver her Budget , supermarket , farm , pub and telecom provider have all warn that these decision will be inflationary . do the hon . member think it be fiscally responsible for the SNP Finance Secretary to have use all of the £ 460 million from offshore wind ? he have speak a lot about this government , but do he think that that be appropriate ? to my great regret , I be not entirely sure what the hon . Member be talk about . if she would like , I be very happy to catch up with she afterwards . we can find out exactly what be concern she , and I will make sure she have all the fact she need . just when mortgage payer think thing be go to stabilise and that the bad of the last UK Government ' s fiscal incompetence be over , the major bank have be talk since the Budget about an increase in the rate they be able to offer . many hon . member have talk about what be say before the election , and what have come to pass after it , but during the election the Prime Minister promise that there would be a £ 300 reduction in energy price . we have see that that be not the case , and that energy price be £ 149 high and will go up by £ 21 in January . there be a £ 470 honesty tax on energy bill across the United Kingdom as a result of what people be tell be go to happen before the election , and what have come to pass at the hand of this Labour Government . the hon . Gentleman talk about honesty . it sound like he have read our manifesto , so do we say that we would reduce energy price by November 2024 ? do we say that we would raise the minimum wage , and do we do it ? I be pleased with the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . I can only assume he be a use car salesman in a previous life . we need to read the small print from labour : " we will reduce your energy bill by £ 300 . term and condition apply . " honestly , you couldn ' t make it up — [ interruption . ] I think they be probably speak to the hon . Gentleman , rather than I , Madam Deputy Speaker . thing do not end with the honesty tax I mention . this be a serious point , because 900 , 000 pensioner in Scotland will be strip of their winter fuel payment in the cold part of these island , without so much as a by your leave to the Scottish Government — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not — we have touch on a number of issue there . in closing , earning be set to grow by just 1 . 6 % in real term over this Parliament as a result of the Bill and the Budget that go with it , and that will extend the UK ' s long pay stagnation . the Resolution Foundation have find that " by 2028 , average weekly earning be set to be just £ 13 high than they be in 2008 . " furthermore , the Institute for Fiscal Studies state : " labour ' s spending plan after 2025 - 26 be unlikely to survive contact with reality " those be — [ interruption . ] I will take an intervention from the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) because he have goad I . the Government have take the difficult decision to mean - test the winter fuel allowance and protect the poor pensioner , but my understanding be that that be a devolved power in Scotland . the Scottish Government could have make the decision to use the resource they have , perhaps from wind as be discuss , to extend the allowance to more pensioner in Scotland , but they do not . they decide to enforce that cut in Scotland when they could have take a different path , particularly give the additional uplift of money that have come from this Budget . I do not know the hon . Gentleman . I have never set eye on he , but I will make the assumption that he be a Scottish Labour MP . I do not know who he be , because he have only just appear in the Chamber , despite the fact that we be two and a half hour into the debate — [ interruption . ] we have hear a lot from the hon . member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) as well . the hon . Gentleman ask I what the Scottish Government will do about the winter fuel payment , so let I tell he for the next time he be an apologist for the United Kingdom . the Labour Government devolve control over the winter fuel payment , and then effectively take the budget away by cut it for pensioner elsewhere in the United Kingdom . that be the trap of devolution . he do not want to see it , but I can see it fine . I do not know it , so I do not know how he know what the Scottish Government will do regard the winter fuel payment , and what target support they will provide in the winter ahead . one thing for sure , however , be that whoever in Scotland be stand up for pensioner , it certainly will not be the Labour party . in closing , it be no surprise that the Bill and the Budget hold nothing but pain for community , service and business in Scotland . labour take Scotland for grant . the Labour Government even ignore representation from their Westminster apologist with scottish constituency who sit on their own Benches . this be another tragic Budget for Scotland , and another push factor inexorably move we close to independence — at least the Budget be good for one thing . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) on a fantastic maiden speech . I be sure that her expertise in the tech sector will be an asset to this place . I welcome the ability to contribute to the debate on the Finance Bill . I be wholly supportive of the measure announce in the Budget that form the legislation . after 14 year of conservative mismanagement of our economy and the country , the public speak on 4 July and give a clear mandate to repair the dire circumstance we find ourselves in that leave my constituent foot the bill . the electorate know and show at the ballot box that they be in dire need of a grow - up Government that would not shy away from the hard decision . we have hear many contribution from Opposition Members set out the thing they do not like about the Budget . if they support the benefit of the Budget , we have not hear much about how they would fund those measure or what they would cut . my constituent vote for a Government who would finally ensure , after year of failure , that we would grow our economy , low the tax burden on work people and restore the fantastic public service that once upon a time make this country a world leader . my constituent understand that there be difficult decision to be make . they know that government be about make choice and decide what country we want to be in the future . they make their decision at the ballot box , do away with the Conservatives . my constituent choose to no long be a country with crumble road , a country that dip in and out of recession , a country with low investment ultimately steer by the hand of the Conservatives in a chaotic fashion that clobber their living standard . they vote for Labour , and with that they decide that they want to live in a country with monumental investment in its national health service , which will reduce waiting list — we be already see the benefit of that — and rebuild key hospital such as Leighton hospital in my constituency . they want to be in a country where their work be reward fairly and where minimum wage increase will put £ 1 , 400 a year into their pocket . not only that ; they want to live in a country — order . I be go to make the request that I have make at least twice — this could be third time or the fourth . please can member debate the Finance Bill ' s Second Reading , which be what we have on the Order Paper this afternoon ? this be not a general debate on the Budget . we debate the Budget several week ago and we can not keep cover old ground . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be about to move on to point cover by the Finance Bill . my constituent want to live in a country that level the play field and ensure that work family have as much opportunity at all stage of their life , regardless of their postcode or their background . that be why I support the Government ' s decision to end vat relief on private school , aim to equalise educational opportunity . I know that many family work hard to send their child to private school , but I have never meet a constituent who do not work hard just to make end meet , and their child also deserve the very good education that our country can provide . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] conservative member say " hear , hear ! " but we do not often hear they advocate for state school . as a former state school pupil with three daughter in a state school , let I assure the hon . member that , despite the caricature that sometimes he and other like to paint , not all Conservative Members be privately educate . I say to he quietly that it be not a choice of either / or ; we want to see excellence and choice in education right across the board . it be not one against the other . I thank the hon . member for make that intervention . he say that it be not a choice between one and the other , but for 14 year under the previous Government we hear his side talk about state school have to make difficult decision and tighten their belt . as the husband of a state schoolteacher , I know that our state school be severely underserve by the previous Government . the money generate by end the vat relief on private school will be vital to recruit the 6 , 500 more teacher that we need in our state school and to roll out free breakfast club across the country , to ensure that no child in education go hungry . do the hon . member know how many additional teacher be recruit in the last Parliament without put vat on private education ? do he know how many breakfast club be already in state school in this country ? there be thousand of they , thank to the national school breakfast programme . we have hear lot of contribution from the Opposition Benches about the fantastic record of the previous Government , but that do not stand up to the live reality of our constituent . that be exactly why we see the result that we have in the general election . the soon Opposition Members come to term with that result , the well . will the hon . member give way ? I be sorry , but I have give way several time already . I welcome the Government go even far in the Bill to level the play field and ensure that those with the broad shoulder take the heavy burden . that be why we need the legislation to close loophole such as the non - dom status , change the furnished holiday letting tax regime and provide more resource to HMRC to tackle the tax gap . that will help we address the financial black hole that the conservative party clearly have no regard for , claim do not exist and have fail to apologise for . the Bill will allow we to fix what the Leader of the opposition admit today be break foundation . I believe that the Government ' s Budget and the Bill will be a vital starting point on a long road to recovery for this country . I commend the Government for their work and support this Bill ' s progression through the House . may I start by congratulate the hon . member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) on her excellent maiden speech ? not only will her daughter have be inspire by her word , but so too will countless other young woman . I must declare a personal financial interest in relation to independent school fee . I want to start by tell a story of aspiration , sacrifice and hard work . this story be tell to I by a parent who be go into Christmas feeling devastate . they have work tirelessly , miss valuable time with their child , and sacrifice holiday and any form of luxury because of an aspiration to give their child an education that otherwise would have be out of reach . this parent say to I , " I be not a rich person ; I hustle every day to make the money I need to send my child to this school . " this parent will now see all those sacrifice come to nothing , as her child face the upheaval of move school in the middle of the academic year . let we imagine that child ' s first day in their new state school , their school year have be disrupt , and their effort to catch up on the miss learning as a consequence of be force to change school part way through the academic year . they join 35 , 000 other student across the country who be expect to do the same as a consequence of this policy . their classroom size swell as the promise of 6 , 500 new teacher remain year away from become a reality , and the school struggle to stretch its exist budget to accommodate the new intake . there be not enough textbook , computer or teacher . let we imagine the child with special educational need and disability . their routine have be overhaul , they start to fall behind in their class . despite the very good effort of their teacher , who want to provide the extra support so desperately need , they simply do not have the bandwidth . the consequence of that be child ' s future prospect slip through their finger every day , because the school they now attend have not be adequately resource for the arrival of they and their fellow new classmate . imagine be the parent of these child . they be not rich ; they just want the good for their child . as a consequence of one ill - conceived , ideologically drive policy , that dream have be snatch away , with no consideration of the impact it will have on family , on school and on teacher , who will be leave redundant . while the Government speak of a hope to bring aspiration to all , their policy to charge vat on independent school fee will do the precise opposite . it will not deliver high standard across the board . this be not a policy that lift up ; on the contrary , it will deliver the bad for all child . it be the very definition of level down . a government can not be expect to get thing right all the time , but it be not unreasonable to expect a Government to recognise when they have get something wrong . it be not unreasonable to expect a Government to hold up their hand and to pause , reflect and recalibrate . if the Government ' s true endeavour be to bring about policy for positive change , they must be willing to recognise when they need to change course , and this be that moment . I ask the Government to demonstrate some moral courage , admit that they have err and abandon this policy of folly . the Budget that be present to the House will turn the page on what have be a chaotic few year under the last government . it be also an opportunity for my constituent to welcome a budget that demonstrate a responsible government who will take tight fiscal rule seriously . the truth be that economic growth come when there be financial stability , and the first step towards financial stability be to ensure that the book be balanced . this Budget protect work people from high taxis in their payslip and provide an increase in the national minimum wage , which my constituent will absolutely benefit from . it speak volume that the majority of the time spend by Opposition Members have focus on a subsidy that use to exist for private school and now do not because this Government be ensure that we invest in the state sector . will the hon . Lady give way ? no . I can tell those member that when additional money be spend on the state sector , it improve the life chance and opportunity of my constituent . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way . could she identify which subsidy she be talk about ? I be talk about the vat relief that exist for private school . [ interruption . ] yes , it be a subsidy . politic be full of choice , and a Government ' s first responsibility be to ensure that they balance the book . if a government be responsible , they will invest in decent public service and create condition for economic stability . I want to concentrate on that final point for a moment . we have hear remark from Opposition Members on small and medium - sized business ; I say to those member that when I speak to local business in Barking , they say that the economic instability over the past few year be what have create pressure for they . I welcome , in particular , the Government ' s tax announcement on non - dom loophole . the Government change the residential base mean they will increase revenue by almost £ 13 billion . the rate change on capital gain mean we will maintain our position as have the low capital gain tax of any european G7 economy . these measure be a collection of decision that show we be prioritise investment in public service , alongside an absolute commitment from the Government to create economic stability to achieve the future growth that this country deserve . I will speak about the impact of the Government ' s change to the energy profit levy on people and business in my constituency , and on the UK as a whole , in term of the energy security the Government be mean to ensure and the Government ' s ever - more ambitious decarbonisation target , which be be put at risk . the Chancellor ' s decision to increase the EPL rate to 38 % and extend it to 2030 , while also remove investment allowance , demonstrate a fundamental misunderstanding of our energy sector — indeed , the global energy sector — and the community here that depend on it . accord to Aberdeen and Grampian chamber of commerce , 100 , 000 energy - relate job across the UK , but disproportionately in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire , be be put at risk because of the change . the OBR ' s figure project that capital expenditure will fall by 26 % , with oil production down 6 . 3 % and gas production down 9 . 2 % . for business across my constituency , that mean few contract , reduced investment and diminish opportunity . or to put it another way : few job , few prospect and more redundancy . what be incomprehensible about the change to the EPL be that they make no economic sense . study by Offshore Energies UK show that the change will cost the Treasury £ 12 billion in lose tax revenue — £ 12 billion . if the Chancellor be so convinced that she be in a hole , maybe not dig deep would be a good idea . the OEUK put that down to a rapid decline in production due to under - investment . while we be still go to use oil and gas for year to come , the Government be therefore choose to take it from overseas producer where there be low environmental credential and bad employment standard , rather than from the UK where we will be able to increase employment , secure employment , help our tax revenue and secure our economic growth both locally and nationally . labour ' s change in the Budget will see a wholly punitive regime , with the effective tax rate be 78 % on oil and gas company — the high of any comparable off - sea mature basin . what other industry in the UK would be expect to deliver something as fundamental as our heating , lighting or transport fuel — indeed , energy to ensure the NHS can operate and school can run — while also be tax to such an extent that the Government be drive away investment in a sector so crucial to our national security ? what be particularly concern about the EPL be the impact on home - grow energy business . these be not global multinational that be often use as example of the energy giant who make massive profit ; company that can and do buffer the impact of EPL by increase their overseas investment and reduce their investment in the North sea . instead , this policy hit hard the company that have emerge and grow out of north - east Scotland , employ local people , support local supply chain and help our local economy . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . in January 2023 the Conservative Chancellor increase the energy profit levy by 10 % , from 25 % to 35 % . what be the impact of that change on North sea job and the economy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . we must remember that investment allowance have now be reduce and take away . increase the EPL by a further 3 % while decrease investment allowance make the North sea a really difficult place to invest in . Apache have announce that it be set to pull out of the North sea basin . how do the hon . Lady think that announcement relate to the fiscal decision of this Government ? do she think that it be inextricably link to this Government ' s ambition for North sea oil and gas , and their failure to fully understand how the industry work ? the fact that Apache ' s announcement come within a week of the Budget speak for itself when it come to the question of the final straw that break the camel ' s back . as I be say , the energy profit levy have the great impact on our local , home - grow business . it be turn the light off in the very business that we should be support and championing . by remove investment allowance , the Government be force company to scale back their North sea project , thereby increase our reliance on expensive import energy from overseas . north - east Scotland be already lead the charge on renewable energy . we have hydrogen project in development , wind farm off our shore , and expertise that could and should position we as a global leader on clean , renewable energy technology . however , a rush , ill - think - out transition — to which the EPL contribute — will undermine our effort . the skill of our oil and gas sector be precisely what we need in order to deliver a sustainable transition . the company that will be penalise by this levy be the one that we need to invest in green technology . just yesterday I meet developer of float offshore wind farm , and I ask they about the EPL . they hope that one of their project will involve collaboration with an oil and gas field ; the float wind farm will help to decarbonise the rig , and in return , the oil and gas producer will help to fund the cabling back to shore . however , now they fear that the increase and extended EPL will jeopardise the oil and gas company ' s ability and willingness to invest . this Labour Government be turn what be a windfall tax into a permanent feature of our tax system , create long - term uncertainty that will drive investment away from north - east Scotland . the energy profit levy be a blunt instrument , not a balanced strategy . the Government must listen to industry expert , local business , and community like mine in Gordon and Buchan . we need a competitive , open business environment that attract investment and will support our energy transition , while protect job and supply chain and secure our energy supply . the nation ' s energy security depend on it . it be a pleasure to speak while you be in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be also a pleasure to hear the brilliant maiden speech from my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) . we be colleague and partner in crime in the cause of technology . I know that she have a glitter career in front of she , and I look forward to witness it . in view of the instruction from your predecessor in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , I studiously read the Budget briefing from the House of Commons Library , which explain the history of the Finance Bill . broadly , that history commend this country ' s stability and its financial institution — broadly , but with one great blip . let I start by recognise the context of the Bill : the wreckage from which we emerge — the wreckage of the " growth plan " , as the Conservatives call it under their Prime Minister Liz Truss . the briefing , for which I thank the Library ' s staff , tell we that not set out the prospective flow of a Finance Bill from that be a total aberration . from the wreckage , however , have come the return of stability . in fairness , I recognise that at the time , the present shadow Chancellor — the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) — call the party leader out . he say that she be " fly blind " , and other be follow she blindly . it seem that blind flight be contagious on the Opposition Benches today . the right hon . Gentleman talk about oppose , about be the party of " no " rather than the party of government . he do not tell we how he would fund public service ; he do not tell we what taxis he would raise if he oppose all of ours . I be conscious that he also once call the pension triple lock " unsustainable " . this be not someone to be trust with government or with opposition . I note that the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) have just leave the Chamber , have say that he be not interested in choose . he stand for the 100 % . as my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) say , to govern be to choose . to avoid choice be to play the fantasy politic of opposition , and I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman have find the warm Benches opposite . the hon . Gentleman say that the Tories have no plan for public service . I accept that the Labour Government do have a plan , but it be completely unbelievable , so where do that leave we ? may I recognise , with warm comfort , the traditional place of the scottish nationalist as total enabler of conservative government ? the hon . Gentleman talk about fiscal credibility . may I point out the absolute wreckage of the Scottish Government , who have waste almost half a billion pound of offshore wind proceed on day - to - day spending because of their fiscal mismanagement ? if he be take tutorial alongside the conservative party , may I ask he to invite his colleague in Scotland to they ? those will serve they very efficiently . from my experience of the City of London , and of invest in this country and abroad , the broad lesson I have learn be that finance be always contingent , but the fundamental matter . for that reason , the Bill have to be see in the context of what it enable . where the Conservatives treat the work people of this country as their cash machine , we be protect payslip . where they do not support healthcare in this country and wreck the waiting list system , as I experience grow up in this country , we be support the NHS . where they slash public investment and take cowardly decision across their Finance Bills , we be invest in our future . I want to mention a proposal in the Bill that be close to my heart : the relief on draught duty , which will affect the Lamb and Flag in Wick , the Three Golden Cups in Southerndown and , close to my heart , Finnegans on Barry Island . when the " Gavin and Stacey " Christmas special be show , I will make sure to make the most of the draught duty relief — particularly at Finnegans , but across the Vale of Glamorgan . let I return to the choice at the heart of this Bill . as the Treasury ' s distributional analysis show , the overall context of what we have do , both in the Bill and more broadly , be that 90 % of household in this country will be well off . that be the amazing distributional context , after 14 year of what we experience under the conservative party . what a daffodil - laden Budget we have ! the Bill offer the big ever budget settlement for Wales ; it mean £ 1 . 7 billion for Welsh public service . some 70 , 000 minimum - wage worker in Wales will be well off . there be £ 100 million for our coal and steel community , and a timely £ 25 million of support for coal tip . for the daffodil - laden Budget and the Bill that undergird it , I be very grateful to the Chancellor . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate as a member of the Treasury Committee . after suffer the high fall in living standard since record begin , the United Kingdom desperately need economic growth , yet the OBR forecast that the policy in the Government ' s Finance Bill and Budget will have no impact on growth over the next five year . the recessionary impact of the tax rise , combine with a focus on current spending that crowd out the private sector , largely offset the fiscal stimulus of one of the large fiscal event in recent decade , and of borrow an extra £ 32 billion a year . there be potential upside to the growth forecast in the Budget , mainly from the impact of planning reform , but this Budget and Finance Bill be a miss opportunity for growth . that matter , because there be chronic structural problem in the british economy that we must address . indeed , give that public sector net debt be now approach 100 % of gdp , the Government ' s ability to borrow to invest in the future , or to cope with an unforeseen shock , be severely constrain . many Labour Members have speak about the importance of public investment , which I agree with , so I would like to address the follow point . since the 2008 financial crash , the UK economy have be hamper by productivity growth collapse to 0 . 6 % per year — the second bad in the G7 . unless and until we solve the productivity crisis , the UK will not escape its downward economic spiral of high taxis , an age population , ever crumble public service and ever high debt . a key cause of that be chronically low public and private investment . in 24 of the last 30 year , the UK have have the low total investment of any G7 economy , yet as the OBR testify , under the Budget , public investment will remain flat as a share of gdp , so the Budget be unlikely to help solve the productivity crisis . this be why the OBR be forecast that for every £ 1 borrow by the Government , the economy will grow by only 60p next year , and that these effect will reverse in five year . the hon . Gentleman know that I hold he in high regard , but I be slightly perplexed because he welcome this Government ' s investment in public service , the NHS and so forth , yet his colleague oppose many of the revenue raiser in this Finance Bill — and perhaps he do , too . can he help I square that circle ? as the hon . Member will know , the liberal Democrats have alternative measure for raise those revenue , but my fundamental point be that , yes , I welcome public investment , but it be flat in the Budget ; it be not enough , in my view , and furthermore , it be not focus on the right area . by contrast , economist have find that optimal form of public investment be able to raise gdp by £ 1 . 50 for every £ 1 invest . the good public investment for raise economic growth be investment in intangible capital such as knowledge , research and development , patent and license . that can bring great gain in productivity because knowledge can build on exist knowledge , and it can crowd in private investment , as it lower the financial risk of participation for private investor . indeed , the most effective form of R & D be target on a specific goal . for example , the Kennedy Administration in the ' 60 have stunning success in increase US productivity and growth by have the very specific goal of the moon landing . I be excited to see that R & D to solve target problem be in the Budget , on page 76 , but then I see that of the £ 70 billion in spending in the Budget , only £ 25 million will be spend on the good type of r & D to drive economic growth . that be about double the budget of my local district council . that be not really appropriate for the world ' s sixth - large economy . we stand on the cusp of a new industrial revolution in artificial intelligence , and this country have just one chance to gain the first mover advantage , and to harvest the productivity gain and growth that could result . indeed , combine with innovation in the life science and climate technology , which be mention in the Budget , this could be our route out of this downward economic spiral , yet in the 164 - page Budget , the word " artificial intelligence " appear once . I call on the Government to redouble their effort on public investment and R & D , because I would like to live in a country that have the resource that it need to provide opportunity for our citizen , and this Budget be a miss opportunity to do that . my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) have leave the Chamber , but I praise she for her maiden speech . I be pleased to speak on this Finance Bill . it underpin the first Labour Budget in 14 year . it also raise the revenue that this country need in order to recover , rebuild and renew . I will not spend age talk about the Conservatives and the mess they have make , but — cue groan from Conservative Members — we all know about the £ 22 billion black hole , the mini - Budget and their reprehensible record on public finance . however , I want to take a moment to praise the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , because I genuinely enjoy his astronomy reference . it be just a shame that he be not quite on planet Earth when it come to recognise that we need to not only invest in public service but pay for they — the vehicle for that be this very Finance Bill . even while this government be tackle the Tories ' toxic inheritance , we be , through this Finance Bill , protect payslip , when it come to income tax and employee national insurance . let I get on to other key measure in the Bill that I welcome . measure on tobacco duty , non - dom tax status and the oil and gas windfall mean that public service in my constituency of York Outer will be all the well off . let I start by talk about the NHS . this week , I meet Yorkshire Cancer Research to talk about the vital work that it do . as we discuss on Second reading of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill yesterday , the tobacco duty increase will act as a deterrent to smoking , and it will save life . take together , these measure be important to change habit , but the tobacco duty increase will also raise extra cash to fund our NHS . primary care service such as the York Medical Group , which I recently visit , and York hospital will undoubtedly welcome extra investment . I certainly welcome it , as a parent who recently have to wait many hour in York A & E with a scream toddler after a trap finger . it be vital that we get the NHS back up and run for constituent like mine . one constituent have be wait seven year for surgery . let that sink in : it be half the time that the Tories be in power . I be clear that this Bill raise the revenue to put the NHS on a much surer footing . the hon . Gentleman be a conscientious Member of Parliament , and I understand what he be say , but do he accept that , in the word of a former labour leader , we invest in public service with the proceed of growth ? when he stand for re - election , will he tell his constituent that he advocate for a Budget to cut growth in his country ? that be slightly laughable , if I may say so as an affable Yorkshireman . thing like the national planning policy framework will drive growth , and some of these measure be not include in the OBR blue book . this pro - growth government be do so much for growth , so I find the hon . Gentleman ' s question slightly perplexing . the Bill will abolish the non - dom tax loophole and replace it with a residence - base regime . I have a look , and this change will raise £ 12 . 7 billion . just last week , the Transport Secretary kindly visit I and the Mayor of York and North Yorkshire to announce £ 12 . 7 million of funding for our bus , which will transform our region . my quick math show that close the non - dom tax loophole will pay 1 , 000 time more than that sum , which be the difference this Bill will make . I will soon be have my office Christmas do . I be sure there be a joke to be make about liquid asset , but I recently visit Elvington brewery , and this Bill rightly cut alcohol duty on draught product . that be wonderful news for our Yorkshire pub . I need to declare an interest for myself and my hard - work team , because these measure mean that we be look forward to enjoy a cheap pint of the wonderfully name Fairytale of Brew York , which will be launch by Brew York over the festive period . conservative Members back investment in our public service , but they do not support the revenue raise by this Bill . perhaps they have be have too many fairytale economic pint . the vat increase on private school fee will bring in £ 1 . 7 billion a year , which will go directly to school like those in York Outer . the Budget announce a £ 1 billion uplift for SEN provision and a £ 2 . 3 billion increase in the school budget , which will make a huge difference to place like Applefields school and Manor Church of England academy . I have also visit Askham Bryan college , a fantastic agricultural college in York Outer . its great student , who be study t - level , will benefit from £ 300 million of extra funding for college , directly stem from this Finance Bill . while make some proportionate tax rise in the Budget , we have maintain our position of have the low capital gain tax in Europe . we have strike the right balance , because we will have extra cash for our school , and it be a real lifeline . for all the Conservatives ' obfuscation , we have actually keep so many of our manifesto promise , one of which be to deliver a windfall tax on oil and gas company — a policy so good that the Conservatives steal it when they be in government . the additional revenue raise by the EPL will help we to set up GB Energy , which will deliver for the british people by deliver the green job of the future . may I briefly refer to the first Bill I ever speak on in this House , which be now the Budget Responsibility Act 2024 ? I say the Bill be important because it be " the only way we can grow those public service with a stable economy . " — [ Official Report , 30 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 1253 . ] that be as true now as it be back then — [ interruption . ] I hear grumble from the Opposition Benches . conservative Members do not seem to think that economic stability matter when it come to invest in public service ; they certainly know quite a lot about economic instability . this government have be task with rip out the rot follow 14 year of chaos . the Bill help to fix the foundation by provide the revenue to restore public service in York Outer and beyond . we be debate the Finance Bill follow an election . in usual time , such a Bill would enact what be say in the win party ' s manifesto , but not this time . on the electoral trail , all the Labour Members who be now minister repeat what be say in the labour manifesto time and again : their plan be " fully cost " and " fully fund " . they repeatedly say that they have no plan to raise taxis beyond vat on private school or to increase public borrowing . the manifesto say , in bald term , that " we will not increase National Insurance " . there be no qualification to that — it be there in black and white . it be extraordinary that we be debate a Finance Bill that have no correlation to the manifesto that it come after . the electorate be profoundly mislead . the reality be that the Labour party be increase spending by more than £ 70 billion . Labour member use the argument of their fantasy black hole , which have be thoroughly debunk by the independent Government body , the Office for Budget Responsibility , the independent IFS and the Financial Times . no one believe Labour , because that black hole be not there . it be not a black hole ; it be more like a red herring . the reason for that red herring be that Labour need it as the excuse to do what it always intend to do — put up taxis and increase spending on public worker . why do it do that ? because Labour Members — all of they — know that if they have be honest with the electorate and tell they that Labour be go to be a tax and spend party , no one would have vote for they . even then , only 34 % of the public do . it be a big con on the electorate . that be why we have a petition live on the Government website that say : " I believe the current Labour Government have go back on the promise they lay out in the lead up to the last election . " as of this afternoon , 2 . 75 million people have sign that petition because they feel mislead by this Government . the Budget provide £ 2 . 6 billion for education , £ 1 billion for SEND , £ 22 billion for the NHS and several billion more for thing like council . would the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent in Broadland and Fakenham welcome the contribution of those fund to the NHS , school and council , or would he not like that investment to go into his constituency ? there be a number of point in the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . first , how much money should be spend ? secondly , what should it be spend on ? and thirdly , where should we get it from ? I will go straight to the heart of where we can get the money from : if we return public service productivity back to 2019 level , there be ten of billion of pound to be save ; if we return the size of the civil service to the 2019 level , before the big covid expansion , there be ten of billion of pound to be save ; and if we return welfare spending on disability back to pre - covid level , which my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) be in process of do before the general election , there be ten of billion of pound to be save . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? in a moment . if we add that all up , there would be £ 50 billion that could be spend on the frontline . however , the problem with the Labour party be that it take money and spend it on inflation - bust wage rise for its union paymaster , but not on increase and improve the outcome for the people who use service . that be the big difference between the Conservative party and the Labour party . the focus of our spending be not the people provide the service ; we be for the people who use those service — the people of this country . my hon . friend be make a typically eloquent and excellent speech . I challenge a number of Labour Members to outline that public service can be invest in if , in addition to some of the tax - raise mechanism they have choose , we have economic growth . will my hon . friend outline how much growth have be cut by under the Government ' s proposal compare with ours ? be I correct in think it be 0 . 7 % over the Parliament ? my hon . friend be entirely correct : over the course of the forecast period , the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that growth will be cut by 0 . 7 % . it be bad than that , however , because we also have an increase in taxis on business of £ 25 billion through the national insurance contribution , which the OBR tell we will be pay for overwhelmingly by reduce pay for worker , amount to £ 7 . 5 billion . it also forecast that more than 50 , 000 full time - equivalent job will be lose as a result of the policy that Labour member plan to vote for . will the hon . member give way ? I will on that point . the hon . Member keep talk about his Government have be in the process of make a mark on productivity . have leave we with the bad productivity slowdown in 250 year , will he tell we how long the process would have take ? the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention be not on the point that he rise for , but there be one thing that he do not mention , and that be the covid impact . [ interruption . ] hon . member can laugh about it , but we spend £ 400 billion support the economy and the people of this country in a once - in - a - century impact on our economy . if my hon . friend will forgive I , will he give way ? yes , I will . that be extraordinary . do he agree with I that there seem to be a collective amnesia among colleague on the Labour Benches ? if we have take their advice during covid , when we be make reasonable decision , not only would we have see the long lockdown that the now Prime Minister be call for , but more economic damage , which they now deny ever happen in the first place . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and there be a point worth make here . since covid , the private sector have improve productivity by about 6 % . productivity in the public sector have yet to improve , although before the general election it be start to do that . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . I want to make some progress because I have be quite generous in give way . the OBR say that more than 50 , 000 job will be actively lose as a direct result of the decision member on the Labour Benches be about to take . I think that be an underestimate . I have be talk to business in my constituency of Broadland and Fakenham over the past few week and , as a former entrepreneur , I have be take aback by quite how badly the tax and spend decision of the Labour party have go down with my small and medium - sized employer . their account to I suggest that those choice be affect their decision on employment , and particularly on employ young people . one employer say to I just two week ago that 18 - year - old be hard to employ than , say , 25 or 26 - year - old because overall more of they will fail in their job as they get use to the work environment . employ 18 - year - old use to be worthwhile because the national minimum wage be low and national insurance contribution do not have to be pay on the first £ 9 , 200 of their employment . that advantage have be remove and it be now disproportionately more expensive to employ an 18 - year - old than old member of staff . that be a real - life case , where the employer tell I they will stop employ young people in their business . be that really what Labour Members want to achieve ? that be what be happen already . I be not quite clear what the hon . Gentleman be say . be he advise business in his constituency not to employ 18 - year - old , or be he tell 18 - year - old in his constituency that he want they to be pay less ? I be not tell anyone anything ; I be report what business be tell I . as a direct consequence of the action of the member on the Labour Benches , young people be not be employ who otherwise would have be . the OBR say that will lead to more than 50 , 000 job be lose . time will tell , but I think that be an underestimate . we have a reduction in recruitment , a reduction in the employment of young staff , a reduction in investment and , as a result , we will have a reduction in growth over the course of the forecast period . but bad than that , we will have a reduction in living standard . this cost of living crisis , which have now be cause by Labour , will reduce living standard by 1 . 25 % by 2029 . that reduction be a direct result of the Budget , so if Labour Members vote for this Bill , they will be vote for increase the cost of live crisis by 1 . 25 % . none the less , we have see some increase : debt cost be increase ; inflation be increase , which will exacerbate the cost of living crisis ; and mortgage cost be increase . you talk about increase inflation , yet we see record level of inflation — 11 % — under the Conservative Government , one third of which be cause by our exposure to gas shock . do he agree with this Labour Government that we need to invest in clean energy , so that we be no long leave vulnerable to foreign dictator and their control of fossil fuel market ? order . before the hon . member answer that intervention , I remind member not to use the word " you " . moreover , this be a debate on the second reading of the Finance Bill , so can we please make comment , intervention and speech relevant to the Finance Bill ? I be grateful for that intervention . inflation 11 % be a direct consequence of the russian invasion of Ukraine , as everyone know , but what be important be that the Conservative Government take the difficult decision to get it down to a target of 2 % . it be already creep up under Labour , and it will be high than it otherwise would have be as a direct consequence of these measure . do not trust my word for that ; that come directly from the OBR . again , the OBR tell we that mortgage rise will occur directly because of the decision of Government Members . union activity will be up , with the consequential impact on productivity and efficiency of our private sector . the size of the state will go up and , shamefully , the tax take will be the high since record begin . I will not support this Finance Bill , or its second reading , so Labour Members will have to take the consequence of their own decision . may I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) on her excellent maiden speech ? as a fellow technologist , she have do so much to make sure that woman in particular be part of the technology sector . that be vital as we work to get more woman involve in the technology sector and in technology policy . last week , a constituent who have vote Labour at the election come to see I . she be an elderly woman and she ask I this very simple question : what make this a Labour Budget ? as a corollary of that , she say , " if I be to vote now , why should I vote labour to make sure that we have another Budget like the one you have just pass ? " and I have a particular answer for she . we talk about some big thing . we talk about the big choice that be in the Budget underpin by this Finance Bill . we talk about , for example , the choice to make hard decision in order to fund our NHS properly , to make sure that we shift from a national health service to a neighbourhood health service , so that , in my constituency we can ensure that there be proper health provision in town like Hindley Green and Orrell , which over the past 14 year , have lose all their primary care provision . she think that be compelling . I then say that another of the big choice that we make in the Budget , which this Finance Bill underpin , be to invest , instead of accept the slow decline that the Conservative Members have preside over for 14 year . we then discuss some of the less well cover measure that this Finance Bill support , and it be those that I wish to talk about today . in these measure , we can see the value that make the Budget , and this Finance Bill , a Labour Budget : care , respect , and pride in our community . these be the measure that answer her question : what be it that make the Budget that this Finance Bill pay for a Labour Budget ? let I talk about a few of the small thing that will benefit my constituent and work people right across the country . most importantly for those I represent , we will end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme . just yesterday , my constituent remember the Springs colliery disaster in Hindley . ten of thousand of people who use to live in the constituency of Ince , which precede my own , come together in what be a powerful and emotional moment for they . by end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme , the Chancellor ensure that as we build the next generation of energy , reduce bill and ensure that foreign dictator no long have a hold over energy production in this nation , we also remember the last generation of energy production : the worker who power our industrial revolution and build this nation ' s wealth . do my hon . friend agree that the proceed from the Finance Bill will allow we not just to invest in the future but to recognise our heritage , compensate mineworker , and in particular support coal tip in Wales ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend . to be specific about the benefit that will accrue , there be 500 family in my constituency who for decade have watch the Government take out of their pension scheme and refuse to rectify the ongoing justice . we all know what Conservative member think of miner . by ensure that they get a 32 % increase in their pension we be not only put money directly into the pocket of the work people who build this nation but signal our respect for an industry and profession that make this country ' s wealth . the second small , subtler , sometimes miss thing that demonstrate the value that lie behind the measure that the Finance Bill will pay for be the £ 44 million funding increase for kinship and foster carer . my council in Wigan be a pioneer in the provision of adult social care and care for child . it have blaze the way in ensure that it work with third sector organisation and maintain the budget to fund its own care provision publicly . now it be back by a Government who care about what carer do . as the hon . member for South Derbyshire have argue , the flipside of a high - productivity and high - technology economy be care . care be the most human thing that we will do more and more of as we build a high - tech and high - productivity economy . the Government ' s £ 44 million increase will ensure that caring be properly fund in this country . I thank my hon . friend for mention carer . I be also really pleased to see in the Budget an increase in the carer ' s allowance eligibility limit to £ 196 a week , which will allow many carer to work long and earn more money before their allowance be withdraw . do he welcome that commitment , which show the real commitment of the Labour Government to support carer ? not only do I agree with my hon . friend ' s point about the carer ' s allowance , which will benefit 8 , 000 people in my region of the north - west , the increase demonstrate a wide point about respect those who provide care in our society and economy . for too long , we have think the profession to be unskille , and have undervalue it as a path of work . in several of the measure that the Finance Bill will pay for , the Government have demonstrate that caring be a vital part of the economy that we wish to build . I have say this before , and will say it again : high productivity and more technology mean more care . we must respect and value that most human of profession if we be to build an economy in which we all want to live in the future . every Thursday during the pandemic , we clap , cheer and make noise to signal to our nhs carer that we care about they . it be not just about noise ; it be about the promise of a well future on the other side of the pandemic , which be where we be now . do my hon . friend agree that one of the most important thing that this Labour Government have do be give a much - deserve pay rise to our teacher and NHS staff ? under the Conservatives , 1 . 5 million NHS appointment be cancel and 25 million teaching day be lose . because of conservative policy , the NHS be force to spend £ 9 . 3 billion on temporary staffing , and we lose school day that cost the economy £ 900 million . conservative Members ask how much our public sector worker be pay , and how much they be worth . do my hon . friend agree that they be worth every single penny that they will be pay under this Labour Government ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend that those who keep this nation go , who keep teach our child and who keep look after those who be sick and die deserve every penny of the pay rise that this Government award they . since the subject of the pandemic have come up , I would add that the moral credibility of Conservative Members to ever use the sacrifice that our nation make during the covid pandemic as a rebuttal to anything that this government do be lose the moment the Prime Minister tell the nation to stay at home while he invite his colleague to a booze - up in No . 10 Downing Street . my hon . friend mention partygate , but it go far beyond that . we have to remember that the dodgy contract that go to mate and donor bring our country into utter disrepute . in this Finance Bill debate , do he recognise the financial impact of that on the country ? order . I once again remind member that intervention should be on what be in front of we : the Second reading of the Finance Bill . I absolutely take that point , but I will remind Conservative Members of the simple argument I be make in case they have lose the thread of it . I be go through the measure in the Budget that may have be lose by medium scrutiny of some of the big measure . my question be : how would they pay for those measure ? if they support they , they need to answer that question pose by the Bill today . as the Minister say early , the first word in Labour ' s manifesto be about restore economic stability . if conservative member support some of the measure I be describe , they must themselves answer the question of how they would pay for they . I will mention three more measure before I close . these measure specifically benefit the region that I be proud to represent in the north - west , and they will drive growth not just here in London and the south - east , but right across the country , include in Wigan and the town across Makerfield . the first measure be the electrification of the Wigan to Bolton line , which will mean that constituent in Hindley will benefit from more reliable train service that do not get cancel , as they have repeatedly be over the past two week due to the weather . the second measure be an increase in the household support fund of £ 66 million in the north - west . that will specifically help those just above the pension credit threshold who none the less need support this winter . the third and final measure be the integrate settlement with our trailblaze Labour Mayor Andy Burnham in Greater Manchester , mean that we can cap bus fare at £ 2 . it also mean that we will trailblaze the Live Well centre , which work people will benefit from and those out of work will be provide with the holistic support they need to get back into work . those be the measure that this Finance Bill support . the question for Conservative Members be : will they support the measure that pay for those provision ? if they will not , they will continue to be the party that do not restore economic stability , that crash the economy and that send mortgage rate spiral . the first and most important thing this Labour Government have do and will always do be protect the economic stability of this nation . a person ' s character be most on display in watch what they do when nobody else be look . I can not remember who say that — either a former Prime Minister or a baseball coach in the United States . a Government ' s character be often in the thing that get less attention , that demonstrate whose side that Government be on . in the provision , the Government have demonstrate that they be on the side of miner , carer , commuter and worker in Makerfield , Greater Manchester and the north - west . what this Finance Bill show I be that this be a Government who will tear down any barrier that get in the way of we deliver for work people in the United Kingdom . this Finance Bill should be a chance to begin the vital work of transform our economy to make it fair , to restore public service , and to make our economy greener by invest in urgent climate and nature action . as such , I welcome the focus on public investment . however , overall , the Green party ' s view be that the Bill lack vision for our future and do not deliver the ambitious and hopeful change that people vote for in July . I would argue that that be because it seek to answer the wrong question . the Bill should not be design to focus purely on growth for growth ' s sake , but should instead focus on more modern and rounded way of measure economic success that deliver wellbee , a liveable future , well standard of living and good - quality job . when deliver the Budget , the Chancellor refer to growth 32 time , but she do not mention climate or nature once . when the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s analysis warn that current spending plan will see inequality and poverty increase while average disposable income fall , the Government ' s plan clearly be not go to deliver a fairer future for we all . the Finance Bill be an opportunity to set thing on the right track , because that be possible with the right choice . I be elect advocate specifically for a transformative wealth tax — for those with the broad shoulder to bear the great financial responsibility for transform our economy . therefore , I very much hope that this Finance Bill would seek to tax all kind of wealth much more ambitiously to fund our future . do the hon . Gentleman have a model of a wealth tax from another country that have be successful in raise the amount of money he claim it would have raise ? I thank the hon . member for that question — I always enjoy her contribution . later in my speech I will talk about a specific model that I would propose , one that I put forward in the general election and that have the support of a number of researcher and academic . there be lot of model out there , include those that look at example from other country . I be glad that the Government be take step to close the unfairness gap in the tax system , whereby income from work be tax at a high level than income from wealth or asset . reform capital gain tax have be a major policy priority for the Greens for some time ; it be long overdue , and I commend the Chancellor for grasp that particular nettle . however , the Finance Bill could and should go even far , focus on the very wealthy in society . over the past 10 year , the UK have become an increasingly unequal country . between 2020 and 2022 alone , billionaire wealth in the UK increase by almost £ 150 billion . the five rich family in the UK be wealthy than the bottom 20 % of the entire population . that last stat can be replace with a more recent one : accord to the Equality Trust , the UK ' s five rich family now own more wealth than the bottom 13 million do . both be startling fact . to answer the question pose by the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , a wealth tax of 1 % annually on asset above £ 10 million , and of 2 % on asset above £ 1 billion , would demonstrate that this Government be serious about fairness . figure that be back up by researcher and academic suggest that such a wealth tax could raise ten of billion during this Parliament — much big than a number of the figure quote by other member today . it would show that the Government be serious about fairness , about transform the economy and about invest for a well future . if the hon . member be so concerned about inequality and poverty in this country , why do he refuse to support the building of pylon , thereby add about £ 4 billion to the cost of increase electricity production in this country ? those cost will , above all , go on to the bill of work people . be that not a measure to reduce inequality and poverty in this country that the hon . Member would support ? if the hon . Gentleman be aware of my campaign background , he will know that I have be one of the strong advocate for accelerate to move to renewable energy for decade , with all the benefit that bring for reduce bill . if he hear the Westminster Hall debate yesterday , he will know that we need to combine speed on renewable with bring community with we and assess all the option available , and we have cross - party support in argue for that . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? perhaps the right hon . Gentleman would let I make a little more progress first , please . a wealth tax would go a long way towards fund the public service that our economy rely on and to deliver nature and climate - friendly policy that will benefit we all . for example , by maintain the winter fuel allowance for pensioner , while invest in the roll - out of the street - by - street insulation programme , we could bring down household bill and carbon emission and at the same time support the most vulnerable household with energy bill over the winter month , prevent hundred of avoidable death . there be also nature - base solution that would help to protect against the flooding chaos and misery cause , for example , by Storm Bert recently . preparedness or adaptation be often neglect when it come to climate action , yet this week have demonstrate what a difference it can make . a wealth tax could see charity and not - for - profit health and social care provider , for example , exempt from the plan increase in national insurance contribution for employer , in recognition of the significant work they do in our community and the significant further strain that this plan change will put they under . as Community Action Suffolk have warn , this financial challenge may be a step too far for some organisation that " deliver vital service keep Suffolk resident safe and well " , and reduce pressure on other public sector system , include the NHS . the Government have take , or have seek to take , some step towards tax wealth in address the real problem of very wealthy people invest in farmland to avoid pay inheritance tax . however , the way in which they have go about do so be result in huge problem . it be clumsy because it be impact on small farm that may , on paper , have asset worth several million , but if the farmer be not actually earn any income , or very little , they never actually see the benefit of that . the Exchequer Secretary be back in the Chamber , and I would ask he whether , in consider the agricultural property relief — I know it be plan for a further year ' s Budget , so there be time for the Government to look at this — he will look at the work of tax analyst Dan Neidle . Dan Neidle have highlight that the Government ' s own intention of rightly clamp down on tax avoidance will not be meet under the current plan , which will impact far more small , ordinary farm than the Government have admit . his proposal include an alternative suggestion for meet the Government ' s state aim of clamp down on tax avoidance , not affect ordinary farmer . too often we find that the Greens talk a good game , but when it come to make decision , whether on pylon or inheritance tax , they begin to get a little bit nervous , so I would be interested to know the hon . Gentleman ' s view . while he may have concern about the threshold that have be set for inheritance tax for farm , where do he think it should be set ? first , I have welcome the measure in this Budget on non - dom and capital gain tax , and I have argue for the Government to go much far and be much bold with a genuine wealth tax on the very rich . I be very happy to set out the measure I want , which be bold than the Government ' s , to raise capital . on farm , as I say , I would urge the hon . Member and the Minister to look at the work of people such as Dan Neidle , which suggest way in which the Government could well achieve their own stated aim of rightly prevent people who often have no interest in farming from invest in farmland in order to avoid inheritance tax . I speak to many farmer last week , as I be sure do Members across the Chamber , and those with ordinary farm in my constituency tell I that typical Suffolk farm of 320 acre may be worth £ 3 million to £ 5 million on paper , but if they be always in the family — if they be never sell and those farmer be earn very little income — they be not realise the benefit of that . the farmer I speak to be extremely distressed about how much pressure they be under for generate very little income , with all the work they do and want to do for our natural environment . we need to look at the detail of what be be propose , while welcome the main aim of clamp down on tax avoidance that the Government be set out . I make these point conscious that the Government choose to table an income tax charge motion on Budget day , thereby restrict scope for amendment to the Bill today . I wish to put on record my disappointment at that decision , because an " amendment of the law " motion would have demonstrate a commitment to a much broad debate , great scrutiny , and a healthy willingness to engage with alterative view . I expect well on that , as I know do my constituent . although I will seek to amend the Bill to take account of the compelling case for a wealth tax , the scope for do so have be deliberately and unnecessarily constrain by the Government in what Ruth Fox of the Hansard Society call a decision to prioritise " ministerial control and convenience over robust parliamentary scrutiny . " before conclude my remark , I wish to mention one other aspect of the Bill that relate to the urgent climate action we need to take . that must be about scale up renewable , but it be also about the transition away from fossil fuel . hide in the Bill and the Budget be the Government ' s intension to subsidise carbon capture and storage — a fig leaf for new fossil fuel project — and fail to end the obscene subsidy , include tax relief , that be hand out to the oil and gas sector . I hope to pick that up far , and for it to get more scrutiny as the Bill progress . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be about to finish . in conclusion , Green mp will vote for the Bill on the basis that we welcome a number of improvement and investment . we be constructive in support improvement that move in the right direction and the investment that have start in the NHS , and I want to see that commit to and expand for the NHS and social care in further year . we look forward to further debate about how that can be strengthen to deliver a coherent vision of a greener , fair future for all . I wish first to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) for her fantastic maiden speech . know that I have the graveyard spot — or , as we call it in this place , the " Jim Shannon spot " — I take a moment to pop to the Tea Room to have a cup of tea , and I visit southderbyshire . co . uk . I own a dog name after a previous Labour Prime Minister , and I be look forward to take he to South Derbyshire — which one ? I don ' t really want to give away my dog ' s name — I don ' t know why . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak in support of the Bill . this be not just another piece of legislation ; it be a crucial step towards boost growth in some of our most dynamic industry , from the creative sector to financial service . it be aim at repair our public finance and bring much - need economic and fiscal stability , and it consider every person from every walk of life to create a fairer future for everyone . last week the Chancellor outline the Government ' s plan for growth , focus on high - growth sector that will drive our economy forward . the Bill be a key part of that vision , introduce important tax change to support the UK ' s creative industry , speed up our shift to clean energy and enhance our financial market . for too long the burden of taxation have fall disproportionately on work people . the Bill address that imbalance — it find that balance and the fairest way to do it . by choose not to extend the freeze on income tax and national insurance threshold , the Government be ensure that personal tax threshold will rise with inflation from April 2028 . that protect hard - work family from what I would consider stealth tax increase . the Bill also deliver on the promise to maintain the fuel duty freeze and a temporary 5p cut . I know that be welcome for resident and motorist in Harlow , as they have suffer for many year with the appalling state of the road . we all know about the dread pothole , and the Government be do what they can on that as well . I will not go on too much about the removal of the vat exemption on private school , because I spend a lot of time talk about that on Monday . however , I be delighted that it will generate additional revenue to invest in our public service , include our school . a number of school in Harlow have suffer with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , and one school — Sir Frederick Gibberd college — be have to be completely rebuild because of the previous Government ' s failing . this Finance Bill be more than just a collection of tax adjustment ; it be a forward - look plan that lay the foundation for a resilient economy . it reflect the Government ' s commitment to support key industry that be vital to our nation , invest in sector that promise sustainable growth , and ensure that the UK remain at the forefront of global innovation . it create a fair and balanced future for all . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to respond to the debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . it have be a good debate , with more than 20 member contribute , but I be a little surprised that we do not hear more from Labour Members want to defend their first Budget for 14 year . some have now appear miraculously in the Chamber , but they be not here for the rest of the debate . let I start with the maiden speech from the hon . member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) . I join other in congratulate she on an excellent maiden speech . I be interested to hear about her tech background and the " Samantha spot " map . she mention the influence of her daughter . family be important in overcome the instant loathing that some people can take to mps , which she talk about . in my experience , it be not as bad as some might fear . [ interruption . ] that be just I . you ' re special . thank you . we all appreciate the kind word from the hon . member for South Derbyshire about Heather Wheeler ' s work . I be sure that the hon . Lady will continue that manufacturing event with Rolls - Royce and the other world - class business in her constituency . I know from personal experience that she will enjoy take part in the armed force parliamentary scheme with the RAF . there be a familiar theme in the speech of other Government Members , which the whip will have be pleased to hear , with lot about fix the foundation and black hole , although the hon . member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) — I can not see he at the moment — do concede that it be not a perfect budget . perhaps he have be take away by the whip to reflect . I turn to Opposition Members ’ speech . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) , who speak powerfully about the impact of the Bill and the damaging impact of the Budget on high street , hospitality and family firm in her constituency . my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , in a masterly contribution , take we back in his time machine to the time when cast - iron promise be make . he focus on what be happen in reality and the importance of enterprise . he also highlight that economic shock may come , as they have do in the last few year , for example through covid and energy price , and that the Chancellor may have already box herself in . my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) display his considerable knowledge as a former Education Secretary . he talk about care for 100 % of pupil , and about the damaging impact that the education tax will have . there will be serious consequence for small school , religious school and parent and pupil involve with they . that theme be also draw on by my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) , who talk about his constituent and put we in the footstep of the pupil who will be affect , as well as their parent . my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) return to her consistent theme of the real - world consequence for energy firm of the energy profit tax , the lose revenue , and the self - defeat nature of that measure . finally , my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) focus on young people ' s employment prospect , which will take a hit as a result of the Bill . there be two very different take in the debate . unlike some , I would not claim to be an economist , but the OBR be full of they , and its verdict on the Budget and the Finance Bill be clear : they mean low growth , high inflation and high borrowing . as the Shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , put it , the british people put their trust in Labour to stay true to its promise . what do they get in response ? a Finance Bill that be stuff full of tax increase and break trust with the british people . it have £ 40 billion of annual tax rise . it be the big tax - raise Budget in modern history , and it be work family and business who will pay the price . as we hear , the Government have say that their priority be growth . we will not let they forget that they inherit an economy grow at the fast rate in the G7 . follow the Budget , the OBR have downgrade its growth forecast for the period by 0 . 7 % . inflation , which go up to 2 . 3 % last week , be now expect to be high in every year of the forecast period . the tax burden will increase to the high level since record begin . borrowing will increase by an additional £ 140 billion over the Parliament . it be little wonder that business confidence be plummet . the Labour party have consistently talk our economy down . the consequence be clear . the late purchasing manager ' s index output datum show that private sector activity have shrink for the first time in more than a year . business be rightly blame the Chancellor and this anti - aspiration , anti - enterprise government . let I turn to some of the part of this broken promise Budget that be cover in the debate . first , the Bill deliberately undermine incentive for investor , entrepreneur and people willing to take a risk and back enterprise . it hike the main and low rate of capital gain tax . the Treasury state that this measure alone will hit over a quarter of a million people , who will pay more tax as a result . it put up tax rate on investor relief . it be little wonder that expert have warn that this Government risk stymie the very investment that they seek to stimulate . secondly , the Bill continue the fundamentalism of the Government ' s energy policy , which fail to put our energy security first . it will increase the energy profit levy to 38 % , bring the headline rate on oil and gas activity to 78 % . the Exchequer Secretary could not name a country that have a high rate . I be sure that Denis Healey would approve . it extend the rate by a year and remove investment allowance . on the real - world consequence , Offshore Energies UK have say that the hike will choke off investment and put 35 , 000 job at risk . we should be maximise our home - grow energy , not undermine domestic production and rely on import that have a high carbon footprint . have highlight the Government ' s broken promise , I turn to a single promise that they be actually keep , unfortunately — the education tax . for some who do not seem to understand , the Labour party be not end a relief , but bring in a new tax . it be a vindictive tax , be impose partway through the academic year , deliberately design to disrupt the education of thousand of child . put vat on independent school will particularly hurt parent on modest income who choose to save and send their child to a school that they think be good for they . More than 100 , 000 child with special need who be without an education , health and care plan , and be in independent school , will be hit by this charge — something that Government Members who be not in their place at the moment do not seem to understand , but really should . this be an attack on aspiration , pure and simple , and we oppose it . other hon . member have refer to the family farm tax . next week , every Member will have the opportunity to vote and show whether they stand with their farmer or with Labour ' s family farm tax , which will do so much damage to our countryside and food security . as I mention , the consistent theme in this debate from Government Members have be blame a fantasy black hole for this tax - increase Bill . those claim be thoroughly debunk by the OBR , and by the shadow Chancellor in his opening remark . before the election , the Chancellor say that she would not pretend to have not know the state of public finance in order to justify tax rise . then she do just that . let we hope that she mean what she say to the Treasury Committee on 6 November : " we have now set the envelope for spend for this Parliament , and we be not go to be come back with more tax increase or , indeed , with more borrowing . " there we have it . read her lip : no more tax increase . that be the commitment , not to the Confederation of British Industry , but to this House ; but at Prime Minister ' s question today , the Prime Minister fail to repeat that pledge . he hang the Chancellor out to dry . if the Chancellor break that promise , how can she credibly continue in post ? Labour inherit the fast grow economy in the G7 , inflation at target , unemployment halve and the deficit halve . Labour Members may not like it , but it be true . [ interruption . ] it be absolutely true . the measure in the Bill do not boost growth but target work people , pupil and parent , small business , and the wealth creator we need to grow the economy . many Government Members have loyally clung to the idea that the Government be fix the foundation of the economy . not many would agree — not Tesco , Lidl or the other retailer who have warn that the £ 25 - billion - a - year job tax will mean job loss and people ' s weekly food shop go up ; not the two third of firm who say that they will scale back on take on new people ; not the pub , bar , restaurant and hospitality sector , which be hit by an extra £ 1 billion of cost . the Prime Minister have find someone who agree with he , although he do have to go to Rio to do so . however , while President Xi be so well practise in parrot meaningless slogan that he could be a Labour MP , the british public and british business be not buy it . they know that this government do not back enterprise and do not keep their promise . the difference could not be clear : we stand with work people , people take a risk to start business and take people on , and people invest in company . unlike the Labour party , we be on their side . I urge member to support our amendment tonight . just as it be an honour to close the Budget debate on behalf of the Government , it be an honour to close the debate on Second Reading of the Finance Bill — the first Finance Bill by a Labour Government in 14 year . I thank hon . member for their contribution , and look forward to hear further contribution during the Committee of the whole House and the Bill ' s remain passage , alongside the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury . before I address the numerous point raise in the debate , it be worth reflect briefly on the point make by the Exchequer Secretary in his opening remark on what the Bill will achieve . the Bill legislate for key measure in the Budget — a Budget in which we take tough decision on tax , spending and welfare to restore Britain ' s economic stability . the Bill deliver on our manifesto commitment and start the work of move to a fair , more sustainable tax system while raise the revenue need to adequately fund our public service . the Government have take a balanced approach that will create a fair system while still promote growth and wealth creation . we be adjust the rate of capital gain tax , for example — a tax pay by few than 1 % of adult every year — to raise some of that revenue . although rate have increase , the Government will maintain the UK ' s position as have the low cgt of any european G7 economy . there be no change to CGT rate on property or the annual exempt allowance , and there be a phase increase to business asset disposal relief , to give entrepreneur time to adjust . that be just one of the many measure in the Bill that will move we to a fair system , where those who can pay do pay . [ interruption . ] I will get on to farmer , hon . member will be pleased to know . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) on an excellent maiden speech . she be absolutely an inspiration to her teenage daughter , but also to young woman across the country , include my daughter . I thank she for that . we be very pleased to have she . we need more people with career in tech in the House . she be very welcome . we also hear powerful contribution from my hon . friend the Members for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) , for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) , for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) , for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) , for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) and for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) for his play on word — as an english graduate , I always enjoy that , and I think he be excellent . hon . member have extensively discuss the agricultural property relief change announce in the Budget , and will note that they be not include in the Bill . that be because the Government be commit to technical consultation on tax legislation . we feel it be important to get complex legislation right , and to give business and those affect by tax change the certainty that they need ahead of the measure come into force . the Government will publish draft legislation on this measure before legislate for it in a future Finance Bill . I be grateful to the Minister for make that point . be there a timetable attach to that that she could set out to this House ? many business will have listen to that statement , and will want to know exactly when they need to make their business decision . we will set out plan in due course . the Bill do , however , extend the scope of agricultural property relief from 6 April 2025 to land manage under certain environmental agreement . that support the UK Government ' s wide environmental objective of support farmer and land manager so that they can deliver , alongside food production , significant and important outcome for the climate and environment . the measure be intend to prevent the loss of APR be a barrier to the involvement of agricultural landowner and farmer in land use change under environmental agreement include , but not limit to , the environmental land management scheme in England and equivalent scheme elsewhere in the UK . I want to address something the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) talk about : family farm . this be not in the Finance Bill , but I will still refer to it . individual can pass on a sum of up to £ 325 , 000 inheritance tax - free ; £ 500 , 000 if that include a residence be pass to a direct descendent ; and £ 1 million when a tax - free allowance be pass to a surviving spouse or civil partner . there be also a full exemption from inheritance tax when pass asset to a spouse or civil partner . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . Madam Deputy Speaker , I beg for your patience as I retread some of the remark I make early . it be my view that the family farm tax give we the bad of both world at the moment . it do not prevent equity company from buy up land , but it do treat family farm as collateral damage . I urge she to think again on this measure and think about introduce a genuine family farm test . if she be to do that , she would certainly have the Liberal Democrats ’ support . it be a difficult decision , and I understand the point the hon . Lady be make , but the reform to agricultural property relief mean that farmer can access 100 % relief for the first £ 1 million and 50 % relief thereafter , mean an effective 20 % tax rate . it be a difficult decision , but we have to do it to fund public service . my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) talk about tax avoidance and fraud . to stop people take unfair advantage of our system , the Government announce in the Budget the most ambitious ever package to close the tax gap , raise £ 6 . 5 billion in additional tax revenue per year by 2029 - 30 . will the Minister give way ? the right hon . Gentleman have speak enough time in the debate , so I will not be take yet another intervention from he . the hon . member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) raise question about sme and high street . the Government have be absolutely clear that we need to take difficult decision to deliver long - term stability and growth , and that stabilise public finance be the only way to create long - term stability in which business can thrive . but we recognise the need to protect small employer , which be why we have more than double employment allowance — she may like to know that — mean that half of business with mixed liability will either gain or see no change at all next year . the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) raise question about vat on private school hit SEND pupil . to protect pupil with special educational need and disability who can only have their need meet in a private school , the local authority and devolve government that fund those place will be compensate for the vat they be charge on those pupil ' fee . I hope that reassure he . the right hon . Gentleman also raise a point about faith school . of course the Government value parental choice and recognise that some people want their child to be educate in a school with a particular faith ethos . my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary meet the Partnerships for jewish Schools and the Association of Muslim Schools during the consultation period on this policy . to ensure fairness and consistency between all school that charge fee , faith school will remain in the scope of the policy . it be worth note for the right hon . member that some faith school be likely to be less impact by the policy if some of their income be derive from voluntary donation from the community , because donation that be freely give and for which there be no obligation be outside the scope of vat . as such , not all the income that small faith school receive will necessarily be subject to vat . I hope that reassure he a bit . I thank the Minister for give way . I want to ask she specifically about what she just say about special school still get funding . be she aware that many parent of child with special educational need choose to send their child to special school even though they do not have education , health and care plan , so do not have fund through local authority and so will still be affect by this measure ? I wonder what she think about that . my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary say that he will write to the hon . Lady about this , but we note the point that she have make , and we be look into they . the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) ask about oil and gas investment . we recognise that oil and gas will continue to have a role in the energy mix during the transition , but we need to drive public and private investment towards clean energy . the money raise by these change will contribute to public investment while the sector continue to benefit from £ 84 . 25 in relief for every £ 100 of private investment . to reflect our commitment to facilitate clean home - grow energy , the Government have confirm that the sector will continue to benefit from a decarbonisation investment allowance with a value similar to the relief that it receive prior to the November energy profit levy rate increase . I end by say that the Bill deliver on key manifesto commitment from this Labour Government . it provide stability , it support business , and it move we to a fair , more sustainable tax system . for those reason , I commend it to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Iqbal Mohamed Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Greg Smith Alicia Kearns Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Kenneth Stevenson Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 112 , Noes 333 . question accordingly negative . question put , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Kenneth Stevenson Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Martin McCluskey Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Mark Pritchard David Reed Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Greg Smith Alicia Kearns the House divide : Ayes 332 , Noes 176 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Finance Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) . that the follow provision shall apply to the Finance Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the follow shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House — ( a ) clause 7 to 12 and schedule 1 and 2 ( capital gain tax rate and relief ) ; ( b ) clause 15 to 18 and Schedule 3 ( oil and gas ) ; ( c ) clause 47 to 49 ( value add tax on private school fee ) ; ( d ) clause 50 to 53 ( stamp duty land tax ) ; and ( e ) any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of the Clauses and Schedules mention in paragraph ( a ) to ( d ) . ( 2 ) the remainder of the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Committee of the whole House ( 3 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall be complete in two day . ( 4 ) the proceeding — ( a ) shall be take on each of those day in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . first day second day clause 7 and Schedule 1 ; clause 8 to 11 and Schedule 2 ; clause 12 ; any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of those Clauses and those schedule 3 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill on the first day . clause 15 to 18 and Schedule 3 ; any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of those Clauses and that schedule 6 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill on the first day . clause 47 to 49 ; any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of those clause 3 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill on the second day . clause 50 to 53 ; any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of those clause 6 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill on the second day . proceeding in Public Bill Committee etc ( 5 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 4 February 2025 . ( 6 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . ( 7 ) when the provision of the Bill consider , respectively , by the Committee of the whole House and by the Public Bill Committee have be report to the House , the Bill shall be proceed with as if it have be report as a whole to the House from the Public Bill Committee . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 8 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 9 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . programming committee ( 10 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medical Devices that the draft Medical Devices ( post - market Surveillance Requirements ) ( amendment ) ( Great Britain ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 October , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Constitutional Law that the draft Scotland Act 1998 ( transfer of Functions to the Scottish Ministers etc . ) order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 28 October , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Aviation Safety ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 23 October , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . Sewage discharge : South West Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) the issue of sewage dumping in our waterway be one of the big concern of resident across my North Cornwall constituency during the general election . and judge by the number of member here today , I certainly be not alone in that . in the course of my speech , I will take the opportunity , first , to highlight the scale of the problem of sewage dumping and its effect on our community ; secondly , to set out what infrastructure improvement be badly need to tackle this scandal ; thirdly , to outline some of the regulatory reform that be require ; and , finally , to outline what South West Water must now do to end the scandal of constant sewage dumping in our beach and river . North Cornwall be a very rural constituency . we have several river , include the Camel , the Inny and the Allen . North Cornwall be also bless with some of the most beautiful beach in the world , include Harlyn , Summerleaze , Widemouth bay , Daymer bay , Polzeath , Crackington and many more . I be extremely fortunate to grow up in Cornwall where I learn to swim and surf at these incredibly beautiful spot . North Cornwall ' s family and resident , young and old , thoroughly enjoy the wave at Mawgan Porth , the fishing village of Padstow and Port Isaac and the breathtake cliff at Tintagel . they also enjoy the impressive sea pool in Bude and Boscastle . the Environment Agency ' s 2023 figure show that the total duration of sewage overflow discharge into local river and waterway in the south - west region be 530 , 737 hour , which represent an 83 % increase compare with 2022 . in 2020 , Natural England notify Somerset council that the phosphate level in the Somerset Levels and Moors Ramsar site be too high , and thousand of home be still catch in a moratorium . alongside this , last year , there be 3 , 336 sewage spill in Glastonbury and Somerton , make it the most polluted constituency in the country . do my hon . friend agree that water company should be invest in more sewage treatment plant and that the Government should introduce a sewage tax on water company ' profit ? I absolutely agree on both of those point and I shall address they in slightly more detail in a moment . in 2023 alone , many of the blue flag beach in North Cornwall experience more than 2 , 700 hour of sewage discharge across 148 separate incident . this pollution , as my hon . friend have just mention , be often link to combine sewer overflow , which be activate during heavy rainfall to prevent urban flooding , severely compromise water quality and endanger swimmer and marine life . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate . he talk about storm overflow . the datum record from storm overflow by South Water West be sometimes different to that which appear on the Water UK app . do he agree that we need just one single reliable source for sewage outflow datum ? I agree that we need one reliable source of datum , and I will come on to address that slightly later in my speech . I commend the hon . member for bring forward this matter . he refer to the fact that his mum and dad live in a farm building , and it be clear what the issue be there . do he have the same problem as my constituent when it come to single house with septic tank ? the removal of sludge can be do only once a year . for disabled people and big family it be important to have it do twice a year . have he experience that issue in his own constituency ? have grow up in a very rural area in North Cornwall , I know that many of my constituent face that issue , so I thank the hon . member for raise it . to look beyond the shocking statistic for a moment , and properly understand the real impact that the issue be have on coastal community such as mine , I refer to three - year - old Finley from Widemouth bay . this time last year , Finley ' s mum take her son to Widemouth bay to play on the north cornish beach . later that day , Finley become extremely unwell , and a friend ' s child who have be on the same beach at the same time have similar symptom of diarrhoea and vomiting , which last for week . just last week , there be three sewage dump in Widemouth bay . tragically , in just the few month since my election , I have lose count of the number of constituent who have write to I or stop I in the street to explain how they have stop swim or surf in our ocean for fear of get sick from the contaminate water . Cornwall be cover with sewage alert , and proceeding have be take against South West Water . do the hon . Member agree that the new water review will be vital to reform regulation and infrastructure ? I will address the water review in a moment . I be pleased that the Government be finally look at this issue in detail , and crucially , as the hon . Member say , consulting , which be so important . as I say , I have lose count of the constituent who have tell I that they have stop swim or surf in our ocean for fear of get sick from the contaminate water . imagine the immense effect of that on our tourist industry in Cornwall and the south - west , which have be the envy of the country . sewage spill be wreck not only our health but vital local business . surfer Against Sewage have report large increase in report of people get ill after enter the water . in the year to September 2022 , there be 720 report , double the number in the previous year . by September 2023 , the number have rocket to 1 , 924 . it be with a certain amount of trepidation that I go surf at summerleaze beach in Bude just day before the election — not just because my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) be stand next to I in a wetsuit and I wonder what stunt await I , but because there be visible sign of a sewage dump from early that day . it be not just our beach that bear the brunt of sewage dumping but our river . just today , Natural England confirm that the River Camel remain in an unfavourable condition , and Cornwall Wildlife Trust caution I just this afternoon that our ecosystem and specie be in grave danger if we do not urgently put a stop to this . my constituency be a little further north but still in the south - west . I recently spend an afternoon with some environmental campaigner in Tewkesbury , testing and recording sample from the River Avon for nitrate and phosphate pollution . the amount of pollution be find to be very high in the former and high in the latter , consistent with their finding since June 2023 . do my hon . friend agree that it be time to put environmental expert on water company board to hold they to account and ensure that environmental concern take precedence in the boardroom ? I do agree with my hon . friend — I be start to wonder whether hon . member have see my speech because I be come on to that . how do we end this scandal ? despite the result of the parent company of South West Water , the Pennon Group , for 2023 - 24 show that the group ' s revenue have increase 10 % to £ 908 million , largely thank to high customer bill , very little of that be spend on much - need infrastructure upgrade . to add insult to injury , the company recently announce that South West Water bill will rise by a staggering 22 % by the year 2030 . a copy of Pennon Group ' s five - year business plan to 2030 seemingly describe the state of our waterway in a parallel universe . on page 27 , under the heading " bathing water quality " , reference be make to " deliver improvement at bathe and shellfish water across the region , to maintain our 100 % bathing water performance . " a quick glance at the company ' s own WaterFit sewage app show there to be sewage dump at multiple beach across Cornwall and the south - west region today , and quite likely as I speak . I thank the hon . member for secure this important debate . Sewage be a massive issue across the south - west , and in Dorset in particular , and a constant source of frustration for my constituent . one issue that come up time and again be the excessive profit that private water company be make . do he agree that it be time those company be bring back into public ownership ? I will lay out some of my suggestion for water company reform shortly , so I will not give away any spoiler just yet . it be well know that one of the big reason for sewage dumping be that there be not enough capacity in our storm overflow tank to hold rainwater . to make sufficient capacity , those tank be routinely empty and raw sewage be pump into our waterway . soon after my election , I be face with report of brown water come out of resident ’ tap in St Eval and , in some case , no water at all . it turn out that the reservoir tank at the nearby Bears Down reservoir have serious crack in it , and water tanker be deploy to serve the area . the capacity of the tanker be nowhere near sufficient , and a measly compensation of £ 50 per household be issue after week of severe disruption . similarly , in Week St Mary , resident complain to I about problem with their water pressure , which have persist for year . in some case , the sudden drop in pressure cause scolding from the result hot water . it be quite clear that those issue have arise after decade of under - investment in our water and wastewater infrastructure . we may reasonably ask , " where have Ofwat , the water regulator , be while all of this have be go on ? " Ofwat have seemingly be miss in action , which bring I to the urgent need for a regulation revolution in our water industry . I welcome the Government ' s plan — part of the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill — to prohibit performance - relate pay for senior official in a year when a water company fail to meet its environmental , consumer or financial standard . I eagerly await how those standard will be more tightly define . I be more suspicious , however , about the proposal to require each water company to publish an annual plan detail how it will reduce pollution incident . many water company already do that , and my constituent want to know how those company with their glossy brochure and ambitious target will be hold to account . there be a palpable sense of relief among senior executive at South West Water when I meet they soon after the detail of the Bill be publish . on enforcement measure , if the water company fail to meet improvement target , Ofwat will be give the power to issue fine . it be questionable whether fine will incentivise firm that be make hundred of million of pound and , again , I look forward to see at what level the penalty will be set follow the consultation . my hon . friend be make an excellent case . certainly in my own constituency , far west than his own , in west Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly , there have be 18 discharge around the coast just in the past 10 day . on the propose change in the Government consultation , as attractive as the concept of bring water back into public ownership be — and I strongly support it — the consequence and cost make it rather challenging . the Conservatives set up the company as risk - free , money - make emporium . do he agree that we need to bring in regulation that ensure they be govern in the public interest ? my hon . friend make a good point , and I will outline some of the measure I will put to the Minister . I urge the Government to go much far by scrap Ofwat , which have prove itself to be toothless and miss in action . the liberal Democrats would replace Ofwat with a much more powerful clean water authority , which could ban bonus for water company boss who fail to stop sewage dumping , revoke licence of poorly perform water company immediately , force water firm to publish the full volume and scale of their sewage dumping , mandate local environmental expert to sit on water company board , and set legally bind target on sewage discharge . I thank the hon . member for give way and for bring this debate before the House . on the question of public ownership , do he think that the independent commission on the water sector regulatory system might be well off if it be task with at least consider how public ownership of water company might work , rather than the current situation , in which this supposedly independent commission have be ban from consider one of the possible solution to the problem ? the hon . member raise an important point about independence . as be cover briefly early , that consultation will be a very important part of this process . Lib Dem amendment have recently be table in the other place to empower the regulator to revoke water company licence in the face of repeat failure and , crucially , to make it a criminal offence for water company to fail to implement pollution reduction plan , hold senior manager personally and criminally liable . in the last Parliament , my liberal Democrat colleague in this place also table an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill that would have create a sewage illness victim compensation scheme . under that scheme , where medical evidence be provide to support a claim , proper compensation would be payable by water company to their victim , such as three - year - old Finley and his family . I take this opportunity to plead with the Minister , on behalf of all my constituent , to seriously consider these measure so that water company be finally hold accountable , with no more excuse and no more delay . pick up on a point make by my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) early , EDMs — not electronic dance music or early - day motion , but event duration monitor — that be fit to storm overflow tank only measure the number and duration of spill , not the volume . there have also be report of fault with those EDMs , which could represent a serious under - reporting of sewage spill , significantly skew the datum . that could mean that the situation be far bad than we think . whatever enforcement approach be take by the Government against water company , the accuracy of the datum will be crucial , so I ask the Minister to please consider the accuracy of the current monitoring system . when I take my seat in this place , I promise my constituent that I would always speak truth to power . in a previous career , I advise business and their leader . if I could offer some advice here and now to the chief executive of South West Water , I would say , " please do the decent thing and go now . " in what other universe could a chief executive preside over such a record of abject failure ? with Ms Davy have be the chief finance officer since 2015 and then the chief executive since 2020 , almost 10 year of fail leadership have bring we to this diabolical situation . how on earth can anyone now have confidence that South West Water will miraculously turn thing around in the next five year ? Ms Davy decline to take a bonus last year , instead add that bonus amount to her base salary , which at last count be a whopping £ 860 , 000 . before member start worry about South West Water ' s shareholder , they too be award a generous dividend of 44p per share . this be all while water bill be rocket , child be get severely sick as a result of that greed , and people everywhere be too afraid to enjoy the beach and river that make Cornwall and the wide south - west so uniquely special . as a society , at what point do we come together and say that this have to stop , for the sake of our child and the sake of we all ? well , I humbly suggest that that point have now long pass . I thank the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) for secure this important debate and everybody who have intervene . may I also express my support and sympathy for Finley ? it be awful to hear about child become ill when they be just enjoy the thing that we enjoy so much as child . I be genuinely sorry to hear about that . as I have say before , the amount of sewage in our waterway be unacceptable — clearly unacceptable . for too long , the level of pollution in our river , lake and sea have be leave unchecked . the south - west of England , with its 860 mile of coastline , be bless with some of the most stunning waterway in the country , and it be of course vital that we protect these natural asset . South West Water ' s environmental performance be clearly not good enough . it continue to be rate as require improvement in the Environment Agency ' s environmental performance assessment , and it have the high rate of incident on its network in the sector . so far , as the hon . Gentleman say , there have be 20 pollution incident in his constituency , and they be clearly unacceptable . where company have fail in their statutory duty to maintain their asset properly and protect the local environment , regulator will take appropriate enforcement action . the Environment Agency have inform I that 24 charge against South West Water currently await a court hearing , and many of they relate to discharge in North Cornwall . of course , it be inappropriate for I to comment far on these while those proceeding be ongoing . however , I be reassure that the new power in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , include those relate to the monitoring of emergency overflow — I quite enjoy the idea that we could call EDMs electronic dance music instead , and maybe that be what I will be think of in the future — will assist the Environment Agency with workload and efficiency relate to these type of offence . two new dedicated inspection team have be in place since October this year . once officer be train , the annual number of inspection in the region will double from the 335 they will carry out this year . I think that be positive action that have be take by the Environment Agency . look forward , South West Water be take action to deliver necessary improvement . subject to Ofwat ' s final determination , it be plan to invest about £ 750 million over the next five year to reduce sewage spill by 58 % from current level . it be also aim to cut pollution incident by 30 % , and invest £ 140 million to reduce nutrient pollution in river . this investment will mean clean river , sea and lake across the country — I be keep an eye on the time this time , Madam Deputy Speaker . on storm overflow guidance , in support of the forward investment to reduce pollution incident , on 21 November the Government launch a consultation on update information and guidance for the management and regulation of storm overflow infrastructure in England . a document will be publish shortly afterwards to ensure that water company have a clear forward framework to guide investment in storm overflow improvement . the Government have also intervene to increase the transparency of pollution incident to enable the public and the regulator to well hold water company to account . we have include a duty in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill to require all water and sewerage undertaker to produce annual pollution incident reduction plan , along with an accompany implementation report . the chief executive will be personally responsible for approve both the pollution incident reduction plan and the accompany document . on the national storm overflow hub , the Government have legislate to require water company to publish all discharge datum from storm overflow in real time . the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) mention the need to have one reliable source of datum , which be incredibly important . Water UK launch its national storm overflow hub last Friday . if hon . member have not have a chance to look at it , please do . on transparency , it be very good ; in make we angry about pollution incident , it be maybe not so good . however , we can see where company be discharge all around the country , how long they have be discharge for and whether they be online or offline . for transparency , it be a huge step forward . although I be not from the south - west , I have the beautiful River Wharfe flow through my constituency of Shipley . until now , we have be rely for transparency on Top of the Poops , which show that there be over 2 , 450 overflow of sewage pollution last year . do the Minister agree that these be national problem , and we really need to tackle this not only with South West Water , but with the like of Yorkshire Water , to make sure these sewage outflow stop in future ? I agree entirely with my hon . friend , and I commend she for come and raise that point . I completely support she . I be aware of the new storm overflow hub that the Minister talk about . my point be that sometimes the datum that the new hub reveal be different to the datum that the water company be reveal on their app , such as the South West Water WaterFit app . that be discover by a constituent of mine in relation to Sidmouth last weekend . I be more than happy to look into any anomaly , so if member want to send through detail of where there seem to be a discrepancy in the datum , I can pick that up . South West Water have 156 bathing water , and I be hope that the hon . member for North Cornwall will be pleased not only with our bathing water announcement on remove strict automatic de - designation , and remove fix date , but also that we be redefine the term " bathe " perhaps to include people who go surf — I hear that he be interested in surf . that will enable more people to enjoy the water environment . at the moment the term " bather " refer to people who swim , but we know that so many more people enjoy our beautiful water . on 12 November defra , jointly with the Welsh Government , announce a consultation on a package of potential reform to bathing water regulation , and those change will modernise the system to meet the need of the public . the Government have be clear that there be no excuse for poor performance , and we will not look the other way while company routinely fail to meet agree standard . water company must take seriously their role in meet public expectation and regulatory requirement , hold they to account when they fail . let I recap our three - stage approach to fix the water industry . in the first week of the new Labour Government , the Secretary of State and I meet water company to secure agreement to amend their article of association . funding for vital infrastructure investment be ringfence so that that money can not go on bonus — we see evidence of that just last week . that money be for infrastructure improvement . there be new customer on the panel of water company , as we be look at change the culture and give customer a voice , and we be also strengthen protection and compensation for household . the most significant increase in enforcement power for regulator in a decade have come from the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which will arrive in the House for Second Reading before Christmas — I be sure I will see many face in that debate . those power include provide Ofwat with power to ban bonus , enable regulator to issue automatic and severe fine for wrongdoing , and there be also a duty on Ofwat to fulfil its environmental duty and legal requirement . the Bill will strengthen cost recovery power to ensure that water company bear the cost of enforcement activity . the independent commission have be mention a few time , and it be need to reform the whole water system . as we know , the system have develop incrementally since privatisation — I do not think anybody here think it be a system that we would wish to design in the way it have evolve . the call for public evidence will come in January , and as I have do before , I urge every Member across the House to get involve in that and find some evidence . I thank the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) for secure this important debate . many of the point that have be raise this evening be issue we have all experience , but I have find that South West Water ' s communication and engagement with its customer have be atrocious over recent month . what more can the Government do to ensure that South West Water properly engage with its customer ? I apologise to the hon . gentleman for have to rearrange our meeting yesterday as I be visit a flooded area . we will get that meeting back in the diary quickly . he be right to raise that issue as it be one of the reason why we want to put customer representation on the water board , and give customer that strong voice . I be more than happy to follow that issue up with the hon . Gentleman and see what more I can do to support he . it be incredibly important that customer be treat with the respect they deserve , and if water company be not do that , I be more than happy to follow it up . rise — I have two minute leave so I will quickly finish if hon . member do not mind . the commission will be lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe , support by expert adviser , who will be announce shortly . it will be wide - range and report to the Government in the second quarter of 2025 . the recommendation be intend to inform future legislation to deliver long - term reform to clean up pollution and return the sector to stability across England and Wales , include of course the south - west . I be grateful for all the contribution to the debate . this be a really important issue . I reiterate the Government ' s commitment to drive meaningful long - term improvement in the performance and culture of the water industry . we be committed to improve the health of our river , lake and sea across England and the south - west . I look forward to work with all hon . member who be interested in fulfil that ambition with we . question put and agree to . House adjourn .