Speaker ' s Statement before we begin , I be sure that the House will wish to join I in send our good wish to Robert Gibbs , cater operation manager , who will be leave the House of Commons service tomorrow after 25 year . Robert be instrumental in set up the catering operation in Portcullis House when it open more than 20 year ago , and he have since be dedicate to his role in support the management of cater across the estate . he recently step up as act director of catering service , lead and support the whole team for the past two year . I take this opportunity to thank Robert , on behalf of the whole House , for his 25 year of service , and to wish he well in the future . Robert be a good man and we will miss he . oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — support for Cycle Manufacturers what step he be take to support small and medium cycle manufacturer . small and medium - sized bicycle manufacturer be important for our green growth ambition . through the Government ' s industrial and trade strategy , we be back innovation , sustainability and skill development to help business , include cycle manufacturer , to scale up so that they can compete globally and continue drive forward the UK ' s cycling economy . I , too , wish Robert a happy next new adventure , Mr Speaker , and I wish her Majesty the Queen a happy birthday . the removal of anti - dumping duty on e - bike from China have raise serious concern for UK cycle manufacturer , which be mainly small and medium - sized business . with similar duty on standard bike and part now under review , many UK manufacturer be worried about navigate the complex trade investigation process . will the Minister meet industry representative to ensure that the voice of our small and medium - sized british cycling manufacturer be hear ? I associate myself with your statement , Mr Speaker , and with the comment of the hon . Lady . I recognise that there be concern about this issue among cycle manufacturer . the hon . Lady may be aware that some anti - dump measure have be extend until 2029 , but some have be lift as a result of the work of the Trade Remedies Authority . we be always happy to meet cycle manufacturer to discuss their concern — whether it be with the hon . Lady or directly with industry , I be very happy to ensure that such a meeting take place . I call the shadow Minister . it be not just cycle manufacturer that be have to pedal hard to survive under this Government . with business survey after business survey state that tax be the big worry for business , will the Minister take this opportunity to assure business that the Chancellor will not be come back to burden they with more in her Budget this autumn ? first , I commend the hon . Lady for the humour in her question . as she will recognise , this be Business and Trade Question Time , not Treasury Question Time , where tax measure be usually deal with , but I be sure that the Treasury will note her comment . I should perhaps point she to recent survey of business confidence : the Lloyds Bank business barometer point out that business confidence be at a nine - year high . I be sure she will be delight by that news . well , except for the fact that the whole House will have hear that the Government be not prepared to rule out saddle cycle manufacturer and other business with more taxis this autumn . will the Minister at the very least assure the House that he and his fellow Business Ministers be make representation to the Treasury that business really can not take any more tax rise ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her suspicion that I have considerable influence with the Treasury . we be always in discussion with Treasury colleague , and indeed colleague across Government , about what more we can do to support business . another indicator of improve business confidence be a survey by the American Express business barometer , which point out that almost three quarter of small and medium - sized enterprise boss be confident about the future — again , up from last year . parental Leave what step he be take to support work family through the parental leave system . through our landmark Employment Rights Bill , we be make paternity leave and unpaid parental leave day one right . this align then with maternity and adoption leave . but we be go far . we have launch the parental leave review , fulfil our manifesto commitment . the review will explore how the system can support work family and our modern economy . it will assess the system against four key goal : support maternal health ; boost economic growth through increase labour market participation ; enable flexible , balanced childcare choice ; and , of course , ensure the good start in life for our child . improve our paternity leave offer will be good for parent , good for child and good for our economy . I recently organise an event with Labour colleague , the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers , and Dad Shift , where we hear from Tesco about the benefit that six week of fully pay paternity leave have bring to its business . as part of the parental leave review , which I warmly welcome , will the Minister proactively reach out to business , such as Tesco , that be lead the way on paternity leave ? I thank my hon . friend for his effort in this area , and indeed for highlight the excellent work that some business be already do , go far than the statutory minimum . as we know , when it come to support work parent , every little help . this review will be evidence base . it will reflect and consider the view and experience of those who engage with the parental leave and pay system . I encourage all business to contribute to the call for evidence , which be launch early this month . I can assure my hon . friend that I plan to engage constructively with business , include Tesco and business representative , throughout the period of the review . Hugh ' s law would have bring in job protection and financial support for parent of child age between 29 day and 16 year and guarantee parental leave while those child be receive palliative care . the Government vote down an amendment last night to the Employment Rights Bill that would have bring that in . this campaign have be fight by Ceri and Frances Menai - Davis , and many Government Back - Bench mp have stand side by side with they through that campaign . why have the Minister turn his back on those parent and those child ? we be not turn our back on parent or child . we be actually have the big expansion in worker ’ right and family - friendly policy that we have see in a generation . clearly , we will not be able to satisfy every issue in this area , but that be the point of the review . we be look at the system in the round . it need improve and modernise and that be what we intend to do . Industrial Strategy : North Wales what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the industrial strategy on north Wales . I be delighted by the hugely positive response that the industrial strategy have receive . it be a plan to lift every part of the country , make it easy and quick to do business and to invest . for north Wales , with its formidable prowess in advanced manufacturing , it be a very significant set of proposal . the same be true for Wales as a whole , as I demonstrate on Monday at Port Talbot at the groundbreaking of the new electric arc furnace , which will get the enhance supercharger discount energy price . I totally agree with my right hon . friend ; this Government ' s industrial strategy back business in Wales not just with word , but with action and billion of pound of investment over the next decade . in Wrexham , we be fortunate to have fantastic business , such as Kellogg ' s and Hydro Aluminium among other , which have exciting ambition for high - tech expansion . one barrier that need to be overcome be sufficient power supply to the industrial and trading estate where they be base . will the Secretary of State please update I on how the strategic site accelerator will support they in do so and the propose timeline for its implementation ? I thank my hon . friend warmly for his question . I be excited about this . the strategic site accelerator will prepare and accelerate site for development by use Government tool , such as land acquisition , plan certainty and infrastructure support , to overcome exist barrier to investment on site . it be design to create job , to attract investment and to support our industrial and net zero priority . it will work alongside other initiative such as the connection accelerator service , which will streamline grid connection for major investment project . it be about go fast , be big and be more ambitious for new investment , such as those that could come to my hon . friend ' s area . I can tell he that the Office for Investment be work jointly with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and Ofgem to take this vital work forward . I expect capital to be deploy initially under this programme in 2026 - 27 . arm export : Israel if he will suspend the export of UK - produce F - 35 component to Israel . I be conscious of the hon . member ' s long - stand interest in these matter . I can assure he that export of F - 35 component directly to Israel be already suspend where they be for use by Israel and not for re - export to other country . our strategic export licensing criterion state specifically that licence should not be grant where there be " a clear risk that the item might be use to commit or facilitate a serious violation of international humanitarian law . " give that the court have send this question back to Parliament , do the Minister accept that Israel be commit breach of international humanitarian law ; do he accept that the export of F - 35 component be aid in the commission of these wrongful act ; and if he maintain that we be not in breach of our own arm export law , will he explain on the Floor of this House the basis for how he think we be compliant with our own law ? the F - 35 programme be the large international collaborative defence programme in the world . the hon . Gentleman refer to the recent High Court judgment , and as the High Court itself note , the UK can not make change to the F - 35 programme unilaterally — that require agreement across all the partner nation and the availability of a workable programme - level change to isolate end user across thousand of different component . Industrial Strategy : teesside what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the industrial strategy on Teesside . my hon . friend ' s area be one of the most exciting investment location in the world — in clean energy opportunity , carbon capture and storage , and offshore wind , but also in creative and digital investment , chemical production and steel . specific intervention for the Tees Valley include recommit £ 160 million for its investment zone , enhance support for the Teesside freeport for clean energy industry , and a lot of money for transport for city region fund . of particular interest to business in his area will be the new british industrial competitiveness scheme , which will reduce electricity cost by £ 35 to £ 40 per megawatt - hour for many business in Teesside . I be pleased that the Government have be listen to we and back Teesside business with serious investment — I have be push for investment in clean power and advanced manufacturing . last year , the 2024 UK tech job report name Middlesbrough as the UK ' s fast - grow tech destination . will Ministers work with I to bring in investment in frontier technology such as artificial intelligence to our region as well ? my hon . friend and his colleague be incredible champion for bring investment into the area , and I recognise and thank he for that support . he be right to say that some of the perhaps more traditional industry , though very exciting for the future , be not just the only story in his area . he have mention tech and the creative industry too , and I would say they be huge opportunity . specifically , our investment in skill to make sure that there be a pipeline of talent in every part of the country be a formidable and significant contribution to deliver on those opportunity . I look forward to continue to work with he on these issue . Post Office IT Systems : redress for Postmasters what recent step he have take to support postmaster seek redress for harm cause by faulty it system . by the end of last month , approximately £ 1 . 1 billion have be pay in total redress to almost 8 , 000 claimant . this represent a fourfold increase over the past 12 month , with more than 5 , 000 victim receive compensation for the first time . we have also commit to extend redress to family member . as the House know , there be still much leave to do , and we be consider carefully the recommendation that Sir Wyn Williams make last week in this regard . I thank the Minister for his answer . he will be aware of a Northumberland constituent of mine who be a victim of the faulty Horizon system , lead to she lose her job and her business and become a victim of abuse in her own community . despite my assistance , my constituent remain without an outcome to her claim . will the Minister please look into this case and ensure that her claim be progress as quickly as possible , so that she can receive justice ? my hon . friend describe just one example of the terrible human impact that the Post Office scandal have have on many good people up and down our country who serve their community and who be treat unbelievably badly by the Post Office . I will of course look into the case that my hon . friend have raise . we be determined to do more to help not just her constituent but all those who be still wait for compensation . I thank the Minister and the Government for all they be do in this area . the frustration be that those who deserve compensation , have be traumatise physically , emotionally and financially , have wait many year for the redress that they should be get . there seem to be a delay for some who should be receive the money now . indeed , they be now be tell that it could be another three year before they will receive any money . I genuinely urge the Minister and Government to make sure that people get the money asap — in other word , let we get it do this year . I , and I suspect the whole House , share the hon . Gentleman ' s frustration . there be many opportunity to stop the Post Office scandal , and compensation should have be pay out to all the victim a long time ago . we have quadruple the amount of compensation pay out in the past 12 month , and 5 , 000 victim who have not receive compensation 12 month ago have now do so . be that good enough ? of course not ; there be a lot more to do , and the recommendation that Sir Wyn Williams make last week be helpful in that regard . trade agreement : implementation what progress his Department have make on implement recent trade agreement . the UK continue to make progress across its trade agreement programme to bring prosperity to community across the country . on 30 June , for the US , we implement legislation create two new quota for import of beef and ethanol , and the US remove tariff on UK civilian aerospace good and reduce tariff on UK auto as agree in the UK - US economic deal that we announce back in May . one of the business that stand to benefit from the EU trade agreement be a butcher and deli in my constituency that import a lot of its product from Spain . at the moment , its shelf be unfortunately half - empty because its small spanish supplier — effectively a man with a van — say he simply can not cope with all the Brexit form fill . however , he have say that he expect thing to get well from later this year thank to the Government ' s deal with the EU , which be great news . will the Minister set out what step be be take to implement the removal of the Brexit red tape of sanitary and phytosanitary check , include the likely timetable ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I express my regret that that business , like so many across the country , find itself bury in red tape as a consequence of the implementation of Brexit by the conservative party . there be technical aspect of our agreement with the European Union that need to be work through , but business across the country , such as the butcher and deli he describe , will be willing we on in that endeavour . when be a trade deal not a trade deal ? it have be nine week since the Prime Minister announce a deal to protect steel from US tariff , and 10 week since the Secretary of State say that the India deal be " sign , seal and deliver . " will the Secretary of State publish the detail of these important deal without delay before recess , or will he apologise for mislead the House ? order . we do not accuse other member of mislead the House . a little word before that — " inadvertently " — would support that question . no doubt the hon . Member will wish to withdraw that . indicate assent . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be struggle to keep up with the conservative party ' s position as to whether deal have be do . as I recollect , 34 , 000 worker in Jaguar Land Rover know exactly the difference that a Labour Government be make , give the challenge they would have face with more than 25 % tariff have it not be for the work of the Prime Minister and the Business Secretary . but that be only one sector of the economy . in relation to steel and aluminium , of which the hon . Member speak , we be continue to work with the United States to ensure that the agreement to remove 25 % tariff on UK steel and aluminium can be implement as soon as possible , but we be unique in the level of tariff set compare with every other country in the world . may I thank the Secretary of State for meet regularly with I and my colleague regard the challenge face the ceramics industry ? I look forward to continue to work with he to seek solution for the challenge we face . what assessment have the Department make of the potential impact of its trade strategy on british business , and in particular the ceramics industry ? I see that the general secretary of the GMB be focus on exactly those issue in relation to the ceramics industry this week , and I applaud the concern he have show for a key part of many local economy across the country . I assure my hon . friend that we have give regard to every sector of the UK economy when negotiate the three trade deal secure by the Government — with the United States , as we just discuss , as well as with the European Union and , critically , with India . the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 be a restrictive piece of legislation that centralise power to the UK Government and allow they to override the Scottish Parliament . yesterday , the Labour Government confirm they would not repeal or amend that Tory Act . indeed , the Secretary of State for Scotland previously say that the Act be " bad and damaging " and undermine devolution , and the Business and Trade Secretary vote against it when in opposition . will the Business and Trade Secretary confirm whether he would vote against it again now ? do he agree with the Secretary of State for Scotland that this Tory Act be an attack on the integrity of the Scottish Parliament ? well , well , well ; the grievance machine be be fire up again by the Scottish National party , even at the last Business and Trade question . the reality be that the change make to the United Kingdom Internal Market Act be proportionate , target and focus critically on support the many scottish business that contribute to the consultation . I respectfully suggest to the hon . Gentleman that he should listen to scottish business , which disproportionately benefit from the removal of barrier and the avoidance of new barrier go up in the critical single market that be the United Kingdom . High Street Businesses what step he be take to support high street sme . what step he be take to support high street business . what step he be take to support high street business . to breathe life back into Britain ' s high street , we be address antisocial behaviour and crime , roll out banking hub , stamp out late payment , establish a licensing taskforce , empower community to fill vacant property and reform the business rate system . there be more to do and our forthcoming small and medium enterprise strategy will set out further step . Warrington South be home to brilliant business such as Gourmand ! , an award - win french caf é , Mamars , a wonderful artisan bakery and deli , Hideout , which serve the good pi ñ a colada in Warrington — apparently — and the soon - to - open Zak ' s Shack , a new parent and child - focus caf é in Stockton Heath . such business be the beat heart of our town , build by local entrepreneur who serve the community they love . however , set - up cost , business rate and other barrier make it hard for they to operate . will the Minister outline how the Department specifically support the independent hospitality and food retail sector ? my hon . friend make Warrington sound like a particularly attractive place for a Business Minister to visit , so if she do not mind , I will add that to the list of place that I be keen to visit . independent business , as she rightly say , play an important role in support local growth and community cohesion . we plan to introduce permanently low business rate for retail hospitality and leisure property with a rateable value of under £ 500 , 000 and we have introduce a hospitality support scheme to co - fund project that aim to help those furth from the job market into employment and to boost productivity . I think that will help many of the business in her constituency . when I be out and about in my constituency , I be always impressed by the dedication of staff and small business owner who bring our high street to life . place such as Blaydon ' s Precinct and Consett ' s Middle Street be at the heart of local pride and identity , but after year of austerity and a cost of living crisis , empty shop and the loss of vital amenity such as bank have take a toll , especially in the north - east . what be the Government do to support local business and revitalise high street such as those ? before I have hear about the attraction of Warrington , I have hear about those of Consett . I be pleased to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency and meet many of the great business there just before Christmas . we have introduce measure to fill empty property , include high - street rental auction power for council , which can free up space for new business . we be also protect vital service on the high street through the roll - out of banking hub , with 170 open so far . this week , we publish our Green Paper on the future of the Post Office , which set out our plan to do even more to provide banking service on high street , which , again , I hope will help to bring more footfall on to the high street and help business such as the one that she know only too well . in the last Budget , the Government commit to a fair business rate system that protect the high street . make sure online retailer pay a fair share of rate will help support business on the high street in Sunderland . will the Minister update the House on the engagement and design work that his Department be carry out so that that new fair system can be announce in the Budget ? the Chancellor announce last year that from the next financial year , 2026 - 27 , we intend to introduce permanently low tax rate for retail hospitality and leisure property . a permanent tax cut will ensure that those business will benefit from much - need certainty and support . treasury colleague have be engage business on their proposal for a fair business rate system . the Government plan to publish an interim report on their work and more detail will also be set out in the Budget in the autumn . small independent business like Kitchen Croxley in my constituency have suggest that , to counter this Government ' s national insurance contribution increase , they will need to serve cold coffee and replace staff with touchscreens just to afford to stay open . what will the Minister do to ensure that small business be encourage to grow , rather than be punish for be entrepreneurial , so that local bakery like Kitchen Croxley can keep serve we cake and coffee ? we have take a range of measure to support business such as the one the hon . gentleman mention . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State announce our plan for a business growth service to make it much easy for business to get the advice they need on how they can start up and scale up . the Chancellor set out in the spending review a two - third increase in the capacity of the British Business Bank , which will make it a lot easy for business to access the finance they need to start up and scale up . as many hospitality business continue to point out the significant crime and antisocial behaviour in town centre , the extra police officer that we have recruit , and our commitment to recruit still more , will make it easy to bear down on shoplifting and other antisocial behaviour . labour - lead West Suffolk district council now charge caf é s and restaurant £ 500 for pavement licence for table and chair in front of their premise . their justification for the cost be that the process for grant a pavement licence be more complex than it may initially appear as it involve a number of check with highway authority , the police and counter - terrorism adviser . will the Minister look at pavement licence as an example of where we can deregulate ? the hon . Gentleman make an interesting point about what further measure we can take to bear down on the cost of regulation for small business . it be one reason the Chancellor set up a licensing taskforce that have bring forward a series of recommendation and will shortly publish its conclusion , which the Government will respond to quickly . we be absolutely determined to do what we can to bear down on the cost of regulation for sme . I refer the House to my registered interest as a small business owner . retailer in my constituency , include city centre retailer , tell I that they be on their knee , cripple by soar cost , rise national insurance contribution , rise antisocial behaviour , expensive and poor parking , and a lack of any city centre regeneration . these long - stand independent business — the lifeblood of our community — be now consider closure . have the Minister consider their clear ask , which be reduce or freeze business rate , and have affordable and accessible parking and community - focus event to revive our high street ? one measure that the hon . Gentleman reference be business rate . as I say in answer to previous question , we be determined to introduce permanently low business rate for the retail sector for business with property under a value of £ 500 , 000 . I hope that will make a difference to business not only in Leicester in his constituency , but more generally across the country . I call the shadow Minister . at the heart of every high street be wonderful hospitality sme — pub , caf é s , restaurant , bar and coffee shop — yet the 2024 Budget be a hammer blow to they . with £ 3 . 4 billion of extra cost , one in 10 restaurant face closure this year . indeed , Labour ' s Budget have already cost hospitality 69 , 000 job . for context , in the same period the previous year , hospitality create 18 , 000 new job . can the Minister assure the House that business that be hang on by a thread will not face a hard landing this winter ? the hon . Gentleman be one of those Conservative Front Benchers who have yet to tell we , if they do not like the increase in national insurance contribution , how they would pay for the extra investment in hospital , school and our police force . I gently say that the difficult decision the Chancellor of the Exchequer have to take in the Budget last year be a direct result of the £ 22 billion black hole leave to we by the Conservatives . our small business strategy will set out further measure that we will take to have the back of british entrepreneur . that answer be simply not good enough for the 63 % of employee in the hospitality sector whose job be on the line . yet we now read in the press that the Government appear set on force restaurateur to monitor customer ' calorie consumption — another crippling blow of red tape on top of national insurance hike , minimum wage hike and the regulatory firestorm of the Employment Rights Bill . Jeremy Clarkson be not wrong when he say that the Chancellor be " use a machine gun on publican . " can the Minister really look hospitality sme on our high street and beyond in the eye and say that this be somehow good for business ? one reason the hon . Gentleman ' s party lose the confidence of business be that it promise many , many time that it would reform business rate and never do . the Chancellor of the Exchequer have set out our commitment to permanently low business rate for the hospitality sector — we have already take step in that regard — and she will set out our plan to do even more . that be one way in which we be back up our commitment to sme in the hospitality sector and more generally . Capital and Export Finance : sme what step his Department be take to ensure that sme in Buckingham and Bletchley constituency can access capital and export finance as part of the UK ' s recent trade agreement . on 26 June , the Department publish our trade strategy , announce the expansion of UK Export Finance ' s capacity to £ 80 billion . we also announce measure to give small firm , include those in Buckingham and Bletchley , well access to export protection insurance . the significant increase in the capacity of the British Business Bank will also help to improve access to capital for sme , include , potentially , in my hon . friend ' s constituency . innovative high - growth company , such as Envisics in Bletchley , be develop and export world - lead technology - drive product but face difficulty secure the domestic capital need to scale up . too often , overseas investor and , sometimes , government , offer both finance and other incentive for they to relocate . will the Minister set out in more detail how his Department be work across Whitehall to ensure that domestic financial institution , include government - back entity , be help company like envisic to firmly anchor their innovation here in the UK ? we hear during our SME consultation that one of the big issue face small and medium - sized business that want to scale up relate to access to finance . indeed , since 2011 , the stock of bank lending to sme relative to GDP have fall by around 50 % , which graphically demonstrate the significance of my hon . friend ' s point . we have be work closely with Treasury colleague in particular , and when we launch the industrial strategy , we also launch a funding arrangement for the British Business Bank that will provide £ 4 billion of capital to our high - growth innovative business to ensure that they remain anchored in the UK and be able to scale up here . Industrial Strategy : cornwall what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the industrial strategy on Cornwall . as we have hear , the industrial strategy be a plan to lift every part of the country , and it specifically recognise clean energy opportunity for offshore wind and nuclear in the great south - west . the strategy also highlight foundational industry relevant to its eight sector ' supply chain , include spotlight critical mineral cluster in Cornwall . it include the launch of a new UK Export Finance loan guarantee scheme for domestic supplier sell critical mineral to UK exporter . the upcoming 2025 critical mineral strategy will aim to secure a steady supply of mineral , optimise domestic resource and enhance international collaboration . as the Secretary of State mention , with its vast renewable energy and critical mineral resource , Cornwall be uniquely position to become a key driver of UK economic growth . although the industrial strategy emphasise the role of mayoral strategic authority and city region , particularly in the north and midland , do the Secretary of State agree that Cornwall ' s immense industrial potential must not be overlook , and can he reassure I that unleash the cornish celtic tiger with the economic investment that we need be not contingent on join a mayoral combine authority ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . I be dismay this morning to wake up and hear the Reform party actively argue for less investment in Britain and tell business they should not invest in the UK . I find that absolutely absurd . there be a whole range of tool for local area to shape their economy in the industrial strategy . some relate to mayor , but many do not . it have the mix of tool that be require to unleash the potential of every part of the country , include his own . far to that very encouraging response from the Secretary of State , do he acknowledge that Cornwall be the poor region in the United Kingdom ? it have great opportunity , as the hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) point out , but it have be hamper since lose the high level of EU structural aid . if we be go to take the opportunity and overcome the challenge that Cornwall face , would the Secretary of State be prepared to meet the hon . member for Camborne and Redruth , I and other Cornish Members to establish a bespoke strategy for Cornwall to drive the private and public investment need ? first , let I say that , as someone who use to spend their family holiday in Cornwall , I must protest : I have have two question from cornish colleague and not a single invite to visit Cornwall over the summer holiday . I really think that be unacceptable . the economic history of Cornwall be particularly interesting — I have have this discussion with my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) — and I recognise some of the specific issue that the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) have identify there . of course , I be always willing to meet he , either in Cornwall or here in Parliament , to have that discussion . I believe there be key part of the industrial strategy that will deliver the opportunity and the tool require to unleash what both colleague be try to achieve . independent Retailers what step he be take to support independent retailer . we have freeze the small business multipli for 2025 - 26 , protect over 1 million ratepayer from bill increase , and we be create a fairer business rate system that protect the high street and support investment . our forthcoming SME strategy will set out further plan to help business on the high street and beyond . in Corby and East Northamptonshire , retail and wholesale job account for the large share of employment , support thousand of job . will the Minister confirm that , unlike the last Tory Government , which promise to reform business rate but do absolutely nothing , this Labour Government be commit to deliver a fairer business rate system to support the vibrant high street that our community deserve ? I know that Northamptonshire have a thrive retail and wholesale sector , and I commend my hon . friend for champion the job and business in his constituency . he rightly say that the Conservatives promise to reform business rate . what he do not say be that they promise many time to reform business rate and never do so . we have commit to permanently low business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure business . the Government be commit to publish soon an interim report that set out further detail on the direction of travel , and confirmation of our plan will come at the autumn Budget . I recently meet the owner of Bababing in my constituency , who have open up new premise in Keighley . they want to grow and expand as quickly as possible , but they tell I that this Government be stifle business growth for not only Bababing but many other sme across the country due to the decision they make in the Budget last year to increase employer national insurance and the minimum wage , and the Employment Rights Bill , which be come down the line . do the Government recognise that they be stifle growth , and if so , what be they do about it ? I welcome the establishment of Bababing in the hon . member ' s constituency . I recognise that difficult decision have to be take in the Budget . I be sure he have point out to the owner of Bababing that those difficult decision be take as a direct result of the £ 22 billion black hole that his party leave we to tackle . our small business strategy will set out a range of measure we be take to support business , which I hope will help Bababing and other business in his constituency . hospitality Sector what step he be take to support the hospitality sector . what step he be take to support the hospitality sector . we recognise the vital role hospitality play in drive growth and strengthen all our community . that be why we have commit to permanently low business rate for the sector from 2026 - 27 and announce a hospitality fund to co - invest in project that boost productivity and help community pub adapt to local need . it be also why we have launch an industry - lead licensing taskforce to reduce red tape and other barrier . I regularly meet the Harrogate business improvement district and the chamber of commerce , and we have a thriving hospitality and tourism sector in Harrogate and Knaresborough . I recently meet Alison , a constituent who run a number of local bar and restaurant , and she be worried that with the increase in employer nic , rise energy cost and the other pressure that this Government be not get to grip with , business like hers will not be there to see the benefit of business rate reform . what be the Minister do with Treasury colleague to support local hospitality ? one of the most important measure that will help the hospitality sector be business rate reform . we have set out our commitment to do that , and we be work with all the different part of the business community , include the hospitality sector , to get our reform proposal right . as I allude to in a previous answer , we will publish an interim report give more detail of our thinking on business rate reform , and the Chancellor of the Exchequer will confirm our plan in the Budget later this year . I hope the Minister will join I in thank all the hard - work hospitality staff who be about to have a very busy summer , particularly in Edinburgh West , where they be about to be immerse in the Edinburgh international festival , to which the Minister and the Secretary of State — all the Ministers , in fact — be , of course , invite . we be very hospitable in Edinburgh . the hospitality industry be worth £ 198 million to my constituency , but business be suffer because of the national insurance change , and in Scotland we will not benefit from business rate reform . with the national insurance change and the impact of Brexit and covid , it be a very uncertain time . what else will the Minister do to help business across Scotland that will not have the benefit of business rate reform ? I thank the hon . Lady for her kind invitation . it be possible that I will be darken the door of business in her constituency this summer . we be determined to continue work with hospitality business , whether in Scotland or in the rest of the country . as I say in an early answer , we have set out plan for a licensing taskforce to look at what else we can do to lower the cost of red tape and regulation . as the hon . Lady rightly say , we be take measure to reform business rate , and perhaps the Scottish Government might like to follow our example . in my constituency , Lydia and Frankie both run business that employ around 50 individual . they both have covid loan and energy loan on top of the usual business pressure they suffer . beyond maintain the current discount on business rate , may I urge the government urgently to review business rate reform , which be so desperately need ? I recognise that my hon . friend be a great champion of business in his constituency , and I be pleased to meet one of they when I be there recently . I absolutely recognise the significance of business rate reform . the Chancellor have be very clear that she be commit to business rate reform , and we will set out further detail on our plan in the Budget later this year . despite public transport link people from the Braes , Bonnybridge , Bainsford and beyond to Falkirk , the high street have be dwindle over the past 20 year . SNP and Tory councillor decide to cut the " free after 3 " parking scheme for Falkirk town centre business and far drive footfall away from our high street restaurant , caf é s and pub . in the forthcoming small business strategy , will the Minister consider look at how this Labour Government can support accessible and cheap parking in scottish town centre ? I very much sympathise with my hon . friend ' s frustration about what both the SNP and the Conservatives have do to free parking in his constituency . I sympathise because the Tory - run council in my constituency have take similar step to curtail free parking , which have undoubtedly have an impact on the town centre . I hope that the concern my hon . friend have articulate today will be hear loud and clear in his constituency , and that action will be take . our SME strategy will set out a range of step that we be determined to take to back small business and help entrepreneur across Britain . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the value that hospitality business bring to their local community go far beyond their economic contribution : they also provide a vital social value and essential entry - level job . flexible hour and condition in the sector help those with other responsibility , such as carer and new parent , to access work , while also offer many young people their first job . however , retail and hospitality business have be hit hard by tax change in the October Budget , and they be report reduce hour , cancel investment and closure ; there have be nearly 70 , 000 hospitality job loss just since October . as economic strategy be roll out , what step be the Minister take to ensure that Department for Work and Pensions goal to get people back to work be not be undermine by policy that shrink job opportunity in these sector ? I completely agree with the hon . Lady about the huge importance of hospitality to all our community and to help many people who have difficult route into employment to get their first step back into a job . one of the step we have take be to set up our hospitality fund , work with the great organisation Pub be the Hub , to help landlord to diversify what they offer and drive more footfall into the pub . the fund also support charity that be work with those furth away from the job market to get into job . it be strongly support by hospitality business through the Hospitality Sector Council . as I have say , we have a commitment to a small business strategy and we will set out further measure to help hospitality in that regard . SME Operating Costs what recent assessment his Department have make of trend in the level of operating cost for sme . over the past five year , sme have face a challenging operate environment because of the consequence of the Liz Truss Budget , the poorly negotiate trade deal with Europe , covid and increase global uncertainty . interest rate have come down four time under this government , we have negotiate a new trade deal with Europe and , complement our industrial and trade strategy , we will bring forward an SME strategy to put in place far long - term support to help sme start up and expand . in my constituency and across Scotland , small and medium - sized business have take blow after blow . the Conservatives bungle Brexit , increase import cost , and energy cost be soar . most recently , the hike in national insurance contribution be decimate job opportunity in small and medium - sized business . what be the Government do to support sme , which be at the heart of our economic growth , and to get people off benefit and back into work ? order . Shorter answer please , Minister . yes , Madam Deputy Speaker . I gently say to the hon . Lady that in a recent survey almost three quarter of SME business be confident about the future . she be right to challenge we to go far in increase support for sme . one of the way that we be do that be by increase access to finance for sme , through the significant expansion in the capacity of the British Business Bank . I call Bill Esterson to ask a short question . SME manufacturer be a key part of the plan renaissance in manufacturing in this country . some of they be raise concern about a lack of involvement in the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council . will the Minister confirm that they be very much involved and have an important role to play in develop the SME strategy that he refer to ? absolutely . we want to hear from business up and down the UK , across different sector , about the practical measure that we can take to support they and their plan to grow and develop . if my hon . friend have particular example of business that want to make representation , I be sure that we as a ministerial team would want to hear from they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats welcome the plan in the recently announce industrial strategy to reduce some of the world ' s high industrial energy price . however , business across the UK , especially in hospitality and on our high street , be still struggle with unaffordable energy cost . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that small business can benefit from more sustainable pricing ? will he encourage his Cabinet colleague to consider proposal set out by the Liberal Democrats yesterday to break the link between gas price and energy cost , which would halve energy bill in a decade , so that people and business across the country can enjoy the true benefit of cheap , clean and renewable power ? I have to apologise to the hon . Lady , because I have not yet see the Liberal Democrats ’ policy proposal , but I look forward to that treat over the summer . I be grateful to she for back our plan on energy cost . we be support a pilot in the west midland to help sme to reduce their energy cost . it offer full energy audits and funding to implement measure that can bring down energy cost . the scheme seem to be work well , and we have recently extend it . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this have be a year of real achievement for the Department for Business and Trade . from hold our record - break international investment summit , which see £ 63 billion commit to the UK , to intervene decisively to save British Steel ' s Scunthorpe site and all the shipyard at Harland and Wolff , we have safeguard thousand of job . we have reform the Competition and Markets Authority , change the zero emission vehicle mandate , alter the remit of the Low Pay Commission and introduce the Employment Rights Bill . we have quadruple compensation payment to victim of the Horizon scandal . we have agree trade deal with India , the EU and the US and publish a comprehensive trade strategy to help we to secure great access to global market for british business . we have bring forward our industrial strategy , and last week a survey by Deloitte find that Britain have become the most attractive place to invest in the world . we be deliver this Government ' s plan for change , put money into people ' s pocket , drive growth and kickstarte a decade of national renewal . the Secretary of State have try to paint a glowing picture of what be happen , but I can tell he that in northern Lincolnshire there be grow concern . there have be a number of business failure in the last few week in the Grimsby and Immingham area , and he will be aware of the threat to hundred of job at the Prax oil refinery . all that make it even more important that the Scunthorpe steelwork have a long - term future . can he update the House on the state of thing at Scunthorpe ? I be always keen to update the hon . member and colleague on the situation with British Steel . we have cancel the redundancy consultation and remove the immediate risk to 2 , 700 job . we have take on new apprentice and invest significantly in improve health and safety on the site . we have provide significant work capital — that do not take into account yet the future revenue that will come . I be sure he will have be pleased to see that Network Rail have award British Steel a contract worth £ 500 million . we will continue to ensure that there be a long - term future for British Steel , and we will keep the House and himself update to that effect . the Government ' s £ 500 million investment to support under - represent entrepreneur be hugely welcome by business leader in my constituency , but access to capital be only part of the challenge . many still face entrenched barrier around network , mentoring and market access . will the Minister set out the step that the Government be take to ensure that that investment be complement by wide reform to break down any structural obstacle to scale business in Milton Keynes and Buckinghamshire ? the Government - back invest in woman taskforce be address many of these issue through its ecosystem working group , which promote well access to network , to support and to procurement opportunity . my hon . friend be absolutely right , though , to say that we need to go far . the small business strategy will set out a range of further measure in that regard . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I start by pay tribute to Norman Tebbit ? he be a former Secretary of State for Trade and Industry and a great reformer who do a great deal to unleash growth in this country . the only thing grow under this Government be the unemployment queue . today , the Office for National Statistics reveal that the number of payrolle employee have fall by 180 , 000 over the last year and 40 , 000 in the last month alone . unemployment have be high in every month since the Chancellor have be in office . in the last hour , we have hear news of another 500 job loss at Jaguar Land Rover . this be a great country with great people . when the Secretary of State talk to business , what reason do they give to he for unemployment rise ? it be always nice to hear from the shadow Secretary of State . first , as he know , the Office for National Statistics workforce survey show that the overall number of job be high after a year of this government than it would have be if the Conservatives have remain in government — there be 380 , 000 additional job . he mention payroll job . of course , they be important ; they be one key factor , as be wage , which , as he know , have rise fast in the first 10 month of this Government than they do in the first 10 year of the previous Government . our productivity figure have also rise , and of course , we closely monitor the impact of technology . the shadow Secretary of State ask what business say to I . they say that this Government have bring stability after the mini - Budget disaster , which he be a key part of . they say that we have bring openness to the world and be navigate a difficult trading environment well than anyone else , and they recognise that our pro - business , pro - growth measure be deliver . there be nothing like the list I just give of problem after 14 year of the previous Government . that answer be complacent and unsympathetic . it be the most vulnerable — those look for their first shot , their first chance — who pay the price of unemployment . let we start again . last night in the other place , the unemployment Bill be improve with sensible amendment to probation period , a definition of seasonal worker that protect hospitality and agriculture , and provision for a consultation about the impact on the small business . those measure have be propose by employer , and by independent business group such as the Confederation of British Industry , make UK and the Federation of Small Businesses , who say that the Bill in its current form be deeply damaging . if the Secretary of State will not shelve the Bill entirely , will he at least commit to accept those entirely reasonable amendment ? the shadow Secretary of State talk about vulnerable people . which Government leave one in eight young people not in education , employment or training , while net immigration hit 1 million ? it be absolutely shameful , and we will take no lesson from Conservative Members . he talk about tackle barrier ; who give we the high industrial energy price in the developed world ? the conservative party . who be deal with that ? who have put million into skill and training , finance , and the tool that local area need ? those be the thing that business want . the shadow Secretary of State also talk about the Employment Rights Bill . I regret the Conservatives ' knee - jerk ideological opposition to it ; they could have be pragmatic . the Bill be a manifesto commitment , and we will deliver our manifesto commitment in full . there be issue on which we have to get the balance right , such as probation period and the future monitoring of zero - hour contract , and the commitment be of course real . pragmatic engagement would have be a more constructive way forward than this knee - jerk ideological opposition . the Business and Trade Committee ' s inquiry on small business be still open for evidence from member from across the House . on Tuesday , we take evidence from the chief executive of Ofgem , who make it perfectly clear that a complete collapse of regulation in the year after covid lead to thousand of business across our country pay high energy bill than they need to . can the Secretary of State assure the House that the small business strategy , when publish , will contain a strategy for bear down on the energy rip - off that be challenge small business across our country ? I be always grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee for his helpful and pragmatic work and engagement . I recognise the issue that he have highlight . a lot of small business be lock into uncompetitive contract after covid , and the legacy of that have be very difficult . of course , we will always look at measure to address that . fundamentally , we must break the link that mean that gas set the price of electricity in the UK . there be no shortcuts to that ; we have to get enough clean energy on to the system to make that possible , which be exactly what the Government be do . on Monday , Tina McKenzie , the policy chair of the Federation of Small Businesses , say : " for the first time in the history of the Small Business Index more small business be predict they will shrink than expand , mean that as a country we be potentially face a very dangerous situation . " I have listen carefully to what the Economic Secretary to the Treasury have say about the concierge service , which I welcome , and have see the Leeds reform this week , much of which I welcome . however , will the Minister respond to that stark warning from a very credible source of information ? I have a high regard for Tina McKenzie and the Federation of Small Businesses more generally , and we have be work extremely closely with they on think through what measure should be in the small business strategy to help business start up , scale up and thrive more generally . I gently point the right hon . Gentleman to the slightly more positive picture paint by the fact that the boss of small and medium - sized enterprise have more confidence . we will continue to talk to the Federation of Small Businesses , and will do so in a lot more detail . do the Secretary of State agree that the UK Labour Government be get on with the serious business of deliver an industrial strategy that will support job in my Livingston constituency ? that be in sharp contrast to the fail SNP Government , who have no industrial strategy , no plan for worker , and no plan to support Scotland ' s key sector . I very much agree with my hon . friend . nationalism be fundamentally a creed base on grievance , rather than real solution , and that stand in contrast to our approach . there be specific instance where we could deliver billion of pound of investment to Scotland if there be a change in policy from the Scottish Government , be it on new nuclear in place where Scotland could benefit from small modular reactor , or on the recent decision to pull support for the Rolls - Royce - lead plan for a welding centre for apprentice in the defence sector , which would enable they to support the maintenance of Royal Navy submarine . the SNP Government be actively make decision that get in the way of that investment . if we can not change their policy , let we change the Scottish Government . Eastbourne ' s postie be legend , include Manuel , who cover my patch . upstream issue in the Royal Mail , however , mean that constituent like Michaele be not receive letter for medical appointment until after the appointment time have pass . will the Minister meet I to discuss these appalling delay , and the urgent action that must be take to ensure that our resident get their post on time ? the hon . member be right to pay tribute to the tremendous work that postie do up and down the country , rain or shine , to deliver the mail . there have , of course , be issue with performance in the Royal Mail . I be happy to discuss that far with he , and to make sure , with the help of Ofcom , that we get the service that everyone deserve . on Friday , the Select Committee on Science , Innovation and Technology publish its report on social medium algorithm , follow the Southport riot . indeed , there be a Select Committee statement on the report this afternoon . stakeholder have express concern that ongoing trade negotiation with the United States might prevent the Government from respond to the report ' s recommendation , hold social medium company to account and keep the public safe online . can the Minister reassure we that that be not the case ? I can reassure my hon . friend and all colleague that those decision will always be in the domain of this Government and this Parliament in the UK . there have be a lot of speculation , during the trade negotiation , about what may or may not be involve , but we have show that we deliver on job , good and service , and that be the basis of sound trade negotiation . my constituent , Mr and Mrs Greathead , supply specialist industrial product to business across the UK and Europe . since Brexit , they have face many extra layer of difficulty , delay and cost , and they be in the middle of a three - year battle with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to ensure that correct tariff be charge . will the Minister please look into the barrier that my constituent face when trade with Europe , and ensure that excessive red tape do not hold they back ? I sympathise with the hon . member ' s constituent on the difficulty that they face . on the challenge that he say they face with HMRC , he may want to get in contact with my colleague , the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , who have responsibility for HMRC . at a panel discussion early this year , I join a group of lead woman in the hospitality sector , who repeatedly highlight that the lack of female representation in leadership role and ownership be a persistent barrier to progress in the sector . what step be the Minister take to support woman in the hospitality industry into leadership and ownership role ? this be an important issue . the Invest in Women taskforce be look at some of the very real barrier that woman entrepreneur face , both in hospitality and more generally . access to finance be one of the challenge that we have hear back about . a fund be be put together to help woman entrepreneur with that , but we need to do more , and our sme strategy will set out our plan in that regard . we have hear this morning that the review of the UK Internal Market Act 2020 somehow trample on Holyrood , but in fact , the Government say : " devolve government will have great flexibility to set rule " . be there not a danger that this invite the SNP Government to introduce change for the sake of change , and divergence for the sake of divergence , thus damage trade right across the country ? well , if I be simultaneously be criticise by the SNP and the Conservative party , I be pretty sure that we have get the balance right . the UK Internal Market Act seek to strike the appropriate balance between give devolve government flexibility on policy and avoid unnecessary barrier for UK business . I believe we have get that balance exactly right . the over 1 , 000 employee at the Lotus plant in South Norfolk and Norwich North be the pride of our constituency , and I thank the Secretary of State for his support in recent week . may I ask for a meeting with he and my hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) , so that we can talk about our discussion with local employee ? I can absolutely guarantee my hon . friend that we will have that meeting . I appreciate the work that we have be able to do together , react to the medium report that initially surface . there be some clarity from the company , but not the full degree of clarity that we need . I will make sure that we get that meeting set up for he and his colleague . we have just have our fifth consecutive month of job loss announce , and research show that as many as 17 % of company be consider redundancy . what be the Government ' s analysis of why this be happen ? I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that we have have four interest rate cut , almost 400 , 000 job have be create , our industrial strategy have be hugely welcome , and we have have three deal , so it be perhaps not a surprise that recent survey point to a nine - year high in business confidence . strategy for election ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government if she will make a statement on the new policy announce in the Government ' s strategy for election . the Government have today publish our strategy for modern and secure election . when we come into power just over a year ago , the Government commit through our manifesto to bring forward measure to strengthen our precious democracy and uphold the integrity of our election . the strategy we have publish today set out how we will legislate and implement provision to extend the voter franchise to 16 and 17 - year - old , increase participation in our election , tackle the inconsistency in voter identification rule , and protect our democracy by overhaul our political finance rule . we recognise that there be a grow and worrying trend of candidate , administrator and elector face harassment and intimidation , which have a chilling effect on our democracy . we be bring forward measure to tackle this issue . I thank Mr Speaker and the Speaker ' s Conference for the work that be be conduct , and the report that have be publish , on harassment and intimidation . we will fix the foundation of how election operate by take forward a range of practical measure to ensure that election continue to be deliver successfully . our democracy be central to who we be as a country . we can take pride in its evolution , and in how it continue to inspire . the Government have a responsibility to protect and strengthen it . the plan we have announce today will future - proof our democracy , secure our election and protect they against interference . we will deliver on these plan during the lifetime of this Parliament through a programme of reform , which will include an election Bill that will be introduce in due course . through this strategy , we will usher in a new chapter in our democracy that reflect our principle and restore faith in our politic . I look forward to work with colleague from across the House on this very important agenda . I call the shadow Minister . yesterday , the Department give notice of a write ministerial statement on the Government ' s new strategy for election , which be a significant policy document on change to election law and political finance law — something that affect we all in this House . instead of the Minister use this democratic Chamber to announce a new and wide - range strategy on democracy , the Government choose to announce it to the press in Monday ' s no . 10 lobby briefing — typical government by press release . in fact , it have just be announce on " BBC News " . there will be no opportunity for parliamentary scrutiny until September , due to the pende recess . why do the Minister not choose to come to the House to announce this policy , despite we have be give word through a write ministerial statement that the Government would do so ? why do she not think it right to come here of her own accord to announce it ? why have there be no consultation of political party to date ? this be contrary to the approach of the last Government , who actively consult on change . this strategy have finally reveal the Government ' s ambition to allow a 16 - year - old to vote in an election , but not to stand in it , probably because young people be abandon the Labour party in drove . why do they think a 16 - year - old should be able vote , but not be allow to buy a lottery ticket or an alcoholic drink , marry , go to war or even stand in the election they be vote in ? be not the Government ' s position on the age of majority just hopelessly confused ? do the Minister agree that , while foreign donation be already illegal and should remain so , step should be take to tighten the law to prevent donation from those who be not properly on the electoral roll , include the funnelling of money from impermissible source ? we welcome the u - turn on not scrap voter ID , but will use bank card not undermine the security of the ballot box , and what security measure will she bring in now that automatic registration have be announce ? finally , what step will the Minister take to tackle the important issue of intimidation in public life ? will the Government still abide by the long - stand convention that the Government of the day do not unilaterally impose measure directly affect political party without proper engagement and discussion ? and will they stop announce constitutional policy by press release ? this Government be elect on a manifesto that commit we to grant 16 - year - old the right to vote and protect our democracy from foreign money . I remind the hon . Gentleman that his party lose the general election , in the bad general election defeat for decade , so it be no wonder that the Conservatives be scared of the electorate . the truth be that young people deserve to have a stake and have a say in the future of our democracy . young people can vote for any party they like , and it speak volume that he would prefer they to be silence . I remind the House that the hon . Gentleman ' s party sit in government for 14 year , and do nothing to close the gape loophole allow foreign interference and foreign money to enter our system , despite independent expert call for change . the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s Russia report expose malign effort to channel foreign money into UK politic . both the Committee on Standards in Public Life and the Electoral Commission have call for strengthened regulation and great transparency in political donation , alongside modernise enforcement . we make no apology for finally take the tough choice , and protect Britain ' s democracy from malign foreign interference . the real question for the hon . Gentleman be whether the Conservatives will finally end their addiction to donation from shell company . under the new law , they will not have a choice , and we will not stop there , because they will finally have to update their weak due diligence check and conduct enhance check . we will give the Electoral Commission the power to administer a hefty fine , of up to a maximum of £ 500 , 000 , to deter bad behaviour . instead of point the finger , the hon . Gentleman should be welcome these change , and take the opportunity to finally clean up his party . we have publish the election strategy , and we have lay a write statement . I have respond in the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee and the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission . I will continue to engage with parliamentary colleague in the come day , over the summer recess and in the autumn . we want to make a series of change , and I be determined to make sure we get as much cross - party agreement as possible . I look forward to work with the hon . Gentleman , because I believe that there be common ground on a range of issue . he know all too well the harassment and intimidation , and threat to our life , that many of we have face . it be really important that we work on these agenda together . on move towards automated voter registration , which the hon . Gentleman mention , we will carefully consider how we implement those change to ensure they be do safely , and I look forward to work with colleague on that . we have retain the voter ID change make under the previous Government , but we recognise that certain group of legitimate voter , particularly disabled voter , be exclude . we need to address that gap , and I know his party recognise that challenge , so we will ensure that we do not exclude legitimate voter . I look forward to work with he on issue of common interest and agreement . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I thank the Minister for the write statement and for her work behind the scene . we should welcome the opportunity for more people to be enfranchise . we should be very clear that one person lose the right to vote at the ballot box be one person too many . it be really important that we look at the issue around voter ID , and ensure more opportunity for people to have other form of voter ID at the ballot box . it be important that we enfranchise our young people to vote . they participate in public life already , so they should also be entitle to vote . it be really important to have system where it be easy to be register to vote . when you move home , before you have even unpack you get a council tax bill — the council already have your detail — so it be good that we be look at a system to ensure people be register to vote . for far too long we have knock on door and people have say that they be interested but not register to vote , so that be vital . on ensure candidate still feel safe , this be a big challenge and a threat to democracy . will my hon . friend outline what work she will be do with the Electoral Commission on the intimidation and abuse face by candidate ? order . we do need question and answer to be short . I thank my hon . friend for her question ; she do important work in her Committee . the change we be introduce will ensure that elect representative , candidate , campaigner and electoral staff , who play a unique role in our democracy , be properly protect . we will give court the power to increase sentence for those who be hostile to candidate . an aggravate factor for intimidatory offence will be introduce , allow court to pass tough sentence . we will also remove the requirement to publish candidate ' address . we will consult with the Crown Prosecution Service , the Sentencing Council and other judicial body . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we be very pleased that the Government have publish the strategy , many aspect of which have the support of the Liberal Democrats . we have , for many year , champion vote at 16 and we be really glad that the Government have listen to those call . we also welcome the measure to tackle dark and illicit money in our politic , and the recent plan to introduce supplementary voting for mayoral election . however , I be concerned that the strategy show nowhere near the kind of ambition that we need to fix a system of election that have leave large swathe of the public feeling like their vote simply do not count . as member across the House will know , last year ' s general election turn out the most disproportionate result in history , with nearly 60 % of people who vote not represent in Parliament by the candidate they vote for . this opportunity can not be waste . will the Government go far ? will they look at scrap voter ID in its entirety ? will they look at introduce further measure to ensure that foreign oligarch such as Elon Musk be not able to interfere in british politic , include through party funding ? and will they finally scrap first past the post and introduce fair vote via proportional representation ? the hon . Lady have a lot of question . the Government have no plan to change the electoral system for UK parliamentary and local election . her party , in the coalition Government , have the opportunity , through a referendum , to campaign and institute the appropriate change . our focus be on ensure we address the manifesto commitment we make , include a voting age of 16 . I be grateful to she and her party for their support . we be also take action to tackle illicit finance and foreign interference . I very much hope that she and her colleague will work with we on that very important agenda . I declare an interest as a member of the Speaker ' s Conference , which be look at the security of mps , candidate and election . do my hon . friend agree that a wide number of behaviour in our democratic system be intimidate candidate and , indeed , member of this House , and that that be detrimental to our value and democracy ? will she expand on the measure in the strategy that will seek to alleviate those very serious problem ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . in the 15 year I have be a Member of Parliament , we have see a rise in hatred and hostility towards candidate and elect official , and have sadly face the loss of our dear colleague , Jo Cox and Sir David Amess . this Government be determined to ensure that elect representative , candidate and election official be protect , because this trend be have a devastating chilling effect on our democracy . we need to work together to protect our democracy while protect freedom of speech . I would be happy to speak to my hon . friend on the specific proposal as we proceed with their implementation . I thank the Minister for her statement , but I have not hear she say anything about the work of the boundary commission for local government and constituency . I think they should form part of this discussion , particularly to ensure that constituency can be make up of genuine community by get rid of the pointless rule that a constituency can not go beyond a certain region . area of Essex near my constituency , for instance , can not be include within Romford , which only go into London . similarly , local council ward would surely be well if they be one - member ward , whereby they could be like mini - constituency look after a particular community . would that not be a well way forward , and would the Minister consider it as part of the review ? the hon . Gentleman will understand the process and work of the boundary commission . this strategy be focus on the theme that I speak to early , and that be what we will be focus on . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for fair election , I warmly welcome this policy paper . I think my hon . friend the Minister and I be much more poorly equip to vote when we be 18 than today ' s 16 - year - old , so I warmly welcome that measure . I also welcome the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , introduce last week , with the Government say that first past the post " can lead to individual be elect with only a small proportion of the total vote cast " , and that Mayors and police and crime commissioner " should be elect with a great consensus among their elector . " the Government have also claim that this change will give the local electorate an " increase voice " and will " well support the democratic mandate of people elect to such position " . give the flawed nature of first past the post , will the Minister consider also review the system for election to this place ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his work with the APPG . he be aware of the policy of the Labour party and this Government on first past the post . I refer he to my previous answer on that question . fair election must be election that we can all trust . the most important element of our electoral system be that it be a secret ballot and that it should be down to the individual to make up their own mind . I be therefore deeply concerned that the widespread use of postal voting across the country be allow dangerous fraud with many voter still intimidate and coerce into use postal vote on the instruction of somebody else . the review cover many practical aspect of postal voting , but what step be the Government take to ensure the accuracy and honesty of the postal voting system ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that his party introduce a series of change , include on voter ID and other check as elector register to vote . I be all too aware of the area that need particular focus . we have retain the protection on postal voting . the hon . Gentleman be aware of a number of issue around postal vote , but I reassure he that there be law to ensure that forgery and personation do not happen . we will retain the appropriate check and safeguard that be introduce in the past . may I put on record my profound thank to the Minister for her personal commitment to ensure that we renew confidence in democracy ? I warmly welcome proposal around move away from the first - past - the - post system in regional election and restore that part of our democracy . will she outline how she will tackle the illicit finance that be flow into our democracy ? I have real concern about how foreign influence damage our democracy and I would be grateful for more information on how this strategy will deliver for our country . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her work in this area . as I mention , the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s Russia report expose malign effort to channel foreign money into our politic . we be ensure that the Electoral Commission will have the appropriate power to support political party , make sure that they do " know your donor " check . where party fail in this area , a fine of up to £ 500 , 000 can be apply . we will apply that fine proportionately in recognition of the resource issue of small party . I very much welcome what be in the Government ' s policy , particularly vote for 16 and 17 - year - old . we already have this in Scotland for the scottish parliamentary election and I have also campaign for the change to be make for general election . will the Minister confirm that this will be in place in time for the next general election , and how the information will be pass out to 16 and 17 - year - old that they will now be able to vote in general election ? I thank the hon . Lady for her support . we be look very closely at the work in Scotland and Wales . we want to make sure that we take the time to implement the appropriate change in time for the next general election , but we will work with the relevant institution , include the Electoral Commission , education establishment , the Department for Education , charity , youth organisation and other interested body to make sure that we get this right . I welcome the measure to take out dark money from our politic , but they will mean nothing unless we move forward aggressively to ban cryptocurrency donation in british politic . they be use for money laundering and to disguise dark money . they have no role in british politic . will the Minister confirm that the election Bill will ban cryptocurrency donation ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his work in this area through his Committee and for raise these issue . there be already a number of rule in place on political donation and they must be abide by , regardless of the type of donation make — include cryptocurrency donation . our reform of political finance to far strengthen our democracy will also apply to all donation , include those in cryptocurrency . democracy be fragile and , here in the United Kingdom , our democracy be strongly in the crosshair of nefarious state include Russia and China , which do not share our value . we be see increase activity online , particularly to distort the outcome of election , via platform include TikTok , which have link to communist regime in China . can the Minister update the House on what step be be take in particular to protect our democracy from misinformation that vehemently seek to distort the outcome of election ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that important question . he will be aware that the defend democracy taskforce be lead the work on a range of issue — include , of course , in relation to the point that he have make . we be take action to bear down on those issue , with a cross - Government approach . the Online Safety Act 2023 be important in relation to some of the point that he have make . as I have point out , we be also aware of the danger of foreign interference and foreign state actor , and these reform be really important to protect the integrity of our system and our democracy . as a member of the Speaker ' s Conference , I have hear evidence that have shock I to my core , so I know how much need these reform be . this week I have hold my first summer school with 16 and 17 - year - old this week . twenty of they have be learn about how they can make a change not only in their community , but in the country they live in . do the Minister agree that they deserve to have their voice hear at the ballot box , too ? I thank my hon . friend for her work to support young people to participate in our democracy . young people can work at 16 , pay taxis and join the Army . there be no reason that they should not have the right to a say in who represent they and the right to shape their future . they be passionate about the issue affect their community and country ; I know that at first hand from the work I have do over the year to support young people in their leadership journey and in participate in our election . the SNP welcome that the UK Government be catch up to Scotland , where we have have vote for 16 - year - old for the last nine year . however , it be clear that real change also require look at this Parliament ' s electoral system . recent poll have show that the lead party currently would win a majority of seat in the next election on less than 30 % of the vote . be it not long overdue that this Government reform the UK Parliament ' s break electoral system and introduce proportional representation , as Welsh Labour be do in the Senedd ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer . the Government have no plan to change the electoral system for UK parliamentary or local election . I welcome this announcement , and I can only speculate about why the Conservatives do not decide to clean up party funding when they be in Government . I want to echo some of the comment about proportional representation . personally , I feel that it be at the heart of many of the problem the country have face in recent time . I absolutely accept that proportional representation be not part of the Government ' s proposal , but will the Minister keep an open mind and look at how other strong democracy around the world have be able to use pr to both strengthen their democracy and create a more collaborative political culture ? I refer my hon . friend to my previous answer on the Labour party ' s position : the Government have no plan to change the electoral system . he be of course right that we should always learn from international experience . we be certainly do that on a range of different agenda , include some of the theme of this strategy , and we will continue to do so . the Prime Minister have previously talk about extend the franchise to include additional foreign national . will the Government take this opportunity to rule out ever extend the franchise to foreign national beyond exist rule ? the focus of this strategy be on eligible voter in this country . the Minister will be aware that the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy , which I chair , have be do a lot of work on defend democracy . I be sure we will welcome the proposal , particularly on illicit finance and crack down on unincorporated association . I gently urge she to look closely at cryptocurrencie , which be clearly the currency of choice for criminal and rogue state . for example , one individual have route £ 13 million into political organisation in this country through such a currency . my hon . friend be right to be concern about new challenge in relation to crypto , and I refer he to my previous answer on this point . we will look very closely at these issue to make sure that loophole be closed , but I reassure he that the current power cover donation through crypto and the change we be make will also include crypto . there be lot in the strategy that the Liberal Democrats and I welcome . could the Minister explain why there be a difference between Westminster election and combine mayoral election ? we know that the majority of the british public want to see the scrapping of first past the post , and we know from when we have a ten - minute rule Bill on this subject during this Parliament that the majority of member in this place want to see the scrapping of first past the post — indeed , we know that a majority of Labour Members want to see the scrapping of first past the post . so why be there a difference between the different type of election ? the hon . Member may have critique of the first - past - the - post system , but it provide a direct relationship between member of the legislature and local constituency , which be really important . the Liberal Democrats , in coalition with the Conservatives for five year , have the opportunity to introduce a referendum , but they lose that referendum . the supplementary voting system be implement on the introduction of both mayoral and police and crime commissioner election . we believe that it be more appropriate for select single - person executive . I declare a former interest as a lawyer specialise in election law . I can say from that previous life that the previous Tory Government leave our election law in an unfair and dangerous state : unfair in that they make it hard for people to vote , and dangerous in that they do nothing to prevent foreign actor from spend million of pound , rouble or dollar to interfere with our democracy . do the Minister agree that it be high time to take robust action to make our democracy safe and fair for everyone , and will she assure the House that this will be a speedy and fair process ? I look forward to use the expertise of colleague — not only in my party but in other — so that we get this right . it be in all our interest to close the loophole that be so dangerous and damaging for our democracy . there be much to welcome in these proposal to enhance our democracy , particularly on the safety of candidate . reform be very much against vote for 16 and 17 - year - old , who , it be interesting to note , be completely split down the middle on this issue . however , I urge the Minister to consider our grave concern with particular regard to postal voting , its security and the risk of personation . I have see people carry bag load of postal vote to a polling station on election day . surely that be completely wrong . I reassure the hon . Gentleman that we take those issue very seriously . personate another voter be a deliberate act of fraud . it completely undermine our democracy and be a serious criminal offence that will continue to be prosecute . if he have example , he should report they to the police . for 14 year , young people in my constituency be frustrate by politician who simply do not listen to their concern on affordable housing , on the climate crisis or on good local job . do the Minister agree that listen to young people and engage they in the process be a key first step in rebuild some of the damage do to our democracy over the 14 year of incompetence we see from the Tories ? my hon . friend make a powerful case for give young people , from the age of 16 , the right to vote and participate in our democracy . young people be the future , and it be vital that we all work together to ensure that they learn about , and can participate in , our political system and our democracy . that be how we will ensure that our democracy be appreciate and that its value and influence , both in this country and globally , be share by the next generation . the Conservative Government seemingly try to do everything possible to destroy trust in politic and to make it hard for people to vote . in my constituency , that lead to just a 49 % turnout at the last election . will the Minister set out more about how the announcement will make it easy for people to engage in our democracy and how the Government will give the next generation a say in the future of our country through give vote at 16 ? it be crucial that we engage elector — both young elector and the million who be not register to vote . we will do careful work to move towards automate voter registration and to ensure that it be a success . it be about make sure that every citizen who be eligible to vote register and be able to vote . a previous parliamentary inquiry into the funding of Northern Ireland political party express a concern about the lack of visibility on how cross - border party — the like of Sinn F é in — manage their fundraising and the difficulty for regulator in verify that no Republic of Ireland , or indeed US - base , fund be use in UK election . it recommend strong audit requirement and a clear separation of cross - jurisdictional finance . will the Minister assure I that these measure will apply equally across all part of the United Kingdom and that regulator outside the United Kingdom will work together to ensure that we do not have those cross - jurisdictional money ? I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be work through the interministerial group , which include the relevant Northern Ireland Minister , to ensure that we introduce change that be consistent with the Good Friday agreement and that recognise specific issue affect different part of the United Kingdom ? I would be very happy to discuss our proposal far with he . in Scotland , where we have vote for 16 and 17 - year - old in council and Scottish Parliament election , I have find that some of the most engaging , respectful and search question have come from those in that age group , whereas in general election a 16 or 17 - year - old ' s response be often , " I ' ll go and see if my mum or dad be in " , or occasionally , " my dad ' s tell I to tell you that he ' s not in . " give how respectful and engage 16 and 17 - year - old be , do the Minister agree that they should have the right to express that engagement at the ballot box ? I could not agree more . as my hon . Friend say , young people be passionate , engage and interested in the issue that affect their life . it be right that they should have the opportunity to participate in our democracy . accord to the late british social attitude survey , 60 % of the british public now support proportional representation . give that mayor will be elect under this system from 2027 onwards , why do the Minister refuse even to consider that fair system so that by the time the next general election come along , voter will have their view more fully and fairly represent ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer on the same question . will my hon . friend reflect on the fact that my experience of be elect under three electoral system — additional member system , single transferable vote and first past the post — suggest that none of they be perfect ? however , there be advantage to first past the post that we should be very careful about do away with . the other two system that I have be elect with serve my constituent far bad than first past the post do . vote for 16 and 17 - year - old be pass by the Scottish Parliament a number of year ago and enable young people to vote in election as of 2016 in Scotland . I be delighted to vote for that measure , as be all member of the Scottish Parliament , so will the scottish Conservatives give a lesson to their colleague at Westminster about why they vote for it in 2016 ? I very much hope that the scottish Conservatives will join we in support vote at 16 . give that Northern Ireland have be use to photo ID for voting since the Electoral Fraud ( Northern Ireland ) Act 2002 , I have see the benefit there of that simple form of accountability . however , difficulty remain with the abuse of the postal vote system . look to Northern Ireland as an evidential example of that , do the Minister intend to make change to ensure that the ability to vote by post be not abuse , as it currently be in some part of Northern Ireland ? I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that I be work with ministerial colleague , include the Northern Ireland Minister , and we be sensitive to the difference in different context . I be happy to continue the dialogue with he . have spend more than a decade tackle financial crime before I come to this place , I welcome the Minister ' s remark and the strategy on election , which will protect our hard - win democracy from foreign interference and which also incorporate demand from the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax , along with ask from the Electoral Commission on political finance rule . do the Minister expect the forthcoming election Bill to be in force before the local election next May ? will company donation be permit only from firm with UK ultimate beneficial owner ? what guidance do she envisage be make available to political party to fulfil their " know your donor " obligation ? on enforcement , do she foresee that the Electoral Commission and the Crown Prosecution Service will require additional resource to fulfil potential obligation under the forthcoming election Bill ? my hon . friend have huge expertise in this area . I be happy to write to he on his specific question , of which there be a number , but I want to reassure he that we will continue to work closely with the Electoral Commission . we want to ensure that the power the commission be give go hand in hand with the support it provide to political party on " know your donor " check and on ensure that we have put in place the appropriate safeguard . I welcome this strategy from the Government . under the previous Government , we see serious issue with mp take thousand of pound from a Russia - link entity , despite the Ministry of Defence raise " significant security concern " . I be concerned that we be still see such issue today . we have see report of Reform UK take ten of thousand of pound from a company whose owner be apparently base overseas . do the Minister agree that this raise the urgent need to tighten donation rule and protect our democracy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; foreign interference in british politic be a grow danger to our democracy and it be right that we tackle it . our change will boost transparency and accountability in politic by close the loophole that allow foreign funding to influence our politic and election . this evolve and sophisticated threat have make it all too easy to funnel illicit money from abroad to political party , which be why we be introduce these check . we will legislate as soon as parliamentary time allow , in this Parliament . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be really important that Members of Parliament be accurate in our statement , and I just want some clarity . the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) mention bag of postal vote , but you will be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , that under the Elections Act 2022 and a subsequent statutory instrument — I serve on its Committee as the shadow Minister for democracy — people handle postal vote will now be limit to handle no more than five postal vote for election , plus their own postal vote . do the hon . Member want to reflect on his statement about people carry multiple bag of postal vote ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . I take it that she have notify the hon . Member mention . indicate assent . obviously , the hon . member ' s point of order be not a matter for the Chair , but she have put it on the record . NHS Pensions : Frontline Patient Care ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care if he will make a statement on NHS pension and the impact of administrative delay on frontline patient care . as the House know , the NHS pension scheme be administer by the NHS Business Services Authority , which be face challenge , as be all public sector pension scheme , as a result of the coalition Government ' s public sector pension reform in 2015 , which in 2018 be find to have be discriminatory — know as the McCloud remedy . the work to remedy that be complex , and much of that I have already detail in a write ministerial statement on 31 March and a subsequent urgent question . it be complex , technical work , and as the NHSBSA begin to produce individual statement , it become clear that its initial estimate of the time need for each one be too low . my write statement of 1 July update the House that the NHSBSA do not meet its deadline to deliver statement to certain class of member by that date and set out the action that I be take . let I be clear that this Government remain absolutely committed to provide affected member with their statement at the early opportunity , and that be what we be do . the authority be develop a revise plan , and I will hold it to account against the new deadline . I meet the chief executive of the authority and be very clear about my disappointment in the progress , my expectation for the authority to remedy the situation for member , and the need to have a more robust assessment of the delivery plan . I also ensure that the independent chair of the NHS pension board be ready to set up an independent review of the delivery plan . I meet she yesterday and be clear that I expect a thorough review of the process and a realistic assessment of delivery , and to hear her initial assessment . she will give her full report after the summer recess . I will set new deadline , include for member who be expect statement this month . I will update the House as soon as possible , of course , both on the progress with the assessment and on the revise deadline . let I be clear that member will not face further financial detriment as a consequence of remediable service statement delay , interest on related pension arrear will be pay at 8 % , and my Department and the authority have already put in place compensation arrangement for direct financial loss that member may have incur . People who have serve in our NHS deserve their due , and we will prioritise member base on need . let I end by reassure the House that there will be no direct impact on frontline care . I will continue to update the House . I declare an interest , for myself and on behalf of the shadow Front - Bench team , as we all have NHS pension . in April , Mr Speaker grant we an urgent question because the Government have no real plan for NHS pension statement . today we return because the Government have now admit in write that a new plan be fail — deadline be miss , then push back , and now we have no idea what they be . just 1 , 359 statement have be issue out of a require total of 381 , 920 — just 0 . 35 % . far still , there be no comment on the remediable pension saving statement . have the Government ' s own delay deadline of July be meet or discuss ? this matter . hundred of thousand of frontline doctor be not get their pension statement . the British Medical Association be clear that senior doctor be step back from extra work for fear of unexpected tax liability . in short , take on extra work risk an extra tax bill of thousand of pound . when I raise this in April , the Minister retort that I could have ask about the impact on service of cancel the strike . well , I will do so now , as the strike be back on . it will be the senior doctor who have to pick up the slack — the very doctor who be avoid extra shift for fear of the tax . if they will not take on the extra work for fear of the heavy tax burden , we have a huge problem . this should be a priority for the Government , especially as we plan for winter pressure . what will the Minister do to remedy the situation with RSS ? what will she do regard rpss ? minister can not just announce new deadline and then miss they , so would she be kind enough to publish a delivery plan ? finally , she say that the Government have faith in the NHS Business Services Authority . be that still the case ? will she demand that the Pensions Regulator step up and expedite its investigation , give that the referral be make in December 2024 ? in the end , doctor be count on she , and so be their patient . as I outline in my initial response and far to the write ministerial statement , we have ask for an independent review of the process and will report back as soon as possible with a realistic deadline for that . with regard to the strike , we will continue to be open to discuss the avoidance of those strike , and I hope that the opposition will support we in that . give that the summer recess be imminent , will the Minister use this opportunity to update the House on the number of additional appointment and , more importantly , the number by which the NHS waiting list have fall under this government ? do she agree that it would be very nice if the conservative party address the crisis in which they leave our NHS ? it be a mess that this Labour Government be proud to be clear up . I thank my hon . friend , who be a superb advocate for his constituent . I meet he again yesterday as he advocate for service in his constituency — that be the focus of Labour Members . he be absolutely right ; as I say in my statement , this be part of the overall mess that we inherit from the Conservatives . as I say in my previous response on this issue , the problem outline by Lord Darzi be wide and deep . it be still shocking , after a year in government , to be face with the level of disaster that be leave to we after a complete abdication of responsibility for sort out the problem . we will continue to focus on get more of the appointment that people so need and on reduce waiting list , which be what our constituent expect . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for come to the House to answer this urgent question . these administrative delay be deeply worrying . they make financial planning for those affect very difficult and , more importantly , stop doctor take on additional work for the NHS as they could face large and unknown tax penalty . that be highlight at the start of the year , when 4 , 000 nhs staff miss out on pension tax compensation after administrative failing . this be have a direct impact on patient care , so how will the Minister reassure NHS staff regard their pension entitlement , and when can they expect to see the compensation the Minister mention to encourage they back into the workforce ? can she assure the House that the Government be take step to prevent doctor with miss pension record from be unfairly penalise ? can she tell we how the Government will address the 156 , 000 year of miss pension datum for GPs ? finally , will the major reorganisation of the NHS — especially the 50 % cut to the organisation that oversee local health service — potentially compound this problem ? I thank the hon . Lady for those question . she highlight a number of important issue regard the complexity for the NHS Business Services Authority of deal with this . there be a large number of high earner in this scheme . with regard to tax liability , that make the system complex , as do the movement of doctor throughout the system in their career . one issue I discuss with the independent reviewer yesterday be the need to ensure there be a technical look at solution to issue such as missing year . the hon . Lady be right to highlight that change make a difference to follow people ' s career through the system . there be wide lesson , which I have already start to discuss with the reviewer , about how we make the good use of technology so that we can track people through their career and give confidence to the current workforce that we be address this not just for the cohort who have immediate issue but for the future . that be the sort of action this Government be take . we do not do stick plaster . we be look at this very seriously . I declare an interest , as a trustee of the parliamentary contributory pension fund . . many people in the public sector receive a significant pension contribution , but they be not aware of its value . the Pension Schemes Bill currently go through Parliament present an opportunity to place on someone ' s pay cheque and pay offer the annual value of that incredibly important contribution to a public sector pension fund . that be something that very few people in the private sector be now able to enjoy , and it feel like it be undervalue by those who benefit from it . will she consider take that opportunity ? I thank the hon . Lady for that really constructive suggestion . in my discussion with the NHSBSA , the reviewer and official at the Department , I have raise similar issue . I be a member of the NHS pension scheme and the parliamentary pension scheme . I tell my young people that this be a really valuable asset , and I encourage my constituent who be look for job in the NHS to consider the pension scheme , because people sometimes do not look at it immediately . we should look at way to encourage people to take part in the pension scheme — particularly for low earner , it be a really valuable and stable contribution — and the value of it from the public purse should be well know . I be not across the detail of the hon . Lady ' s point on the Pension Schemes Bill , but I will talk with my colleague across Government about how we can look to do that and come back to she , because I agree that it be a really valuable thing — it reward the contribution of public service , and we should make the most of it . I would like to take this opportunity to put my thank on the record to the Minister . I have speak to she outside this place about the money we have secure for remove reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete at Harrogate district hospital , which I have be campaign on for year . it be great have state - of - the - art hospital facility , but if we do not have the staff there , it be all a bit moot . I want to press the Minister on the concern raise by colleague that people might not come back or take on additional hour in the NHS as a result of this issue . will she commit to update member throughout the recess on progress on this matter ? I congratulate the hon . Gentleman on , yet again , shoehorn in a reference to his local hospital , for which he do a great job . People be determined to work in and support the national health service . we take remedy confidence in pension seriously . I will not give further deadline before we hear from the assessor . I have ask she to come back and make a very clear statement as soon as possible after the summer recess . I will then be happy to update the House . come forward to work in the NHS be a matter of choice for individual , and we particularly want to work with consultant to ensure that their career progression be the good it can be . we very much value their work in the service . with the British Medical Association set to strike , and with the Health Secretary reduce to plead with it not to , thousand of patient be set to have their appointment cancel . can the Minister assure the House that she will grip this issue so that senior doctor do not also reduce their hour ? and will she rule out bonus for NHS Business Services Authority executive ? we be work very closely to ensure that resident doctor do not go on strike . we be very clear that we can not negotiate on pay this year , but we will work with everybody to improve condition . some of those condition be shocking , and we want to work constructively with they to avoid disruptive strike action . the Daily Telegraph report in April that a quarter of doctor have reduce their overtime to avoid potential five - figure tax bill , and NHS capacity have be reduce by about 10 % as a result . this have be raise many time when I have be out and about door - knock across Keighley and Ilkley . what step will the Government take to rectify this absurd situation , which be prevent doctor from work more to reduce waiting list ? the hon . Gentleman highlight yet another mess that we inherit due to his party ' s lack of proper engagement with the workforce over the last decade to resolve the disincentive to make the system work more effectively . make the system work more efficiently and more effectively be a key part of our 10 - year plan announce , I think , only last week — the day keep roll by . we not only involve the public in those conversation but have valuable conversation and receive insight from all staff group . there be a real spirit of optimism that everyone want to pull together to ensure that the incentive be right for staff at all level — over 1 . 5 million of they — to make the NHS fit for the future , and that be what we be focus on . the Minister know that I have a keen interest in NHS reorganisation and the impact on frontline service , particularly in Mid Bedfordshire . give the failure of NHSBSA , have consideration be give to reorganise that authority ? I also repeat the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) : give the failure , will the Minister rule out bonus for the NHSBSA ' s leadership ? I be totally focused on remedy this situation and learn from the mistake . if further action be require , I will happily update the House at that point . my absolute focus at the moment be on get everybody in that organisation and the independent review focus on sort out the pension situation for those who have already lose out . as always , I thank the Minister very much for her answer . I recently read an article that refer to the mechanism of the NHS pension scheme as a " Ponzi scheme " , which give I great concern about the scheme ' s ability to cope in 20 year ' time . how do the Government and the Minister intend to convert the transitional arrangement in place since 2019 — of top up pension from another source — into permanent and transparent arrangement so that we can stop rob Peter to pay Paul and ensure that those who be work 70 hour a week in 2025 have a real pension and retirement fund in 2065 ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I to stray far from the urgent question , but he raise an important point , far to the one raise by the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , who be a trustee of the parliamentary contributory pension fund . the NHS pension scheme be an extremely important part of the reward package that NHS staff at all level absolutely deserve . we want to ensure that it , like the rest of the NHS , be fit for the future . if hon . member have suggestion for how to make it work well , as part of ongoing discussion , I be happy to hear they . business of the House will the Leader of the House give the House the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 21 July include : Monday 21 July — general debate on the 80th anniversary of victory over Japan . Tuesday 22 July — the Sir David Amess summer adjournment debate . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the summer recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 22 July and return on Monday 1 September . the business for the week commence 1 September will include : Monday 1 September — general debate on regional transport inequality , follow by general debate on devolution in Scotland . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 2 September — second reading of the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill . Wednesday 3 September — opposition day ( 10th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition . subject to be announce . Thursday 4 September — consideration of Lords amendment to the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill . Friday 5 September — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 8 September include : Monday 8 September — consideration of Lords amendment to the Renters ' Rights Bill . far to the date that have already be announce for the conference recess , when the House will rise at the close of business on Tuesday 16 September and return on Monday 13 October , Members may also wish to know that , subject to the progress of business , the House will rise for the November recess at the close of business on Wednesday 5 November and return on Tuesday 11 November . the House will rise for the Christmas recess at the close of business on Thursday 18 December and return on Monday 5 January . the House will rise for the February recess at the close of business on Thursday 12 February and return on Monday 23 February . the House will rise for the Easter recess at the close of business on Thursday 26 March and return on Monday 13 April . the House will rise for the early May bank holiday at the close of business on Thursday 30 April and return on Tuesday 5 May . the House will rise for the Whitsun recess at the close of business on Thursday 21 May and return on Monday 1 June . and the House will rise for the summer recess at the close of business on Thursday 16 July 2026 . where do we go from there ? I call the shadow Leader of the House . I doubt if the Leader of the House have ever give a more popular statement to the House of Commons . more seriously , this be a welcome development as it will give guidance to colleague and their family , and I be sure it will be widely welcome across the House , so I thank she for that . I understand that Robert Gibbs , the act director of catering service , will be leave on Friday , after 25 year in this House . one shudder to think of the thousand of member of the House of Commons and their staff whose life will have be enrich by the joy of eat the food of the catering service under his command , and we thank he very much for his service . I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in thank he for his work . we be get close to the end of term and I want to thank all the staff for their service , and , of course , you , Madam Deputy Speaker , the Speaker and the other Deputy Speakers , and the Clerks for the resilience , courage , determination and poker face that they have keep through all the business question that we have have since the beginning of the year . it may come as slightly more of a surprise to the House that I also want to thank the Leader of the House . no one who have not hold that position understand the amount of work that be involve in scheduling and manage the business of this House , let alone the amount of work involve in scheduling and manage the Prime Minister and Cabinet colleague . the Leader of the House distinguish herself with her very graceful response to my remark about my father some month ago , and I thank she again for that . I also thank she for her engagement and humour and , I must say , more than a few groan - induce pun , of which we will undoubtedly see considerably more this morning and with which she have deal with question from colleague across all part of this House . I hope I may register that it be a slight sadness to I that the Leader of the House have not be willing to answer my own question in the same spirit . I ask these question not in a personal capacity , but as the spokesman for his Majesty ' s official Opposition , whose function be , after all , to hold the Government to account . the refusal to answer genuine , sensible question be actually a discourtesy not just to the House , but to our wide constitutional framework and ultimately the supreme source of sovereign authority in this country : the King in Parliament . I think any fair - minded person review our exchange would conclude that my question be almost always direct at some public purpose , and it would undoubtedly improve business question and the accountability and authority of the Leader of the House if she be able to engage with they . in the same spirit , I will raise some serious question about what the Government ' s position be with regard to Northern Ireland veteran . as the Leader of the House will know , hundred and thousand of man and woman go to Northern Ireland not of their own accord , but under order and in a chain of command on the Queen ' s business , to combat the most serious terrorist organisation in the world at the time and to protect human life and human society . many of those veteran , include many member of the special force , can not respond to the terrible injustice be do to they . almost exactly a year ago , barely three week after the election , the Government decide to abandon the appeal to the Supreme Court to uphold the key section of the legacy Act against a High Court judgment in Northern Ireland . in the veteran debate on Monday , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland say that those section be " unlawful " as a result of the judgment . yesterday , in Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister himself say twice that the legacy Act have be " strike down " . unfortunately , those statement be both untrue and misleading . there can be no doubt what the law be on this topic . a succession of the most senior judge in recent british history — Judges Steyn , Hope , Bingham , Hale and Reed among they — have make it absolutely clear that a declaration of incompatibility do not mean that the law be unlawful or have be strike down . as the then Senior Law Lord , Lord Bingham , say in 2004 , in such case the validity of the law " remain unaffected " . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland be no lawyer , but he should understand that basic point , give his job . the Prime Minister , however , have be a barrister for 38 year , and a human right lawyer for most of that time . it be inconceivable that he do not understand the distinction . to that extent , he be , whether deliberately or inadvertently , mislead the House . the Secretary of State appear to say that he have abandon these appeal on political ground . it be plain that the Government be split and have be unable to develop a satisfactory legal remedy in the 12 month since they abandon the appeal , leave thousand of veteran , many in their 70 and old , expose to legal harassment , anxiety and trauma . I put two serious and substantive question to the Leader of the House . as the Leader of the House , in uphold the practice , tradition and honour of this House , will she ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the Prime Minister to correct those false and misleading statement to the House ? when will we see legislation to address the legal gap that the Government ' s decision to abandon these legacy Act appeal have create ? before the Leader of the House respond , in case I misheard , let I say that the shadow Leader of the House know we do not accuse colleague of mislead the House . " Inadvertent " be the language . I be very pleased to announce the recess date for the whole of the next academic year . that be one modernisation that I say I would bring in to give colleague more certainty a year in advance , and I be pleased that we have be able to announce those date today . as the House go into recess next week , I join the shadow Leader of the House in thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as well as Mr Speaker , the other Deputy Speakers and all the House staff , for all the incredible work they do for we all year round . in the spirit of the shadow Leader of the House ' s comment , I also thank he . we work closely behind the scene on a number of board and committee , and I always find his contribution to be valuable and consider . I share his comment about Robert Gibbs . as the shadow Leader of the House say , he be the act director of catering service , and will be leave the House after 25 year of service . he have definitely keep we all very well feed — perhaps , at time , too well feed — and I wish he all the good . I will also take this opportunity to mention that I know many member across the House be deeply concerned by the use of a super - injunction that have the effect of keep important policy and Government development from this House . as Leader of the House of Commons , the fact that this situation continue for so long make I deeply uncomfortable and concerned . we have long - establish mechanism and Committees for scrutinise secret and sensitive information in such case , and as the Prime Minister say yesterday , the previous Government have some serious question to answer , include about why the House be keep in the dark . I look forward to the Defence Committee and other Committees look into these issue . the shadow Leader of the House ask I to answer his question . I be always happy to do so when he bring they to I , and he have raise some question today about the Northern Ireland legacy Act . it be important that these issue be discuss sensitively , and that we work together on they without raise the temperature or use irresponsible rhetoric about they , because we all have profound respect for our veteran and owe a debt to they . this be a complex situation , and we need to resolve it . the shadow Leader of the House might disagree , but the previous Government ' s legacy Act be find to be unlawful and unworkable , and be now subject to further court action . that mean that currently no one be protect by that Act ; neither do it give people the justice they want , because there would be so much legal uncertainty about do so . that be why our priority be find a way forward that give veteran , survivor and community confidence in the process . we will take our time to do this , and of course we will regularly update the House as we consider how to do so . today mark the year ' s anniversary of the first labour monarch ' s speech in 15 year . the story of our Labour Government be tell through the legislation we have already bring in . we be stand up for ordinary work people against the vested interest that hold our country back , give people power , new right and opportunity and make the powerful more accountable . this have already lead to real change and real - life impact , and if you will forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker , the House might want to think about a few of those today . we have stop water boss take bonus for pollute our water ; we have bring south Western Railway back into public ownership , with more to come ; we have save the job of steelworker in Scunthorpe ; and we have ban zombie knife and ninja sword . soon , off - road vehicle will be seize and crush , and shoplifting will once again be take seriously . we have put fan and community back at the heart of our national game . we be end no - fault eviction and ensure renter have right over their landlord . we be cap the cost of school uniform and have introduce free breakfast club , and we have change the right to buy so that council can build more social home . we be ensure that bus be run for people , not for profit , and we have cap bus fare . we have increase the national living wage — the big increase since it be introduce — and very soon , we will see an end to exploitative zero - hour contract and it will be against the law to fire and rehire . there be much more , but I will not go on . it have also be a year since my first business question . in that time , I have answer over 1 , 700 question . I have have countless invitation to caf é s and pub — more of those , please . I have also have some invitation to sporting event and run — less of those , thank you very much . we have hear about the wonderful people in community in all corner of our country , who we be all here to represent . there be healthy competition about who represent the most beautiful , most active , most charitable , most visit , worst connect and most congested constituency , but I be sure colleague will allow I to abuse my position at the Dispatch Box today to say that Manchester Central be obviously the good constituency overall . talk of which , I could not let this opportunity pass without tell the House that Manchester be buzz right now with its bucket hat , its music and even parka in this hot weather , as we have all come together to celebrate the Oasis reunion . as we say , " manchester vibe in the area ! " let we not forget that when Oasis be last perform at Heaton Park , it be under a Labour Government . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] the shadow Leader of the House invite I to give the House a few more groan pun , so if he will forgive I , " some might say " that this Government have " the Masterplan " for change . I know it have not be a great year for the Conservatives since their big election defeat in history , but perhaps they need to " stop cry your heart out " , " Don ' t look back in Anger " and hope that Reform " Fade Away " . talk of which , in the past year we have see reform come on the scene in the House of Commons . some of their mp have have well attendance rate than other . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) be , as usual , probably on a beach " half the World Away " . [ hon . member : " oh . " ] no ? there be more . [ interruption . ] come on , there be one last one . let we hope that this Labour Government " Live forever " . rise — well , that be interesting . [ laughter . ] to correct the record , Sussex Weald be the great constituency on Earth . I call Perran Moon . Meur ra , Madam Deputy Speaker . in Cornwall , the word dreckly mean at some unspecified time in the future — a bit like ma ñ ana . I have learn since arrive in this place that there be an equivalent parliamentary expression : " in due course " . of the five celtic language , which include Manx Gaelic , only the cornish language do not have part III minority language status . can the Leader of the House advise I how I can get a Minister to tell I — without use the word dreckly , ma ñ ana or in due course — when this ridiculous cornish language anomaly will be rectify ? my hon . friend be a powerful representative for Cornwall and his constituency . I will not use that phrase for he , but I will ensure that a Minister give he a more immediate response about when we can see action on the cornish language . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I join the shadow Leader of the House and the Leader of the House in thank you , the other Deputy Speakers and Mr Speaker , as well as the Clerks of the House and the House staff , for all the amazing work that they do to support we in our job . it be not an exaggeration to say that we would not be able to do it without all of they and all of you . I also join the shadow Leader of the House in thank the Leader of the House for the response that she give to business question , which I see every single week . it have be a pleasure to get to know both of they on the various Committees and board that we serve on , and I thank they for that . turn to a slightly more serious matter , last week the Secretary of State for Transport announce that the Government have cancel the A12 widen scheme between Chelmsford and Colchester . that be incredibly disappointing news and a real blow to my Chelmsford constituent , Essex resident and the east of England as a whole . the A12 be a crucial link for community across Essex , which support logistic to the major international port and airport in the region . it be also dangerously congest . the scheme would have address both of those problem and improve the journey of the approximately 90 , 000 vehicle that travel on the road every day . more critically , the cancellation ' s impact on house building could be profound . local plan , include that of Chelmsford city council , be reliant on the A12 widen scheme go ahead . the cancellation could severely hamper the building of an estimate 55 , 000 new home in the area . with Labour pledge to build 1 . 5 million new home by the end of this Parliament , this issue cut across party line . while I appreciate the financial constraint under which the Treasury be operate , it be notable that the two major road scheme that be cancel in the recent announcement be both in the east of England , yet this region be a net contributor to the UK economy and have huge growth potential . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretaries of State for Transport and for Housing , Communities and Local Government to meet I and a cross - party group of mps so that we can discuss how we might still find way to move forward with this vital project that will help the Government to deliver on their promise ? I thank the hon . Lady for work with I over the last year in her role as the shadow Leader of the House for the Liberal Democrats . we work very closely together on the Modernisation Committee , the House of Commons Commission and a number of other Committees and board , and I feel like she have be here for a long time , because she have really get into the detail of some of the issue , particularly the restoration and renewal programme . she have dedicate a huge amount of her time and energy to that , and I thank she for that . hopefully , it can finally move forward . now that she be shadow Leader of the House for the Liberal Democrats , I hope we see a change in MO over the recess , and that we do not get the first press release call for a recall of Parliament a week yesterday , as we generally do . if she could arrange that , I be sure that she would be very popular with the House . the hon . Lady raise a really important issue . we must make sure that we have the transport infrastructure that we need in our community , especially to deliver our ambitious house building programme . she will be aware that the previous Government announce a raft of project — include some in her constituency and in Essex — without have any plan to pay for they . we have have to look at all those project and make sure that only those that be fully cost and affordable be give the green light . I hope she understand that , but I recognise that she , her constituent and many in the surround area will be frustrate about A12 expansion not progress as they have hope . I be very happy to arrange for she to have a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss option for the way forward . sometimes , when the pun keep come , you just have to " roll with it " . in my constituency , Braehead community garden be a remarkable 2 - acre , community - lead project where resident grow fruit and vegetable in raise bed and polytunnel . it also have an apiary , a workshop and a 30 kw solar array . it host pumpkin festival and flower show , and it be once call the UK ' s " good community space " by the Society of Garden Designers . this year , it celebrate its 10th birthday . just 2 mile away , in Fallin , a new community garden open this year and be off to a strong start . will the Leader of the House join I in thank the remarkable volunteer at both project for all that they do , and will she make time for a debate on the value of community garden to wellbee , food education and local life ? I suspect that I know the answer to my next question : volunteer be now weed , so will she join I to do a spot of weed , in order to give they a break ? my hon . friend have give a very good audition for parliamentary pun of the year . it be probably well than most of mine — but that be not hard , be it ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate all those involve in the Braehead community garden project . it sound like a really wonderful project , and he be absolutely right to say that gardening , and get people outdoors and active , bring so much to our community , in term of wellbee and tackle issue around food poverty and the like . I may be up for a bit of weed , when I have time . maybe I will go on gardening leave at some point in the future . I call Martin Vickers to speak on behalf of the Backbench Business Committee . the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee send his apology , and have ask I to report on his behalf . the Leader of the House have already draw attention to next week ' s debate , particularly the Sir David Amess debate , which I urge member to participate in . Sir David use to rattle off about 20 issue in the space of 10 minute , and that provide he with a press release for every other day of the recess . it be a tactic that I can recommend to member . I thank the Leader of the House for give Government time for the victory over Japan Day debate ; that debate be originally apply for through the Backbench Business Committee . she draw attention to the debate in the Chamber on 1 September . I also draw attention to the fact that in Westminster Hall that week , there will be debate on defibrillator access , the adoption and special guardian support fund , and the future of terrestrial television . turn to my question , I be sure that the Leader of the House will be familiar with the Welfare of Animals ( Transport ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 . if she be not , may I ask she to look at they ? they affect a major business in my constituency . the hon . member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) have already pray against the regulation , and I have add my name to that prayer . may I ask the Leader of the House to approach the relevant Minister in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and ask for a delay to the implementation of the regulation to allow great consultation with the industry ? I thank the hon . member for deputise for the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . he and the Chair be both regular attender ; until today , I think the Chair have not miss any of my session , apart from the one after Tottenham win the Europa league , which be a once - in - a - lifetime event for he . the hon . member be absolutely right to draw hon . member ' attention to the Sir David Amess debate . I strongly recommend that those who be not in the House with Sir David look back through Hansard at his speech in those debate , or view they . the pre - summer Adjournment debate carry his name for a reason . he really do make the very good use of it , and he be a role model that I be sure many will want to follow next week . the hon . Member ask I about the statutory instrument bring forward under , I think , the welfare of animal legislation . I have not study that statutory instrument , but I will ensure that a Minister be in touch with he directly to discuss his concern and make sure they be address . member who be frequent flyer at business question may contradict I when I say that Stafford be the good constituency , but I do not think that any would contradict its be the most gridlocked , so I thank the Leader of the House for her answer last week . I have recently see a huge surge in casework from constituent who be unable to access blood test ; there be long delay . there be 20 venue in north Staffordshire at which to get blood test , but only one in south Staffordshire . our area be be leave behind , and it be just not fair on my constituent . please could we have a debate in Government time on access to primary care ? I thank my hon . friend for be a regular attender ; she use these session to great effect on behalf of her constituent . I be sorry to hear about the difficulty that her constituent face in access basic service such as routine blood test ; that be clearly not good enough . our 10 - year plan will expand the availability of appointment — we get in another 4 million gp appointment since the election last year — as well as opening hour and community diagnostic service . I hope her constituent will see an improvement soon . I would like to make the Leader of the House aware of the serious delay to clad remediation face by resident of the axis apartment in Mercury Gardens , Romford . it be a common problem across the country . resident of the axis apartment have endure year of uncertainty since fire safety issue be identify nearly four year ago , follow the Grenfell Tower fire . despite the building ' s management agent apply for permission for remediation work over a year ago , the Building Safety Regulator have still not approve the application . this regulatory delay have leave leaseholder trap ; they be unable to remortgage or sell their home , and face ever - increase insurance premium and unaffordable safety cost . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government to make an urgent statement on this matter , so that my constituent , and other across the country face similar problem , can escape financial ruin and move on with their life ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . member ' s constituency . it be one with which I be extremely familiar ; in my constituency , dozen and dozen of building face many of the same problem . as he say , there have be very serious teething challenge for the Building Safety Regulator in process its caseload . that be why the Secretary of State recently announce some quite big change to its leadership , capacity and management ; they be lay before this House two or three week ago . I be confident that will speed up the case he describe . we have a remediation action plan as well , and the Secretary of State will come to the House soon to keep we update . in April , I raise the issue of the need for blood donation , and of people from diverse community be turn away . in response to parliamentary question about diversity and blood referral , I initially receive datum , provide by NHS blood and Transplant , state that 70 % of black blood donor be be turn away for low haemoglobin level . the Department of Health and Social Care withdraw that datum , state that it be incorrect . two month and a point of order later , I receive new datum say that 40 % of black and mixed - heritage blood donor be be turn away for low haemoglobin level , but that datum be not even for the same period . the NHS need three blood donation every single minute for people in emergency situation , woman who have give birth , and people with blood cancer and condition such as sickle cell , the fast grow genetic condition in the country , whose sufferer require specifically match blood , if they receive donation . on NHS blood and transplant ' s website , it indicate that it can meet that demand only 50 % of the time . when we return from recess , may we have an urgent debate in Government time on what happen the other 50 % of the time ? receive mismatch blood be very , very serious . with increase demand , we simply can not afford to turn away blood donor , particularly those from diverse community . I thank my hon . friend for raise that incredibly important issue . I be really sorry to hear that she have have confusing , incorrect or slow response to parliamentary question or correspondence from the Department of Health and Social Care . I will certainly take that up for she . she be right that we need as many people as possible give blood , especially from diverse community , because we have blood supply shortage . we need to break down the barrier to do so , which be why her question be so important . I will ensure that she get a full response . with no garden waste or recycle collection since the start of the year , all - out bin collection strike now enter day 129 , and no sign of an agreement , Birmingham ' s bin strike be have an impact on not just the resident and reputation of the UK ' s second city , but on the broad west midland . we have have radio silence from the Deputy Prime Minister and those on the Labour Benches , and not a squeak from Mayor Parker . before the House rise for the summer recess , and give the incredibly hot weather , will the Leader of the House urge her ministerial colleague to make a statement to the House , and to update we on how we will fix the problem ? perhaps she will do well than I , because I have be try and fail to secure an urgent question all week . this be an issue of great concern to the right hon . Lady , her constituent and many other across the House . the Government ' s priority be , and have always be , Birmingham ' s resident and deal with the issue . we have work closely and intensively with the council to ensure rubbish collection have continue , and to clean up the street for resident and in the interest of public health . we remain in close contact with the council . we want an end to the dispute as soon as possible , which be why we continue to urge the union to come to the table and engage in conversation constructively . this morning , we hear the incredible news that a novel in vitro fertilisation procedure , develop at Newcastle University , have result in eight baby be bear free from mitochondrial disease . that be life - change for family affect by this devastating and previously incurable condition . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Dame Chi Onwurah ) and I pay tribute to all the academic and clinician who , over many year , have play a vital role in develop these treatment and support patient . in the course of my work on rare disease , I have have the chance to visit the centre , and to see the research and clinical work that it do on mitochondrial disease , which affect so many condition . may we have a debate in Government time , please , on the north - east ' s role in advance world - lead , patient - lead , life science research ? first of all , I thank my hon . friend the Members for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) , and for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Dame Chi Onwurah ) , for all the campaigning and excellent work that they have do on this issue . I be sure it bring a smile to every member , as it do to I last night and this morning , to have good news on the airwave for a change . it just go to show , as my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon and Consett say , how world - lead we be in this country , and in the north - east , on some of these issue . the mitochondrial donation treatment be groundbreake . I remember when we discuss the issue in Parliament ; we grapple with the ethical issue , but see the result come through year later , I think we can all be pleased that we take the right decision back then . the Leader of the House mention the statement by the Secretary of State for Defence about the super - injunction . the Defence Committee will undoubtedly embark on an inquiry , but before we do , can the Leader of the House state very clearly the Government ' s position ? be it ever right to use a super - injunction ? as I say , the Defence Secretary , the Prime Minister , the rest of the Government and I be deeply uncomfortable about how the situation unfold . many of we do not even know about this until this week . the House be keep in the dark , which it should not be at any time . I understand the intention , which be to try to keep people safe , but I think some of the action could have be different , and the House could have be inform of some of the issue . we look at thing on a case - by - case basis , but I hope the hon . Gentleman will recognise that we be deeply uncomfortable and concerned about how the matter progress . I be sure the Leader of the House will agree that grassroots community football club , such as North Sunderland and Berwick Rangers in my constituency , play a vital role in the development of elite footballer , such as Lucy Bronze , who hopefully tonight will go " Supersonic " in her game for the Lionesses in the quarter - final of the Euros . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate player such as Lucy Bronze , who start out at another football club in my constituency , Alnwick Town , and grant a debate in Government time on how we can ensure that the money from elite football get to grassroots football to develop the Lucy Bronzes of the future ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Lucy Bronze and the rest of the woman ' s Euros team . we be all get behind they in the come day . he be absolutely right that our grassroots club , whether in man ' s or woman ' s football , be the engine of the football pyramid . that be why I be really pleased , and I be sure the whole House — well , those of we on the Labour Benches , anyway — will be pleased that the Football Governance Bill have now pass all its stage and will hopefully soon receive Royal Assent . we be put fan and community club right back at the heart of the football pyramid , which be as it should be . a couple of week ago at a Quaker Asylum and Refugee Network event in Harrogate , I meet constituent who come to the UK from Afghanistan under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy scheme , and who still have family live in Afghanistan . they show I photo of their love one , some smile and some a lot more brutal and bleak after attack they have face . the statement early this week focus rightly on the Afghanistan Response Route scheme and the associated super - injunction . will the Leader of the House liaise with her Cabinet colleague and look for further opportunity for mp to meet relevant Ministers to discuss exist application under the ARAP scheme , such as those of my constituent and their family ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that issue on behalf of the afghan refugee in his constituency . he be absolutely right that the UK make a commitment — the right commitment — to honour our moral obligation that we owe to those Afghans who stand with we through all those year of conflict and terror . he will be aware that , to date , around 36 , 000 Afghans have resettle in the UK under Government scheme — a significant number . we have to keep the scheme under constant review and assess the risk to those in country such as Afghanistan . that be why we have take the decision we have to close some of the scheme recently , but I will ensure he get a response from a Minister . on Monday , I host the second Corby and East Northamptonshire special educational need roundtable , and on Tuesday we have send 4 Dad in Parliament . parent and professional keep tell I how important early year support and intervention be for child with special educational need . with the government rightly roll out good Start family hub across the country , include one in Corby and one in East Northamptonshire , will the Leader of the House back those call to make sure the hub give real early intervention and support for family with special educational need ? I think special educational need be the issue that have be raise most with I in the year of business question I have answer . I thank my hon . friend for raise it today . he be absolutely right that early intervention , early diagnosis and early support be absolutely critical , and that be what the Best Start family hub be all about . at the moment , the special educational need system be adversarial , and it take far too long for people to get the kind of support that they need . in the end , that do not give we good outcome ; it cost more , and it mean we have to take more serious intervention later on . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this matter today . the SNP Government ' s fire and rescue service be consult on plan to downgrade Hawick fire station from 24 / 7 cover to weekday daytime hour only . thousand of people locally have sign a petition , with resident concern that these proposal could put life at risk . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to the hard - work local fire crew and in call on the SNP Government to properly fund the scottish fire and rescue service so that fire station like Hawick be not put at risk ? I thank the hon . gentleman for be such a doughty champion for his constituency and for the many invitation I have have to his constituency over the past year , which I will take he up on at some stage . he have previously raise with I the shocking situation with the scottish fire and rescue service , and I be sorry to hear of this downgrade today . I absolutely join he in press the Scottish Government to take heed of his call . they be give their big ever settlement in the recent Budget ; there really be no excuse for not properly support and fund the scottish fire and rescue service . I be happy and so proud that the Dialogue Express Caf é have recently open in my constituency on the Carpenters estate . operate out of a refurbish train carriage , the caf é be a vibrant community hub that combine the experience of enjoy a great coffee with learn and interact through british Sign Language . customer will see a video of how to order a drink in sign language , and can then communicate with the barista , some of whom be deaf and some of whom be hear . as one of the first ever Labour candidate to make a video in sign language more than a decade ago , it be something close to my heart . british Sign Language be not just a language , but a gateway to learning and opportunity for thousand . it be part of deaf identity and culture — one we should all embrace and be part of . I be so pleased that in Stratford and Bow and Newham council , we see this at first hand . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Dialogue Express Caf é , its founder Hakan , as well as Karissa , Victor and the whole team , and agree that theirs be a trailblaze example of how to celebrate BSL and to celebrate and create visibility of deaf culture and deaf pride ? I could not have put that well myself . what a great tribute my hon . friend have pay to the Dialogue Express Caf é in her constituency and to its work in bring people together , break down barrier , create opportunity for those from the deaf community , celebrate deaf culture and identity and celebrate BSL . I will dig out her video — perhaps we could all have a bit of training on how to order a coffee in sign language . in a few week ' time , more than 500 Kate Bush fan from up and down the UK and across the world will descend on to the moor near Haworth for what be bill as the " the most Wuthering Heights Day ever " . this year , the mass wuther be double up as a protest against environmentally damaging proposal to place a huge onshore wind farm at the very heart of Bront ë country , damage protect peatland . I do not know whether the Leader of the House be a Kate Bush fan , but will she consider join the hundred on the moor for " the most Wuthering Heights Day ever " , and do she agree with I , climate expert , nature organisation and the Bront ë Society that destroy carbon - rich peatland in the name of net zero make net zero sense ? well , maybe we will be come up that hill — be that one of Kate Bush ' s song ? I do not know ; I have just think of that on the hoof , so it might be wrong . the hon . Gentleman raise an important issue , which get raise with I a lot , about the balance we need to strike between our goal to be a clean energy superpower , ensure that we have energy independence and security go forward — that have mean lift the moratorium on onshore wind — and , at the same time , the need to protect our nature and community . we be seek to get that balance right . I will ensure the hon . Gentleman get an update from the relevant Minister . this week I join the Youth Futures Foundation for the launch of a new report , which reveal the root cause of decline mental health among young people . the report identify four key factor : not just social medium and smartphone use , but financial insecurity , decline sleep quality and cut to youth service . give the urgent need to address this crisis among young people , include the link with unemployment , would the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time , after recess , on young people ' s mental health ? will she also join I in wish all the young people finish school in Bangor Aberconwy this week a very brilliant summer ? I will certainly join my hon . friend in wish all the young people and child finish school this week in her constituency and elsewhere a full and happy summer , which I hope they will get . she rightly raise the issue of child ' s mental health . she will know that we inherit a dire situation , especially post covid , and that a whole generation of our child have be let down on mental health support . we be determined to put that right ; it be a priority for this Government . that be why we be put in specialist mental health professional in every school and ensure support for a million more child this year . we will be do a lot more to tackle this issue in coming month . I refer the House to my registered interest as co - chair of the justice union parliamentary group . substantial change to skilled worker visa threshold will automatically come into effect on 22 July under a procedural anomaly that permit no opportunity for debate . trade union have warn that thousand of the UK Government ' s own staff could face deportation because their pay will now be too low . that include prison officer , whose go rate appear to fall short by at least £ 3 , 000 . I note my early - day motion 1686 , which I table against the statement of change . [ that the statement of Changes in Immigration Rules , HC 997 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 1 July , be disapprove . ] will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to scrutinise those decision ? otherwise , how will that scrutiny be do ? these issue be lay before the House and scrutinise by the House , but I will ensure that the relevant Minister respond to the right hon . Lady . we have have to get net migration down from record level of nearly a million a year over the last year of the previous Conservative Government , which be unacceptably high and put pressure on our housing and service . that be why we have have to look at the appropriate level of pay and income and the skill that this country need in order to ensure we be give skilled worker visa to people in the area we need and not give visa where british worker could fill those role . last week I have the privilege of visit the outstanding Red Watch at Eccles fire station , where officer ' professionalism and dedication be plain to see as they talk I through their lifesave work . the station be home to one of only two specialist water incident unit across Greater Manchester , which can often be call upon as a national asset , and officer raise the challenge pose by surge demand for water rescue service during the hot weather . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to their service , and will she consider a debate in Government time on the importance of properly fund water rescue service , include whether it should be a statutory service ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the issue of water rescue service , especially at this time of year , when people — particularly young people — be out and about . I be pleased to hear he have such a good time visit the Red Watch firefighting service in his constituency . I think that would actually make a very good topic for debate — maybe when we get back after the summer . if I ask the Leader of the House , " 1666 — what happen in that year ? " , I be not quite sure — [ interruption . ] there we be : the great fire of London . in fact , it be also the last time anyone in Parliament be fine for lie to Parliament . of course , there be the ministerial code , the nolan principle and the contempt of Parliament procedure , but there have not be a fine since that year . for member and non - Members alike , where be the deterrent ? what be the incentive , even , for tell the truth to this place ? minister , of course , can be bring back to the House to correct the record , but for people give evidence to Select Committees , for instance , there really be a gap at the moment . be it not time we put fine on a statutory basis for member and non - Members alike so that we can be assure that people be incentivise to tell the truth and , should they be tempt not to tell the truth , there be a deterrent ? the right hon . member obviously do not see I on last year ' s Christmas special of " University Challenge " , where I do answer a question on 1666 — which , for the record , I get right . that aside , he raise a very serious issue . he know that knowingly mislead Parliament and this House carry with it the most serious of consequence . we find that out in the last Parliament , when a sit Prime Minister find to have mislead the House and be force out of office as a result . no high punishment could have be find . that investigation be do by the Committee of Privileges . there be many way for member to hold Ministers to account for the thing that they say at the Dispatch Box , and for other member to hold people to account — whether that be through point of order , question , interrogation , require people to correct the record , or , indeed , make complaint to our very high standard regime and , of course , to the Privileges Committee . a few week ago , I have the privilege of visit St Matthew ' s catholic primary school in my constituency and to meet all the student . I particularly enjoy meet the pupil in year 1 , who have since write to I with some of their concern about global debt and its impact on poor country and the citizen live there . will she join I in recognise the incredible initiative and dedication of those student in that class , and commend they and their teacher for take such an interest in global affair ? can we also have a debate about global debt , perhaps when we come back from the summer recess ? it be pretty amazing that year 1 student , who would be five , six — maybe seven at the most — be take such a keen interest in issue around global debt and global affair . it be a testament to my hon . friend ' s constituent and the teacher in that school that they be take such a keen interest . this be a matter of importance to the House and I thank he for raise it today . I think it would make a very good topic for a debate . start a family be a huge moment for all who choose to start one , and for those face fertility issue a time that can be fraught with difficulty . IVF offer a beacon of light for those who can not conceive without help . my constituent in Chichester will no doubt be disappoint that NHS Sussex have choose to reduce its offering of IVF cycle from three down to just one , cite financial difficulty , when datum clearly show that multiple cycle be more likely to result in a positive outcome . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on introduce a national strategy for IVF , so that those who want to start a family do not face barrier base on their postcode ? I thank the hon . member for raise the issue of the IVF postcode lottery . it have be raise with I before , and I know that it can be very distressing for those seek to conceive a child and those with fertility issue when these thing be change and access to treatment be reduce . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be currently review the fertility guideline , and will consider whether the current recommendation for access to NHS - fund treatment be still appropriate . I would hope the information would apply across all area , mean people be not subject to a postcode lottery . I know that this be an issue of importance to the House , so when those guideline be review , I will ensure that a Minister come here . I recently visit Richard House hospice in west Beckton in my constituency . it be the first dedicated child ' s hospice in London , and currently support more than 300 family every year . this summer , it be celebrate its 25th anniversary . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the hospice on its silver jubilee ? do she agree that , when we discuss hospice in this place , as we often do , we need to make sure that we put time aside specifically to discuss child ' s hospice , which do such important work support family , child and parent in what be often the most difficult time of their family ' s life ? I join my hon . friend in thank all those at Richard House child ' s hospice and everybody around the country who work in and with child ' s hospice . it be a job that I personally would not be able to do . we be incredibly grateful for all the people who work in child ' s hospice , who support child and their family at one of the most difficult time in their life — and who actually make that experience a happy one . as I say , it be a job that I just would not be able to do myself . far to the previous question , people the beautiful constituency of West Worcestershire look back in anger at some of the decision make by Labour during its first year in office — not least the decision in the Budget to bring in a tax on my local child ' s hospice , Acorns , which have add £ 400 , 000 to its bill . will the Leader of the House find time between now and recess to schedule a debate , or a statement from a Health Minister , on renew the child ' s hospice grant from 2026 onwards ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the issue of Acorns child ' s hospice in her constituency , which I be sure do an amazing job , along with all those other child ' s hospice . I know that this be an issue of concern ; it be raise in the House a lot . we have have many debate on the subject . we have increase the revenue for child ' s hospice by £ 26 million , and have provide some capital funding for all hospice . through our 10 - year health plan and our plan for the NHS , we be support hospice and other as well we can . we have take decision , which I be not sure the hon . Lady agree with , to support the NHS through tax rise , but we have have to make those decision to pay for the healthcare and hospice care that she describe . I will ensure that the House be update on these issue . for more than 200 year , the Gurkhas have serve our country with extraordinary loyalty alongside our british force , yet thousand who enlist in or before 1993 remain on an inferior pension scheme that leave too many of they live in poverty , include in my constituency of Aldershot and Farnborough . I know just how deeply this injustice be feel across the community from the many meeting that I have hold as chair of the Nepal all - party parliamentary group , include with the G10 in Parliament a fortnight ago . I be delighted to hear that the Ministry of Defence have start Government - to - government talk , but will the Leader of the House grant time for a debate on honour the service and the sacrifice of the Gurkhas , so that this House can properly consider how we can do right by those who have stand by we ? my hon . friend have be a great campaigner on this matter as Chair of the Nepal all - party parliamentary group . she will know — and share with we , I be sure — that we greatly value the Gurkhas ' long and distinguish history of service in our armed force , and we remain committed to support the welfare of Gurkha veteran and their family both in the UK and in Nepal . the Secretary of State for Defence be in his place as she ask her question , so I be sure that he will take up those issue , but if he do not , I will make sure that he do . the shadow Leader of the House reference Monday ' s Westminster Hall debate on Northern Ireland veteran . unfortunately , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland run out of time before he could give his full response . there seem to be a difference in the Government ' s response between the Ministry of Defence and the Northern Ireland Office on how legacy matter can be progress . have the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland give the Leader of the House notification that he intend to make a statement to the House next Monday on how legacy matter in Northern Ireland will proceed ? if he have , can she give this House an assurance that it will be make in this place , and not at a press conference in Belfast ? first , may I repeat what I say early and acknowledge the outstanding service give to this country by our british service personnel who work in Northern Ireland over many , many year ? as I say early , this be a complicated issue , which be now subject to a great deal of legal uncertainty and legal challenge , and that be why we need to get it right — and we be keen to work together to get it right . I can absolutely assure the hon . member that the Secretary of State take seriously his obligation make statement on these kind of matter to this House , and to this House first . he will bring forward those statement as he progress that dialogue to get these issue right over the come week . in 1942 , 57 man and boy be kill in the Sneyd colliery disaster while serve King and country . their work help to power our country and the war effort . I recently speak at a memorial service lead by Father Andrew Swift at the Holy Trinity church in Burslem , in my constituency of Stok - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Father Swift and all who organise the service memory of those who be kill ? I thank my hon . friend for bring the House ' s attention to the Sneyd colliery disaster and the tragedy that unfold . the aftermath of the disaster see great act of generosity and selflessness , bring people together . I pay tribute to Father Andrew Swift at the Holy Trinity church for put on the service of remembrance . on Tuesday , the second phase of health investment happen at the planning meeting in Hinckley . the planning for the £ 10 million day case unit be approve , but with a condition after a third party put in an appeal about a listing that have be decline twice before . often when we come to this Chamber , it be to raise a complaint , but I would like to offer some congratulation . I have contact the planning department and the NHS , and speak to the CEO of the council , but I see that the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism , the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) be in his place , and his Department deserve recognition , because I have hear today that the designation review team have already look at the application and say that the old one stand . that mean that we now have a green light . will the Leader of the House thank all those involve , from the NHS to the Department itself , the planning department and all the people who have get behind this effort — 1 , 600 people in two week sign my petition — to get this over the line ? it have now get the green light , so will she congratulate they and urge they forward , because if we do not get on with it , we lose the funding by 2026 ? I thank the hon . member for his leadership and for bring everyone together to get the green light for the project . I be sure that his constituent will be very grateful for the role he have play in ensure that all those various agency pull together to get this over the line . for that he should be congratulate . I be so proud that High Peak ' s very own George Bloor have qualify for the golf Open championship and will be play his first round this afternoon . this be a tremendous achievement . it be George ' s childhood dream , and all his hard work and dedication be pay off . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate George and wish he every success in the Open ? can we have a debate in Government time on how we can make sport accessible , particularly golf and tennis , so that all child can achieve their childhood dream ? I of course join my hon . friend in congratulate George Bloor on qualify for the golf Open championship , and what an achievement — it be a very high bar to attain . I will watch out for he later , when he will hopefully get a few under par golf thing — whatever they be call — under his belt and maybe beat Rory McIlroy in the Open . [ laughter . ] I have to talk about cricket the other day and could not quite remember what bowling be , so instead I say , " throw a ball " ! one of my young constituent have have virtually no meaningful education since year 1 . now nearly at the end of his primary education , he can not cope with be at school at all , as he be traumatise by repeat failure in the special educational need and disability system . I know that the Government be plan long - term transformation of the SEND system and early intervention — that be all very welcome — but the crisis be now . the Leader of the House know , as I do , that long - term transformation take year to take hold , and people need help now . can we have a statement from the Government on how they be deal with the immediate crisis so that the people who be immediately face all these difficulty can get immediate answer ? the hon . Lady raise the important issue of SEND , and the case she outline explain the challenge that many family face in navigate the current SEND system . support come far too late , outcome be poor , and it be very costly to all concerned . that be why we need to take a proper , concerted and long - term look over time at how we can reform the SEND system . to her question about immediate support , we have put in an extra £ 1 billion for this financial year , and we hope that that will reach the frontline so that constituent like hers can get the support that they need . resident of the new Goodrich Mews estate in Gornal , which be complete in 2013 , have be deal with a collapsed retain wall for year now . the management agency originally confess that it be poorly construct , and it be repair . it should have have a 60 - year lifespan after that , but it have once again collapse , and the management agency be demand £ 6 , 000 from local resident to repair the wall . this be simply disgraceful and completely unjust . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on hold builder , housing developer and management agency to account to protect resident and deliver value for money for resident ? I be sorry to hear about the ongoing situation on the estate in my hon . friend ' s constituency . she be right that the buck be be pass for too long from developer to freeholder and other , with no action be take . this Government be absolutely committed to put power and agency back into the hand of leaseholder , homeowner and resident , so that they can hold people to account and get remediation work do quicky . autism and other neurodiversity condition in child present challenge to any parent , but sadly stigma and ignorance remain particularly high in some community , include some part of the south asian community . this already add deep emotional strain to family suffer and navigate complex journey . that be why the Leader of the House will join I , I be sure , in congratulate sister Shamina and Hawa Khan , who have just open Caf é Neuro in Leicester South . it be a warm welcome space that be offer not just tea , samosa and sweet treat but training , advocacy and community support . if the Leader of the House be ever in Leicester South , I would be delighted to share a masala chai and samosa with she there . I thank the hon . member for his question . as a regular attendee at these session for a year now , he have raise issue around autism with I before , so I know it be a keen interest of his . Caf é Neuro sound like a great spot , and I will certainly check it out next time I be in Leicester South . NHS England have establish a cross - sector taskforce to look at how we can well support people with autism and ADHD , and I will ensure that he be keep update on that . I thank the Leader of the House for her statement , and for the good humour and patience that she have bring to the Dispatch Box over the last year . last week Mike and Clare , two climate activist from Edinburgh South West , bring to this place dozen of climate change poster create by child in primary 4 at Bonaly primary school in my constituency . the poster be absolutely fantastic , cover everything from support bee and plant tree to encourage their parent to drive less and perhaps install solar panel . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the child for the leadership they be show ? they be not wait for we to take action but be demand that we do so . will she also wish they well for the summer holiday , which be under way already in Scotland , and for their come academic year in primary 5 ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word about business question . I join he in congratulate Mike and Clare and all those from Bonaly primary school . their poster sound like an education and one that we should all look at . the child be right to say that the climate and nature emergency be happen now , and we all need educating and training on how we can take step to deal with it . come from a rural background and constituency , and have visit London only a handful of time before become an MP , it be a massive culture shock to come here last July . represent our constituent would not be possible without the kindness and consideration of the whole of the House , include the Speaker ' s Office , the Table Office , the Vote Office , the Tea Room , the catering staff and those who ensure our office be clean and tidy in the morning . all the staff play their part in ensure that we be able to do our work . on behalf of my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) and myself from Plaid Cymru , as well as all the 2024 intake , I thank they for all the help we have receive over the past year . I hope that the Leader of the House will join I in thank everybody who ensure that the cog of this place run so efficiently . Diolch yn fawr iawn . I thank the hon . member for that lovely appreciation of the Speaker , the Deputy Speakers , the Doorkeepers , all the House staff and all those who make our job in this place possible . I do not realise that the hon . Lady be from the 2024 intake . because she do such an excellent job , I think she have be here for a lot long than that . she represent her constituent brilliantly and be a regular attender at these session . notwithstanding that — I might sound like Bruce Forsyth now — I think the 2024 intake be my favourite intake . I be not the only member who be deeply concern by report this week of armed police in Kent threaten a peaceful protester with arrest for hold a palestinian flag and have sign say , " Free Gaza " and , " Israel be commit genocide " . many people across our country , and member across the House , be rightly horrify by Israel ' s action against Palestinians , which this morning appear to include bomb Gaza ' s only catholic church , where people with special need be shelter . People want to exercise their legal right to protest against what be happen , and they must be free to do so without police harassment . will the Leader of the House please ask Home Office Ministers to meet with concerned mp about this ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . what we see happen in Gaza right now be truly horrifying . I do not think there be any Member of the House , or indeed the public , who be not move to want to see action take to stop what be happen in Gaza , with the killing of innocent civilian and child , the withholding of aid from distribution and the withholding of much - need hospital care . it be absolutely right that we say loudly and clearly that people who want to protest and make their view know — whether against this Government , the israeli Government or whoever else — should be able to do so freely , without fear of arrest or action be take . I will ensure that she get a ministerial meeting on that . first , as this be the last business question before recess , I give my sincere thank to the Leader of the House for all her answer . more importantly , I give thank on behalf of all the voiceless people across the world who have a voice through this Chamber and , ultimately , the Leader of the House , who convey all the request that I and other give directly to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . there be report of rise economic discrimination against Christians in northern and central Nigeria , include destruction of Christian - own business and denial of employment on religious ground , with widespread impunity . give the UK ' s incredibly strong trade and development tie with Nigeria , will the Leader of the House ask the fcdo to update the House on its assessment of those concern and on what step the UK have take to ensure that its partnership promote religious freedom and protect the livelihood of minority community , give that voice to the voiceless today in this Chamber ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I think he be the only person who have never miss a business question session since I begin in this role . in fact , I be not sure he have miss any Adjournment debate in the House over the last year . whether he or I have the high number of speak contribution , he should win the award anyway because every day in this place he give a voice to those around the world and his constituent . I thank he for that . we have previously discuss the issue in Nigeria . I will ensure that the Foreign Office update the hon . gentleman on that , but , as he know , those conversation be ongoing , and we do ask the Nigerian Government to take action . resident in area of my constituency have raise the poor postal service they have be receive in recent week , which have lead to their not receive important financial information on time and miss hospital appointment . I realise that that issue be often raise with the Leader of the House , but will she join I in say that Royal Mail and Ofcom really do need to get their act together and ensure that my constituent do not continue to receive such a second - class service ? this issue be often raise in these session . there have be systematic problem at Royal Mail over recent year , which be why Ofcom have recently sanction it twice over its service level and be far investigate it . I know from meeting for my constituent that under Royal Mail ' s new ownership and new leadership we be see some improvement to service . I implore my hon . friend to arrange such meeting in her constituency as well . I think this topic would make for a very popular and well - attend debate . last week , I have the pleasure of meet Martyn Waters to discuss the closure of Cublington ' s only and much - love pub , the Unicorn . Martyn be work hard with the community to buy it and to give it a future , and I have tell he that he have my full support . I be grateful to the Leader of the House for make space to debate and progress our manifesto pledge to introduce a community right to buy . will she share more about how that will help protect place like the Unicorn pub in Cublington ? I be sorry to hear of the propose closure of the Unicorn pub in her constituency . on the community effort to keep it open , last week we introduce the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , which will bring a generational shift in community empowerment include the community right to buy , which she rightly mention , so that community such as hers can take over asset like the Unicorn . I just announce the Second reading of that Bill for when we return , and I be sure that she will raise those issue . in my constituency , East Calder have be let down by the SNP Scottish Government ' s repeat failure to deliver a long promise health centre . despite record funding , include £ 5 . 8 billion in Barnett consequential for health , the SNP Scottish Government have fail in their promise to the people of East Calder . meanwhile , the UK Labour Government be show how public money can be use to rebuild , reform and reinvest in our NHS right across the country . do the Leader of the House agree that it be time for a debate on how the SNP Scottish Government can learn from that approach and that place like East Calder deserve well than the SNP ' s dither and delay ? I could not have put it well myself . the contrast between the NHS in England and the NHS in Scotland under the SNP Government could not be clear . as my hon . Friend say , they have just have a record Budget settlement , so there really be no excuse . they should definitely learn some lesson from what we be do here . under the previous Conservative Government , change be make to how claimant access the diffuse mesothelioma payment scheme , which be design to compensate those with rare asbestos - relate lung cancer . those change force claimant to use outdated paper form instead of online application . as a result , people face terminal illness experience unacceptable delay in receive the support they be rightly entitle to , include my constituent Carolanne ' s husband Jack — sadly no long with we — who be leave waiting month because of that bureaucracy . will the Leader of the House help to facilitate a meeting between I , my constituent and the relevant Minister to ensure that the process be streamline to well support those who need it ? I be really sorry to hear about that case . those who suffer with mesothelioma still suffer a great injustice . I will absolutely ensure that my hon . friend get a full response from a Minister , and hopefully a meeting on the matter . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to provide home for hero , but some social housing provider be focus on those with very recent service only . my constituent Arthur be a veteran with 12 year ' service , but he be live in an overcrowded property ; in fact , he be sleep on the floor in the living room so that his child can have a bed . will the Leader of the House ensure that I can obtain a meeting with the relevant Minister to ensure that veteran like Arthur get the housing they need ? the level of homelessness and housing need among our veteran be shocking and a wake - up call for all of we , and I will ensure that my hon . friend have a meeting with the Minister . that be why we be take step to ensure that there be more housing provision for veteran and everybody else . in July 2023 , two Warwickshire police officer station in my constituency , pc Mateusz Dabrowski and PC Dominic Strange , courageously rescue someone from a burn car , risk their life in the process , before attempt to save the person ' s life with immediate first aid . recently , the chief constable of Warwickshire police award the two officer the chief constable ' s commendation and describe their action as " an act of bravery of the high degree . " they have both be nominate for the national police bravery award 2025 . will the Leader of the House join I in honour the brave action of those police officer ? do she agree that their action epitomise the very good of our police service : selfless dedication to protect the public ? I join my hon . friend in give our heartfelt thank to pc Dabrowski and pc Strange for their heroic effort . I hope their nomination for the national police bravery award be take forward and that they be give one of those award , because it sound like they be deserve winner . follow the recent Channel 4 documentary " Poisoned : Killer in the Post " , may we have a statement from the Ministry of Justice on the action be take to tackle a specific and grow threat of online content promote chemical method of suicide ? one of my constituent in south - east Cornwall be tragically affect by that and I know they be not alone . this be a serious failure of online safety , and we need clarity on how platform be be hold accountable , how victim be be support and what step be be take to prevent further harm . I be sorry to hear of that case . my hon . friend will be aware that the content duty in the Online Safety Act 2023 require platform to tackle illegal suicide and self - harm content and activity . the Act be now come into force , with new guidance be put forward regularly . we will keep those matter under review , however , and if we need to strengthen the law , we will . I thank the Leader of the House for confirm the recess date for the next 12 month , which my wife have already message I about to say thank . the Leader of the House will be aware that , despite important draft Government legislation ban single - use vape , vape shop masquerade as candy store continue to spring up everywhere across my Bolton West constituency . a new shop have just pop up in Horwich near Saint Joseph ' s roman catholic high school . the school have do excellent work in tackle vape use among child but it be fight a rise tide . will the Leader of the House set aside Government time to debate how the Tobacco and Vapes Bill and other measure be implement to improve public health and prevent store from be use as front business by organise crime gang ? I be pleased to have announce the full year of recess date . I feel like that be my most important key performance indicator as Leader of the House . my hon . friend raise an important issue about the proliferation and use of vape , and the challenge that that bring to our high street and for young people , public health and many other area . we have already ban single - use vape through a statutory instrument and our flagship Tobacco and Vapes Bill be progress through this House and will shortly make further progress . I recently have a meeting with one of my constituent , Sian from Palmersville , who be one of the founder of the Safe Clicks foundation . the foundation call for great accountability of social medium company to tackle bully online and to ensure that digital space be safe , respectful and root in responsibility . it have also recently launch a parliamentary petition . can we have a debate about the action that the Government be take to protect online space and ensure that social medium company take action to stamp out bullying and harassment online ? I be sure my hon . friend will agree that tackle online abuse and hate be one of the big challenge of our time . the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) be in his place . the Online Safety Act 2023 have be an important first step , but tech platform need to do more and we will hold they to account for that . the Government want to go far and we will keep the House update . may I thank the Leader of the House for her courtesy and generosity over the past year during business question session ? she deserve a well - earn rest and holiday during recess — for which I suggest no well place than my constituency . there , she can enjoy a round of golf at Dalmuir golf course , run by a community trust , visit the bonnie bank of Loch Lomond , or accept my invitation to join I at the scottish pipe band championship in Dumbarton on Saturday 26 July . admission be free . I thank my hon . friend ; I be look forward to a well - earn rest . he be very much on - theme today in invite I to his favourite spot in his constituency , and he have do that very well . the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms sit next to I just say about my hon . friend ' s constituency , " it be very , very nice . " maybe one day I will visit Loch Lomond and perhaps do well at golf than I do in answer the previous question . Hanson Springs in Rochdale be found 62 year ago by Malcolm Hanson , and it have go from strength to strength . this year the company be invest £ 3 million in new plant , machinery and expand factory space . Malcolm turn 80 next month , but still work 40 hour a week and his granddaughter Lucy join the firm only this week , straight from rochdale sixth - form college . will the Leader of the House join I in wish Malcolm a very happy 80th birthday , because he be exactly the sort of grafter and entrepreneur that make our town and this country such a special place ? I join my hon . friend in wish Malcolm Hanson a very good 80th birthday . his granddaughter have a very good name ; I will say that . it be great to see that he be offer great job opportunity to young people in his constituency , and Hanson Springs sound like it be go from strength to strength . for the past year , I have be work with the Midlands Partnership University NHS foundation trust to secure and unlock the fund to build a new neighbourhood health centre in Longton , which , incidentally , be the home of Gladstone pottery museum feature in " the Great Pottery throw down " — the Leader of the House be welcome to come and visit . the plan be to deliver well join - up healthcare in the community . naturally , I be delighted to see this Government ' s commitment to move healthcare from hospital to community in the 10 - year plan . will the Leader of the House allow for a debate in Government time on how we can deliver a neighbourhood health service as quickly as possible ? my hon . friend be a great champion for her constituency . " the Great Pottery throw down " be one of my favourite show , so maybe I will visit her constituency . she be absolutely right to call for more healthcare provision in her constituency — an integrate care hub in Longton . I will happily work with she to get that off the ground . last Friday , I meet business owner who operate in Morley Bottoms and who have manage to turn one of the most undesirable part of our town into one of the destination that people travel into Morley to experience . Madam Deputy Speaker , you have an invitation to come along and join I any time , as do the Leader of the House , and the first round be on I . those business owner be , however , victim of their own success . unfortunately , a spate of burglary over the past few year have affect the business . we have meet the police and be work with they to sort it out . I welcome the Government ' s move to ensure that our town centre be protect this summer with increase police presence . however , we have to go far , we have to go fast , we have to increase the number of police and we have to increase the power available to they , too . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on that in Government time , and perhaps encourage the other place to send our Crime and Policing Bill back as soon as possible so that we can do just what I have mention ? absolutely . we have introduce our neighbourhood policing guarantee to put more neighbourhood police on the street , along with our Crime and Policing Bill and the many other measure that we be take , so that town centre such as Morley can thrive and business can go about their work without fear of the blight of antisocial behaviour , shoplifting or crime . as the final person to ask a question of the Leader of the House today , may I join the thank to all in the House and to the Leader of the House for her commitment to these session ? the Motor Neurone Disease Association be hold a day of action in Parliament Square today to raise awareness of Tofersen , a groundbreake precision therapy for SOD1 MND . the association ' s aim be to highlight the grow number of patient eligible to access the drug , but who be unable to do so due to a lack of capacity and clinical support . will my right hon . friend provide Government time for a debate to explore what more can be do to break down the barrier to that MND treatment , and what more Government can do in partnership with scientist , researcher and clinician to find a cure ultimately for this devastating disease ? I thank my hon . friend for his thank . it have be my absolute pleasure to answer all the hundred of question that I have answer over the last year , and he raise another important one , too . he be absolutely right that motor neurone disease be an utterly devastating disease that be currently incurable . I wish all those well who be here for the day of action . I know that Tofersen be currently be review . that review be happen rapidly , so that we can get these innovative new treatment in use as quickly as possible and end this devastating disease once and for all . Ukraine with permission , I wish to make a statement on the war in Ukraine . today be day 1 , 239 since President Putin launch his full - scale invasion and it be more than a decade since the Ukrainians have know peace in their homeland . they have have home destroy , land seize , child abduct and love one kill by Putin ' s force . yet the ukrainian people still fight with remarkable determination — military and civilian alike . almost three and a half year on , I be proud to say that this House remain united for Ukraine . Britain remain united for Ukraine , too . polling show that we retain the strong public support for Ukraine of any european nation . our solidarity be ground in our deep respect for the ukrainian people ' s courage , and in recognition of the fact that the defence of Europe start in Ukraine — because we know that if Putin prevail in Ukraine , he will not stop with Ukraine . let I begin by provide a battlefield update . Russia be maintain pressure along the whole length of the frontline , with a special focus on Sumy in the north - east and Pokrovsk in the south - east , as well as in Kursk . last month , russian ground force seize approximately 550 sq km of ukrainian territory — an area great than the size of Greater Manchester — yet they face continue difficulty attempt to take fortified town and city , and they have not take a significant town for month . indeed , they have try without success to seize Pokrovsk for nearly a year . what ground they do gain come at great cost . last month , the number of russian troop kill and wound surpass more than 1 million . this year alone , Russia have sustain 240 , 000 casualty . despite those catastrophic russian loss , Putin ' s ruthless ambition do not appear to be wane . Russia be escalate the high number of one - way attack drone launch at Ukraine : 1 , 900 in April , 4 , 000 in May , 5 , 000 in June and already 3 , 200 in July . on 9 July , a week ago today , the large aerial strike of the war be record when Russia launch more than 700 attack drone in a single night . despite the onslaught , Ukrainians be take the fight to Putin , strike military target in Russia that his people see and know about . Spider Web be an operation of remarkable precision and extraordinary success that deal a fierce blow to Putin . after one year of meticulous planning , it result in the damage of 41 long - range bomber — plane that threaten not only Ukraine but NATO . we must now step up effort to get further military support to the frontline . last month , on the eve of the NATO summit , we welcome President Zelensky to no . 10 Downing Street , where the Prime Minister sign a UK - Ukraine agreement to share advanced battlefield capability and technology — a deal that mean our defence industry can rapidly develop cut - edge technology from Ukraine , and step up production for Ukraine . at the NATO summit that follow , 32 nation come together to sign a new investment pledge to spend 5 % of gdp on defence and national security by 2035 . those 32 nation reaffirm their commitment to Ukraine , with € 40 billion pledge in security assistance for this year . it be a good summit for Ukraine , for Britain and for NATO ; it be a bad summit for Putin . on the basis of those commitment at NATO , President Trump signal a significant shift this week on Ukraine : he announce NATO weapon transfer , and a 50 - day deadline for Putin to agree to peace . together with the NATO Secretary - General , President Trump agree to large - scale purchase by NATO ally of US military equipment , include Patriot missile and other air defence system and munition , which he commit to get " quickly distribute to the battlefield " . the UK back the scheme , and we plan to play our full part . on Monday , we will discuss this far when I chair the next meeting of the Ukraine Defence Contact Group alongside my german counterpart , Minister Boris Pistorius . the contact group continue to be the forum through which more than 50 nation provide Ukraine with what it need to fight back against Putin ' s war machine . I be pleased that Monday ' s meeting will be attend by US Secretary Hegseth ; NATO Secretary - General Mark Rutte ; and the Supreme Allied Commander Europe , General Grynkewich . Britain be provide more than £ 4 . 5 billion in military aid to Ukraine this year — more than ever before . at the UDCG , I will provide the following update . first , on the extraordinary revenue acceleration scheme , two third of the UK ' s ERA total of £ 2 . 26 billion have now be disburse , include £ 700 million on artillery shell , long - range rocket and air defence missile — exactly what Ukraine need most . secondly , on drone , since March the UK have supply nearly 50 , 000 drone to Ukraine . this help we to meet our commitment to increase tenfold our supply this year . thirdly , on air defence , the UK and Germany have agree to partner in provide critical air defence missile to Ukraine . fourthly , on the NATO comprehensive assistance package , the UK will donate a furth £ 40 million , which Ukraine can use , through a range of programme , on anything from de - mining to rehabilitate its wounded . it be four month since President Zelensky respond to President Trump ' s peace negotiation with Ukraine ' s full commitment to an unconditional ceasefire . President Putin have show no such interest in an end to the fighting , but peace in Ukraine be possible , and we must be ready for when that peace come . since March , the UK and France have lead the coalition of the willing on plan new security arrangement to support Ukraine in any ceasefire . More than 200 military planner from 30 nation have work intensively for week with Ukraine ; that include work on reconnaissance in Ukraine , lead by UK personnel . last week , at the summit , President Macron and Prime Minister Starmer say that this initial phase of detailed military planning have conclude . I can confirm that the military command and control structure have be agree for a future Multinational Force Ukraine . the force ' s mission will be to strengthen Ukraine ' s defence on the land , at sea and in the air , because the ukrainian armed force be the good deterrent against future russian aggression . the force will include a three - star multinational command headquarters in Paris , rotate to London after the first 12 month . when the force deploy , there will be a co - ordination HQ in Kyiv , head by a UK two - star military officer . it will regenerate land force by provide logistic , armament and training expert . it will secure Ukraine ' s sky by use aircraft to deliver a level of support similar to that use for NATO ' s air policing mission , and it will support safe sea by bolster the Black sea taskforce with additional specialist team . when peace come , we will be ready , and we will play our part in secure it for the long term . next month , on 24 August , Ukrainians will gather to celebrate their independence day . for another year , the anniversary of Ukraine ' s liberation will be mark under the pain of occupation . whatever else command the world ' s attention , we must never lose sight of this war . we must never lose sight of Putin ' s brutal , illegal invasion of that proud and sovereign nation , and we must never forget the price that Ukraine be pay in fighting for its own freedom and the security of all free nation , include ours . the UK will stand with the ukrainian people today , tomorrow , the day after , and for as long it take for Ukraine to prevail . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . it be less than a month ago that the United States undertake a bombing raid on iranian nuclear facility — one of the most significant military action undertake anywhere in the world for year . with such development understandably dominate the headline , and almost three and a half year have elapse since Russia first launch its unprovoked and illegal all - out invasion , it be right that the Government regularly update the House — as we do — on development in Ukraine . the reality be that there have be no let - up in russian aggression . as the Secretary of State confirm , 9 July see the large drone attack of the war by Russia , and there be report yesterday of Russia use 400 drone to target energy infrastructure and city across Ukraine . that indiscriminate barbarism have inevitably lead to further civilian casualty , but on the military side , can the Secretary of State confirm that Russia have suffer by far the great loss ? he confirm that last month , russian battlefield casualty surpass 1 million . do that not show the extent to which Putin have nothing but callous disregard for the human impact of his action on either side ? I be proud of the decisive assistance that we provide to Ukraine when we be in office . we continue to stand with the Government in seek to provide all possible support , but it be vital that all our ally play their part . on France , and what be previously call the coalition of the willing , I agree that we need to be ready for when that peace come , so can the Secretary of State confirm how many other nation will provide fighter jet to the Multinational Force Ukraine ? can he confirm that there be no long any planning for a land combat element to the mnfu ? we welcome the additional provision of military hardware by the US , but the Secretary of State say that " we plan to play our full part . " will the UK therefore be purchase military equipment from the United States to pass on to Ukraine ? the Secretary of State do not mention potential sanction or tariff . it have be widely report that President Trump be consider tariff of 100 % on good enter the US from any country that import any product from Russia . have the Government discuss this plan with the US , and will the UK follow suit ? the Times report today that Andriy Yermak , senior adviser to President Zelensky , have state that the imposition of secondary sanction on nation buy oil and gas from Russia could end the war " before the end of this year . " do the Secretary of State agree with that analysis , and again , would the UK join in any secondary sanction policy direct against country import russian oil and gas ? on Germany , we understand that the Prime Minister be meet Chancellor Merz today . may I urge the Government to push their german counterpart on provision of Taurus missile to Ukraine ? alternatively , give that the missile be , we understand , compatible with Typhoon , will the Government backfill UK stock to enable the provision of more storm Shadow missile ? turn to the impact of all this on the UK , we understand that Germany will today sign an agreement with the Prime Minister to come to each other ' s aid in the event of an attack on the other . will the Secretary of State outline how that be different from NATO article 5 ? I have have recent discussion with senior german parliamentarian on the impact on our nation of support Ukraine , and the Germans believe , as have be widely report , that drone overflight of their military basis be link to nefarious russian activity . in the context of recent threat to RAF basis , and drone overflight at Suffolk RAF basis and elsewhere last November , can he update we at all — I appreciate the sensitivity of this — on whether there be yet any indication of russian involvement ? in particular , will he update we on progress on the review of security at UK basis , which he launch last month ? when I be Minister for Defence Procurement , I strip out a whole load of process and red tape to bring forward the in - service date of our groundbreake DragonFire anti - drone laser from 2032 to 2027 . give the extraordinary potential for direct energy weapon , will the Secretary of State accelerate adoption even far , and ensure rapid testing of anti - drone defence for our military basis ? on drone more broadly , in a write answer in March , Ministers confirm that they have order just three military drone for our armed force since the election . I have table subsequent write question on progress , and Ministers be now say that they can not answer the question . what be the late figure ? UK small and medium - sized enterprise have provide some of the good drone and counter - drone measure use on the live battlefield in Ukraine , so why be we not order the same kit in parallel for our own Army , at scale and at pace , so that it can train today — not year in the future — in how war be fight right now in Ukraine ? after three and half year of war , we must keep remind the british public of the most important point for our national interest — namely , that the good way to defend our homeland right now be to give all possible support to Ukraine , so that the democracy triumph over the dictatorship , and to prevent Putin ' s aggression from spread westward . I be grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for his welcome for the update . I welcome the Opposition ' s continue backing for the step that we be take to support Ukraine , just as we give our backing to their government when we be in opposition . the shadow Secretary of State be right to point out that the massive scale of russian casualty show the contempt that President Putin have for the life of his own people , as well as for the life of those in Ukraine . he be also right to point out that russian casualty far outnumber those in Ukraine . on the coalition of the willing , 30 nation be involve in the planning . the military planning be now complete , and we will keep it refresh until renew ceasefire negotiation , which we hope to see soon . under the plan , there will be a land force , and activity in the air and on the sea . I be pleased to hear the shadow Secretary of State back the aid that we be put into Ukraine . he ask about the coalition of the willing , but I really can not recall — and I have check — he back the coalition . do his party support Britain ' s leadership of the Multinational Force Ukraine ? discussion on the Trump NATO plan will be develop on Monday at the Ukraine Defence Contact Group meeting , which I will co - chair will Boris Pistorius . if sanction and economic measure play a part in the action that the international community need to take to bring Putin to the negotiating table , we will of course use they . the shadow Secretary of State ' s Government have a good record ; we have go a lot far in the past year . since July , we have introduce over 500 new sanction against individual , entity and ship across all the regime , and as a nation we have now sanction over 289 vessel in the russian shadow fleet . on base security , I will update the House when the full base security review be complete . on DragonFire , the shadow Secretary of State be right to say that he be instrumental in the UK take its first step on that technology , but he leave the programme largely unfunded . we be already accelerate it , and will put that technology into four of our naval vessel , not just the one that he plan to put it in . on drone , the hon . Gentleman know that what he keep cite be a very specific answer to a very specific question . he know that follow the strategic defence review , we be double to more than £ 4 billion the amount of money in this Parliament that we will invest in autonomy and drone . he know that we will establish a new drone centre of excellence . this will mean we can accelerate the use of uncrewed system or drone in every service . the Army , for instance , will train thousand of operator . this summer , we will start roll out 3 , 000 strike drone . that will be follow by more than 1 , 000 surveillance drone , and we will equip every section with drone for the future . that be what we mean in the strategic defence review when we talk about combine the power of new technology with the heavy metal of platform like tank , plane and ship to make Britain the most innovative armed force in NATO . as the Member for Aldershot , I know how deeply people in my constituency understand the cost of conflict and the value of standing by our ally , so I welcome this statement and thank the Secretary of State for his leadership on this issue . do he agree that the outcome in Ukraine matter for not just european security but the UK ' s stand as a reliable defence partner , and that for we to maintain this reputation , long - term investment in british capability and industry in constituency like mine — where , incidentally , DragonFire be create — be essential to sustain our support and deter further aggression ? my hon . friend be entirely right : the UK have be the most reliable ally for Ukraine since before the full - scale invasion almost three and a half year ago . she be also right to say that a test of this nation be whether we be willing to step up the leadership on Ukraine , as we have ; whether we be ready to step up the leadership in NATO , as we have ; and , underpin all , whether we be ready to step up the level of defence investment in this country , which we have . the Prime Minister announce in February that this country would invest 2 . 5 % of gdp in defence by 2027 , alongside the £ 5 billion extra in defence this year — labour ' s first year in government . this be the large increase in defence investment since the end of the cold war . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Defence Secretary for advance sight of his statement . we welcome the additional support to Ukraine , because we must continue to support Ukraine to defend Europe . Russia ' s increase attack be devastating , and we recognise the resilience of the Ukrainians and support they . President Trump only now seem to be realise what have always be clear : that Russia ' s brutal dictator have no interest in peace . while I be surprised and relieve to see the President announce potential secondary sanction if no ceasefire be agree within 50 day , we all know that he be as changeable as the wind . no one have forget the humiliating ambush he lay for President Zelensky in the Oval Office , and there be no guarantee he will not soon revert to praise Putin again . a 50 - day deadline could even encourage Putin to escalate his attack in the meantime . that be why the UK must go far to support Ukraine and increase pressure on the Kremlin . could the Defence Secretary update the House on progress towards seize the £ 25 billion in frozen russian asset here in the UK and deploy they to Ukraine ? what discussion be under way with european partner , especially Belgium and Germany , on do the same across the continent ? More must be do to cut off the oil revenue fuel Russia ' s war machine . the Secretary of State speak about the shadow fleet , but will the Government expand the UK ' s designation of vessel in Russia ' s shadow fleet , include those that be already sanction by the EU , Canada and the US ? finally , I turn to the announcement on the Multinational Force Ukraine . we welcome the conclusion of this first phase of planning and the UK ' s lead role in shape the future security architecture for Ukraine , but we need clarity on what this mean in practical term . can the Defence Secretary confirm what the specific UK armed force contribution will be to the Multinational Force Ukraine ? will there be any plan deployment of UK personnel on land , at sea or in the air once the mission be operational , and if so , what role will the UK play in that deployment ? first , we stand ready to expand sanction on the russian shadow fleet . secondly , the hon . Lady ask about the coalition of the willing . the military planning be complete . with the prospect of a ceasefire , which we hope to see soon but can not see immediately , the commitment and the detail will be firm up , and they will be report appropriately to the House at that stage . finally , the hon . Lady ask about the use of frozen asset . she will know the complexity of this challenge and the interest and will of the Government to work on this , but she will also recognise that the majority of those asset be hold outside the UK , so any action on this front must be take with and alongside other . therein lie the complexity of the discussion at present . I thank the Secretary of State for this statement and for express his , and indeed this House ' s , unwavere commitment to the ukrainian people against Putin ' s illegal war . I welcome the 50 , 000 drone that the UK have send to Ukraine and express my admiration for the ukrainian people , who be fight on behalf of all of we . no one predict the role of drone in this conflict and the astounding speed of the evolution of that technology in Ukraine , but also in Russia and China . what step be the Secretary of State take with our ally to ensure that we maintain or develop technological advantage in key defence capability and get it to the frontline ? my hon . friend be entirely right : for the first time in human conflict history , drone be kill far more and cause far more casualty than heavy artillery . she ask the challenging question that be at the heart of the strategic defence review that we publish at the beginning of last month : in learn lesson from Ukraine , how do we recognise the way that the change in warfare be accelerate by the rapidly advance technology ? that be the reason we be make a £ 4 billion investment in this Parliament alone in the drone technology that she cite and the potential of autonomy to reinforce the warfighting readiness of our force and therefore the deterrence that we can provide as a nation within NATO . Operation Orbital be the UK training programme for the ukrainian military . can the Secretary of State confirm that that personal and personnel datum be safe at the Ministry of Defence ? he mention there be 15 , 000 drone attack over the last four month , and he reference meeting with Germans to look at counter - drone munition and capability , but of course , Ukrainians be be attack right now — today . what thought have be give to the use of the RAF ' s Tucano aircraft , which I think be now out of service ? I wonder where they be . could they be redeploy ? could a variant of the Grob turboprop trainer perhaps be provide ? these slow - fly aircraft could interdict Shahed drone , for example , and they be low - cost and low - maintenance . I be not familiar with the Tucano aircraft — if they be still in our inventory , they have not come across my desk — but I will certainly look into that and write to the right hon . Gentleman . on the orbital training programme , I be confident that the datum relate to those personnel be secure . I be proud of that programme . it do not just follow Putin ' s full - scale invasion in February three and a half year ago ; it be in place after Russia first take Crimea and have proxy force move into Donetsk and Luhansk . there be a UK - canadian training programme support Ukrainians well before Putin ' s invasion , and since then , we have train more than 56 , 000 ukrainian force through the UK - lead multinational training programme . do the Secretary of State agree that the action of Russia on 9 July , when it launch the large aerial bombardment of the war to date , show that ukrainian civilian and military be still in a fight for their life and the future of their country , and that this House , our Government and our country must do everything possible to stand with they in that fight ? I do , and my hon . friend be right to remind the House and the public . these russian attack be direct not just at ukrainian frontline force , but at ukrainian city , ukrainian civilian and ukrainian civilian infrastructure . that be a harsh reminder of Putin ' s character . his brutal , illegal invasion be entirely contemptuous of the life of his own people , and he be attack civilian and civilian infrastructure . I fully support the work of the UK Government in provide military assistance to Ukraine . like so many voluntary group across the United Kingdom , the Rotary club of Duns have be actively involve in support Ukraine during the war . it have deliver several pick - up truck load with medical equipment and other essential supply to Ukraine . will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to the Rotary club and the other voluntary group that have be involve ? what more support can the Government provide to UK voluntary group that want to provide assistance to Ukraine ? I certainly pay tribute to the hon . Gentleman ' s local Rotary club and the other local group that reflect the continue public will to offer support where we can to Ukraine . if those group , include his local Rotary club , be look for specific support to get such supply to Ukraine , I would encourage he to contact I with the detail . I thank the Defence Secretary for his comprehensive statement . as a trade envoy , I be with the UK Government ' s mission to last week ' s Ukraine recovery conference in Rome , where two of the top ask for civilian recovery be improve air defence and de - mining , so I be very pleased to hear those mention . his statement be about our support for Ukraine , but for the long - term security of our own country and the whole of Europe , what lesson be the Ministry of Defence and the UK defence industry learn from Ukraine ' s innovation in defence ? my hon . friend be one of the most energetic and ceaseless supporter of Ukraine , and not just in this House . I know he have go out with supply to support civilian and comrade in Ukraine . I be glad that he be at the Ukraine recovery conference in Italy last week . if he be look for the lesson that the UK Ministry of Defence be pull from Ukraine , I will send he a personal copy of the strategic defence review . these plan for a so - call coalition of the willing be contingency plan . they be design for a time when Putin agree to a ceasefire in Ukraine , which , as the Secretary of State acknowledge , he show no sign of do . how do the prospect of Ukraine ' s ally , such as the UK , deploy armed force to Ukraine after a ceasefire incentivise the Kremlin to sue for peace ? one of the signal that the coalition of the willing underline to President Putin be that a large number of deeply commit democratic country be willing to stand with Ukraine in its fight against his invasion , and be willing to stand alongside Ukraine in any peace to secure a long - last and just settlement . the single message that Putin should take be that Ukraine will keep fight , that we will keep support it , and that the good way for he be now to accept that he need to come to the negotiating table to talk and put an end to this fighting . I thank my right hon . friend for his important update . it be clear that Russia ' s grow aggression undermine our security at home . do he agree that the outcome of the war in Ukraine matter deeply to every one of my constituent in Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy , as much as it do across the whole country and , indeed , all of Europe ? can he update we any far on the measure he be take to counter russian aggression ? my hon . friend ' s constituent in Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy share the sentiment across the UK of strong support for Ukraine , three and a half year into this war . [ interruption . ] there be a recognition that this matter rise above party politic , and a recognition in general that the UK not only need to say that we stand with Ukraine , but need to demonstrate that through our action . I hope her constituent will support the Government in what we be do . order . that be the fifth time I have hear a phone go off . silence be golden . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can confirm that it be not my phone . my ringtone be " 633 Squadron " , which be very distinctive . it be tremendous that the planning for the coalition of the willing have be put together so quickly , but plan be paper tiger . we need fly tiger . if we be to secure a peace that be eventually secure , we will need air superiority over Ukraine . can the Secretary of State give we a clue , perhaps not name individual country , of how many of the 30 member of the coalition of the willing be prepared to put combat aircraft into this plan ? Madam Deputy Speaker , it be not my phone either . the hon . Gentleman do an injustice to the more than 200 military planner , from more than 30 nation , who have work over the last four month on the detail of the military planning . it have not just be an exercise base and lead in France and the UK ; it have involve detailed reconnaissance in Ukraine , lead by UK personnel . these be serious military plan . they be design for the circumstance of a ceasefire — circumstance that be not entirely clear now , but that we hope to see . they will be refine regularly between now and any point of peace . they be design to make sure that , when we get that peace , we be ready to support it as a multinational force for Ukraine . I thank my right hon . friend for his update and for his leadership on this issue . in Russia and the temporarily occupy territory of Ukraine , russian authority have introduce military - patriotic training in school and youth group , expose ukrainian child to military propaganda urge enlistment in the russian armed force . there be also report that Russia be recruit ukrainian teenager and young adult to carry out espionage and sabotage within Ukraine . do my right hon . friend agree that Ukraine ' s child have no place on the battlefield in this war ? can he say a little more about the work he be do with colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to hold to account those responsible for the militarisation and force deportation of Ukraine ' s child ? I pay a huge tribute to my hon . friend for her ceaseless work to draw public attention in the UK to the plight of abducted ukrainian child and teenager in Russia . abduct ukrainian child have no place on the russian frontline , they have no place on the battlefield , and they have no place in Russia . when the Foreign Secretary and I first go to Ukraine together , when we be still in opposition , we meet a magnificent charity that be bring abduct ukrainian child back from Russia . we sit down with four young teenager who have be subject to exactly the sort of treatment that my hon . friend identify . I will look to work with she and Foreign Office colleague to reinforce any of the step we can take in this country to draw great attention to this brutal abuse of young people . it have be three and a half year since Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , and we all know that there have be huge loss of life , and incredible disruption and pain cause to many resident , not only in Ukraine but across the world . I see that for myself when I meet the Keighley Ukrainian association , which have go above and beyond , not only raise fund for those in Ukraine but support many family in my constituency . the owner of Keighley Cougars be in Ukraine as we speak , deliver sport equipment to organisation involve in rugby league in Ukraine , who be unable to have the equipment they need as a result of the war . will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to those two organisation ? we all know that a divide west only benefit Russia , so follow the late talk with NATO , will the Secretary of State also comment on what more the Government could be do to ensure other nation be play their part , both through military support and through funding and develop key defence capability to continue to support Ukraine ? the UK be play a lead part by co - chair the ukrainian defence contact group , as I will be on Monday . through that forum , 50 nation co - ordinate support and respond to Ukraine ' s battlefield support need . alongside the French , we be also lead by develop the coalition of the willing , plan for the future . I pay tribute to the member of the Keighley Cougars who be out in Ukraine deliver sport equipment — hat off to they . I see that as typical of the generosity of the people in Yorkshire . Brave Ukrainians in my constituency of Rugby , who be a long way from their compatriot at home , tell I about the continue suffering of civilian — I repeat : civilian — due to russian aggression . will the Defence Secretary join I in welcome the new drive from President Trump and NATO to ensure that Ukraine be in the good possible position both to defend itself and in any future negotiation ? in remind the House about the ukrainian family who be in Rugby , my hon . friend remind we that this be a war — an invasion — that have force many to flee their home . many be still receive shelter from UK family , and I pay tribute to those who be offer that shelter . we have be willing to back President Trump in his bid to secure a negotiate peace in Ukraine from the outset , and we look to this next stage as a hopeful sign . we will do whatever we can to reinforce his effort to put pressure on President Putin now and to bring he to the negotiating table . as secretary of the all - party parliamentary group on Germany , may I take this opportunity to welcome Monday ' s joint chairing of the Ukrainian Defence Contact Group by the Defence Secretary , alongside his german counterpart , Boris Pistorius ? I also congratulate the Government on today ' s landmark bilateral treaty between the UK and Germany , sign here in London , between the Prime Minister and Chancellor Merz , on mutual defence , security co - operation and industrial collaboration . the treaty demonstrate our determination to stand up to Putin ' s continued act of aggression , wherever they may take place , as well as the Government ' s endure commitment to Ukraine . I welcome my hon . friend ' s role in the all - party parliamentary group on Germany . the new coalition Government in Germany be make a massively welcome contribution to increase support to NATO and to european security . I welcome that great contribution . I note that the Federal Ministry of Defence be still lead , very ably , by a Social Democratic Party of Germany Minister , Boris Pistorius . I especially welcome that at the heart of the new friendship treaty , which Chancellor Merz and our Prime Minister will sign today , be the Trinity House agreement that Boris Pistorius and I strike back in October : a deep defence agreement , for the first time , between the UK and Germany . it mean that we will do so much more together as two nation , but also as two nation within NATO . social Media : Misinformation and Algorithms Science , Innovation and Technology Committee Select Committee Statement we now come to the first Select Committee statement on behalf of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . Dame Chi Onwurah will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , and not the relevant Government Minister , although Front Benchers may take part in questioning . I call Dame Chi Onwurah . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for this statement . today I speak on behalf of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , but also the hundred of thousand of people whose life be profoundly affect by last year ' s riot , as well as everyone impact by the long shadow of social medium misinformation . I want to put on the record my thank to the Committee Clerks and specialist who have support this inquiry , and the many witness who give evidence . they have help to shape our report , and we be very grateful , particularly to those who share their real - life experience of the riot and the online hate that accompany they . the Committee would also like to extend our deep sympathy to the family of the three little girl murder in Southport , and everyone affect . like many nation , the UK be grapple with the immense challenge of regulate global tech giant — company whose platform shape our society , economy and democracy , often with resource that dwarf those of government . for example , the UK ' s entire public sector budget be about equal to Meta ' s market capitalisation . as the representative of the british people , it be essential that Parliament understand the impact of these company , and be able to scrutinise their action and regulate they in the public interest , where necessary . however , the Committee experience significant challenge in seek to do that during the course of the inquiry . we be reassure by statement from Google , Meta , TikTok and x in our evidence session that they accept their responsibility to be accountable to the british people through Parliament , and we hope to see that in practice as our work in this area continue . the horrific attack in Southport on 29 July 2024 and the violent unrest that follow be a stark reminder of the real - world consequence of the viral spread of online misinformation . hateful and misleading content spread rapidly , amplify by opaque recommendation algorithm . protest turn violent , often target muslim and migrant community , drive in part by the spread of these message . these event provide a snapshot of how online activity can contribute to real - world violence and hate . many part of the long - await Online Safety Act 2023 be not fully in force at the time of the riot , but the Committee find little evidence that they would have make a difference if they be . moreover , the Act be out of date . it regulate at a technology and content level , rather than on principle or outcome , and therefore fail to adequately address generative artificial intelligence — chatgpt , deep fake and synthetic misinformation — even as it become cheap and easy to access . Generative AI will make the next misinformation crisis much more dangerous . have spend six year work for Ofcom before enter Parliament , I believe strongly that regulate technology do not work . our online safety regime should be base on principle that remain sound in the face of technological development . social medium have make many important and positive contribution , help to democratise access to a public voice and connect people far and wide . it also have significant risk . the advertisement - base business model of most social medium company mean that they promote engage content , often regardless of its authenticity . that spill out across the entire internet via the unclear , under - regulate digital advertising market , incentivise the creation of content that will perform well on social medium , as we see during the 2024 unrest . this be not just a social media problem ; it be a systemic issue that promote harmful content and undermine public trust . our concern be exacerbate when we question representative of regulator and the Government . we be meet with confusion and contradiction at high level , and it become evident that the UK ' s online safety regime have some major hole . after four public session , more than 80 write submission and extensive deliberation , our finding be clear : the british people be not adequately protect from online harm . we have identify five key principle that we believe be crucial for the regulation of social medium and related technology and drive our recommendation to Government . our first principle be public safety . algorithmically enhance misinformation be a danger that company , Government , law enforcement and security service need to work together to address . that be basically say that misinformation be harmful , which may sound obvious , but it have not be recognise as such . as a consequence , platform should be compel to demote fact - check misinformation and establish process to take more stringent measure during crisis . we propose that the Government carry out research into how platform should tackle misinformation and how far recommendation algorithm spread harm . furthermore , all AI content should be visibly label . our second principle be free and safe expression . step to tackle amplify misinformation should be in line with the fundamental right to free expression , and measure to meet misinformation must align with that right . our third principle be responsibility . user should be hold liable for what they post online , but the platform on which they post be also responsible and should be hold accountable for the impact of the amplification of harmful content . that may sound obvious — indeed , it be not the first time that a Select Committee have say this — yet widespread uncertainty remain as to whether platform have a responsibility for the legal content that they host and distribute . the report recommend that platform be oblige to undertake risk assessment and report on content that be legal but harmful . new regulatory oversight , clear and enforceable standard and proportionate penalty be need to cover the process of digital advertising . our fourth principle be control . critically , user should have control over both their personal datum and what they see online . we recommend that user have a right to reset the datum use by platform recommendation algorithm . our fifth and final principle be transparency . the technology use by social medium company , include recommendation algorithm and generative AI , should be transparent , accessible and explainable to public authority . transparency be need for participant in the digital advertising market . basically , if we can not explain it , we can not understand the harm it may do . I be a tech evangelist : I believe that technology , like politic , be an engine of progress , but that do not mean we have to accept it as it be . our report set out detailed recommendation to ensure that we do not have a repeat of the violent and harmful riot last year . we urge the Government to acknowledge that the Online Safety Act be not fit for purpose ; to adopt these five principle to build a strong , future - proof online safety regime , with clear , enforceable standard for social medium platform ; and to implement our recommendation . without action , it be only a matter of time before we face another crisis like the Southport riot , or even bad . I thank the hon . Lady and the Select Committee that she chair for deliver this important review . I also thank she for her statement to the House , which have highlight the scale of the challenge we face in relation to the proliferation of mislead and harmful content online . I join she in put out my prayer and sympathy to all those affect by the horror in Southport last year . give the report ' s finding that young people be particularly susceptible to misleading and harmful content and online radicalisation , due to the stage of their cognitive development , do the hon . Lady consider that the Government should commit to conduct a review of the evidential case for raise the digital age of consent for social medium platform from 13 to 16 ? I thank the hon . member for his comment . I also thank he for highlight the particular issue of young people , their cognitive development and the lack of protection they enjoy from misinformation as a consequence . the Committee do not recommend that the Government should commit to a review , but we be consider a further inquiry into the impact on the cognitive development of young people . I be sure that we will have recommendation with regard to that as a consequence . I thank my hon . friend and her Committee for highlight the challenge we face in scrutinise powerful technology company . as she know , I be particularly concerned about suicide and self - harm - relate content . in 2022 , more than three quarter of the individual survey by Samaritans say that they first see self - harm content online at the age of 14 or young , often without search for it . worryingly , 76 % say that they self - harm more severely after view such content online . we have take important step forward by implement the Online Safety Act , but we still face the challenge of regulate emerge technology as well as small and risky platform . do she share my concern about this issue ? what be her Committee ' s view on how we can tackle and monitor it ? I thank my hon . friend and constituency neighbour for highlight this incredibly important issue and for the work that she do in this area . she be absolutely right to say that . the Committee hear very moving and distressing evidence that suicide and self - harm content can be and have be amplify by social medium algorithm and that that can play a role in suicide and self - harm , include by young people . promote suicide be illegal , and the Online Safety Act introduce an offence of promote self - harm , but it do not do enough to tackle legal content that promote suicide or self - harm , as with the rest of legal but harmful content , such as misinformation . the Committee ' s recommendation that platform should be hold accountable for the algorithmic amplification of misinformation would address part of what my hon . friend be concerned about . we hope that in implement those recommendation , the Government would set out how they would fully address her concern . I be a member of the Select Committee over which the hon . Lady preside as Chair , and I thank she and all the staff who help with this report and inquiry . I know that many of we in this place wear not one , but multiple hat ; I also sit on the Joint Committee on Human Rights , and we be do an inquiry into AI and human right . some of the work from this report will be helpful and inform we in look at some of the key issue , so , with another hat on , I thank she for that . one of the evidence session that have stick with I from work on the report be when we have social medium company boss in front of we . they talk about how they remove most of the content within 10 minute in 90 % of case , but they do not accept responsibility for the proliferation of that datum , information and content outside their own sphere . what worry I be that , at a time when we have advance technology and a great pace of change and we need to maintain regulation at a breakneck pace , company — particularly social medium company — be unravel and unpick their content note , their monitoring and how they look for and remove information that might be harmful . do the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee agree that we need to do more in regulate current approach and ensure that the company do not backslide on their obligation ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , my fellow Committee member , for that question , as well as for his contribution to this report and the work of the Committee , which have be exceedingly valuable . he have raise a really important point ; we hear evidence from Meta about Facebook content check , and how outside the UK and the US it be move from fact - check to community note , which x have also do . the Committee have recommend adopt the principle that platform be hold accountable , which must go hand in hand with those platform set out how they can demonstrate that accountability . the report also recommend that the Government undertake research into what effective fact - check look like and how misinformation be spread , because one of the thing that the Committee — which be a scientific Committee — observe be the lack of real evidence in thar area . that be partly because the algorithm and platform be so opaque and secretive about how they operate . I thank my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee , of which I be also a member . this report make vital recommendation to Government and social medium community about how we can make the online world safe . I be particularly concerned about the impact on young people . do my hon . friend agree that harm be happen today ? young people will be go home from school with harmful content be push at they . do she agree that social medium company should not wait for Government to implement these recommendation , but should get on with implement they today to stop that harm happen to child across this country ? I thank my hon . friend , both for his outstanding contribution to the report and the Committee ' s work and for his question . he be absolutely right — we should not have to force the online company to take action . they can see the evidence , and they can read this report . they know what be happen to the brain of young people . they should be able to implement the recommendation of the report without wait for Government action , although I very much believe that government action will be necessary to ensure those recommendation be implement across all platform . our Committee ' s evidence support the conclusion that social medium business model , particularly the use of recommendation algorithm that push user to see more extreme content and misinformation , incentivise the spread of dangerous content and , consequently , behaviour . as both a member of the Committee and co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on artificial intelligence — I be another Member who wear many hat — I welcome our Committee ' s conclusion that user and social medium platform should be hold accountable for the impact that their amplification cause . do my hon . friend agree that the report provide clear recommendation to the Government and regulator as to how those platform should be hold accountable , include labelling of all AI - generate content and new regulatory oversight with clear , enforceable standard and penalty ? accountability must have tooth . I thank my hon . friend for her contribution to the Committee ' s report — her understanding and knowledge of AI have be invaluable . she be absolutely right that AI content must be label , and that the platform and content generator must take action to address this issue now , because the risk be only go to increase . I look forward to the Government ensure that enforcement have tooth for those platform that do not take action or be too reckless in the action they take . I thank my hon . friend for her Committee ' s report , and the team behind it who have draft it . the report contain concern and recommendation about digital marketing . WhatsApp be a direct communication tool , for good and for bad , which very few people engage with as though it be a classic social medium platform such as Facebook , Instagram or x ; it be a place for private conversation , and Meta pride itself on its datum be encrypt and secure . have say that it would not do so , Meta will now start serve up ad under the guise of advertiser want to go where their audience be , which translate as organisation want to make more money through target marketing , include Meta , which have 3 billion user of WhatsApp worldwide . if we have our WhatsApp connect to Facebook and Instagram , we may get more personalised ad . never have I want to disconnect my WhatsApp from my Instagram and Facebook more . already , when we click on Instagram , it follow we to our Facebook feed . there be no escape it , so view be be shape and influence relentlessly by the organisation that drive the most revenue to the platform owner . with reference to the recommendation in this report about control digital advertising , do my hon . friend agree that we should be able to communicate with our love one without be constantly sell to and influence , and that we should always have option to opt out for the sake of our own mental health ? I thank my hon . friend for champion safe and effective technology , and for the point she have make . she be absolutely right . first , it be essential that the technology be properly regulate , and that regulation be base on principle , so WhatsApp and user - to - user communication should be subject to the same principle - base regulatory environment as content communication . secondly , we must be able to opt out , and to reset the algorithm that drive the advertising we receive . thirdly and finally , digital advertising be unfortunately a free - for - all , with very little regulation or control . if consumer be to be adequately protect , that need to change . accountability for Daesh Crimes Joint Committee on Human Rights Select Committee statement we now come to the second Select Committee statement , on behalf of the Joint Committee on Human Rights . Tom Gordon will speak for up to 10 minute , during which time no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee member , not to the relevant Government Minister . Front Benchers may also take part in questioning . I be grateful to the Government for engage with the Joint Committee on Human Rights report , " accountability for Daesh crime " , and for the response they have provide . there be some area of welcome agreement ; for instance , the Government have reiterate their commitment to ensure justice for survivor . they rightly agree that where there be evidence of international crime such as genocide , individual should be prosecute for those crime , not merely for terrorism offence that fail to capture the full horror and scale of what have take place . however , let I be clear : for all the Government ' s assurance , we be still leave with the sobering reality that not one single daesh fighter have yet be prosecute in the UK for genocide , crime against humanity , or war crime of any sort . the UK be a signatory to the genocide convention ; we be one of its founding champion . we can not continue to rely on theoretical commitment to it , while outsource accountability to other jurisdiction , or to international court with limited reach and resource . the Government ' s response repeatedly emphasise that prosecution be well pursue " close to where crime occur " , but where that be not happen — and in many case it be not — the UK can not , and must not , turn a blind eye . if a british national take part in genocide abroad and return to the UK , they should face justice here . there must be no safe haven for perpetrator of international crime , especially not on UK soil . turn to universal jurisdiction , I be disappointed that the Government have reject the recommendation to amend the International Criminal Court Act 2001 to remove the limitation base on nationality and residency . what be recommend be not a radical departure from established practice . this be about close a clear loophole that allow perpetrator of genocide and other international crime to escape justice simply because of where they be from . the UK exercise universal jurisdiction for torture , and for grave breach of the Geneva convention , so why not for genocide ? this be not just a legal oversight ; it be a failure of political will that continue to undermine survivor ' access to justice . the Government claim that sufficient co - ordination exist between the Crown Prosecution Service and the war crime team , but despite the structure have be in place since 2019 , we be yet to see any meaningful outcome . structure alone be not enough . survivor want justice , not process . Co - ordination must be measure by result , and so far , the result be zero prosecution for international crime . I be also deeply concerned by the Government ' s stance on citizenship deprivation . the assertion that there be sufficient transparency do not hold up to scrutiny . the public deserve regular , accessible reporting , and Parliament deserve the ability to scrutinise use of this powerful and exceptional tool . deprivation of citizenship should never be a substitute for due process , or a way of quietly absolve ourselves of responsibility for british national be involve in atrocity crime overseas . finally , I come to british national , include child , detain in north - east Syria . we note the Government ' s repeat statement about the practical challenge , and I acknowledge the complexity of the security environment , but the absence of precise public datum , the slow pace of repatriation , and the ambiguity around the next step on those detain and potential prosecution remain deeply troubling . these child be british national . some be orphan , and other be at risk of radicalisation and violence . leave they in indefinite limbo in unsafe camp be a moral and strategic failure . the UK should lead with humanity , clarity and resolve . if we be serious about uphold the rule of law ; if we mean what we say about the genocide convention ; and if we truly honour the memory and suffering of Yazidi survivor and other victim of Daesh crime , we must go far than warm word and procedural reassurance . we need action , prosecution and leadership . the Government have the opportunity to turn rhetoric into reality . I urge Ministers to reconsider the case for universal jurisdiction , for great transparency , and for a clear , more co - ordinate path to justice . that be our moral and legal obligation , and we owe nothing less to survivor . Bill Presented Planning and Development ( Community Infrastructure ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Ben Maguire present a Bill to require housing developer to construct any planned community infrastructure before commence construction of housing with which the plan community infrastructure be associate ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 290 ) . Backbench Business Global Plastics Treaty [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee on 8 July , on prevent waste and enable a circular economy , HC 929 ; correspondence between the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and the parliamentary Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , on the Global Plastics Treaty , report to the House on 15 July . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider the Global Plastics Treaty . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for make time available for this debate , and for allocate the debate to the main Chamber . that be an important signal that the House be in political consensus on the issue , and we attach a great deal of importance to that . I thank those member who support the application for the debate to the Backbench Business Committee , in particular my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) . she have a long and distinguished record of campaign on this issue , but be unfortunately unable to be here . I also express my appreciation for the support of the various campaigner — organisation and individual — who have keep this issue in the public consciousness for so long , not always in the easy of circumstance . at this turn of the wheel , I particularly thank Greenpeace UK for the assistance of its campaigner Rudy Schulkind , but in the past , I have a private member ' s Bill on the subject , and that be support by a whole range of organisation , from the woman ' s institute through to friend of the Earth . we have to call that a broad - base consensus . this debate be timely . the next round of talk on the UN global plastic treaty will be hold in Geneva between 5 and 14 August . the Government , I be happy to acknowledge , have a good story to tell , and in fairness , they inherit the record of the previous Government , who also accord some political importance to this issue . the message I want the Chamber to send today be that the Government have to do all that they can — not just in present the UK case , but in support other . for those of we who , like I , come from island and coastal community , the growth of plastic pollution have be obvious for year . ahead of this debate , I get an email just a couple of day ago from a constituent of mine , Jim Chalmers , who say : " I can remember as a child beachcombe around the south end of Stronsay , and come across the occasional unfamiliar plastic bottle and be intrigue by its novelty . it might have be an empty washing - up liquid bottle of a kind unknown in our household or even have word in a foreign language . " fast - forward to 2025 , and the position be very different on the beach of the Orkney and Shetland coastline , and right around the coastline of all european country . even when we go out on a beach that look pretty clear and pristine , if we start pick up the small piece of plastic , 10 or 15 minute later , we have a carrier bag full of they . in Orkney and Shetland , we have a great range of community initiative to tackle this issue . in Orkney , we have the " bag the bruck " campaign every year . in Shetland , we have Da Voar Redd up . despite the community effort and people take responsibility for stretch of coastline and pick up the rubbish , week later , it be as if almost nobody have ever be there . the tipping point for public consciousness on this issue be the " Blue Planet " series by Sir David Attenborough a few year ago . that create sufficient public pressure , so that in 2022 , there be a decision by 175 country to develop an internationally legally bind instrument to address the problem of plastic pollution . that matter on so many level , and it be why the word " global " be central to the treaty . plastic as an industry emit more carbon than the entire global aviation and shipping industry . the question we should ask ourselves be : what exactly do " good " look like at the conclusion of the talk in Geneva ? I can not improve on the fine summary in the briefing from the Environmental Investigation Agency and Greenpeace ahead of today ' s debate . they state that we should be look for : " a global target to reduce production of primary plastic polymer and related element such as reporting and national measure . " reduce production be critical ; I will return to that in a minute or two . they also call for a " clear and legally bind obligation to phase out the most harmful plastic product and chemical of concern in plastic … a binding obligation to improve the design of plastic product and ensure they cause minimum environmental impact and safeguard human health , include support reuse … provision of ambitious finance ( ' effective mean of implementation ' ) in particular for least Developed Countries and Small Island Developing States " . finally , they call for : " use regular UN procedure for decision - make if all effort at consensus have be exhaust " . if we can achieve something along those line in Geneva , we will have some cause for optimism . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on secure this important debate . he have outline the important global action that we need to take on plastic . do he agree that this Government ' s action to bring forward a deposit return scheme will help address some of these issue ? it will ensure that we can recycle plastic , and that will take they off the street and beach , where they be end up . yes , if it be a properly construct , nationwide deposit return scheme . the experience in Scotland be , shall we say , not everything that it might have be . a properly construct scheme will be critical . I see the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) , on the Front Bench , and I know she have a tremendous personal commitment to this issue . this be about create a circular economy . I know there be a genuine commitment to that in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , and a deposit return scheme would very much sit within that . we talk about such measure be somehow in conflict with business . importantly , the fundamental truth be that the good opportunity for business come from have a circular economy . we can make not just an environmental and social case for that , but a business case . ensure that the treaty have the strong possible reduction target will be absolutely critical . that be where the contention have arise in previous round of talk , and we can anticipate that the same argument will be rehearse . the most important point to address , however , be the idea that somehow the whole thing will be fix by recycle and that we can just keep produce virgin plastic at an exponential rate . we reckon that the current exceptionally high level will treble by 2060 if we do not do anything to arrest the increase . we can not manage to fix it all by recycle , and the people who advance that idea — particularly those who work for the big plastic company and the petrochemical company — be downright disingenuous . give the vast number of different plastic that be available and the different polymer combination , they know just how difficult it be to actually recycle plastic . this country have a good record on collect plastic for recycling , but the truth of the matter be that we recycle very little of it . we export a horrible amount of it — I think we export 598 million kilogram for recycle in 2024 . of course , once it be export , we do not know if it get recycle or not , and we completely lose control of it . then we have the growth of incineration . the number of incinerator have grow from 38 to 52 in the last five year alone , drive by the growth in plastic . I be afraid the idea that recycle alone be go to be the silver bullet will not lead to the meaningful reduction that we know we need , so we need a cap on production . we also understand that one of the big barrier in Geneva be go to be the role of the plastic industry itself . it be exceptionally well resource , and it be root downstream of the oil and gas industry . personally , I be pragmatic about the use of oil and gas . until we have other technology that can take its place , it be foolish to push our oil and gas industry off the shelf , but I be afraid I see little to commend in its behaviour . have the industry ' s representative all come as one delegation to the last round of talk in Korea , it would have be the large delegation at the talk . I be pleased to say that the UK delegation be the gold standard in this space . it be well resource , and be well inform by scientific adviser , but that be not a cause for complacency or smugness . we have to see that it give we an opportunity to help and support other . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , which I chair , take evidence on the global plastic treaty just last week , on 8 July , and some of what I hear be genuinely shocking . Professor Richard Thompson OBE , who be a fellow of the Royal Society and a professor of marine biology at the University of Plymouth , say : " moreover , scientist I work with have be threaten on UN premise as part of these negotiation . almost what I would consider a fundamental right to science and to access science be be deny . it particularly fall on some of the small nation . DEFRA be very well bless in that it can afford to send a big delegation of highly train scientist , which be fantastic , but they stand alongside small island develop nation , which perhaps only have one individual there . the need for a science mechanism be actually mandate in UNEA 5 / 14 , and we need it really urgently to address this issue . " it be one of those moment when I have to stop and say , " just a second , do you say what I think you say there ? " even after we have explain to he his position as an eminent scientist give evidence to a Select Committee of the House of Commons , with all the protection of privilege , he be not comfortable call out in detail what be happen . the fact of the matter be that we know that it be happen . if we be to get this treaty across the line , UK need to be robust not just in present our own case , but in support and protect those who be less fortunate than we be : the small island nation , the campaigner and the scientist who be there on their own finance . my final ask be that there should be a ministerial presence at the negotiation in Geneva , which would be a really important signal that the Government could send about the seriousness of their intent . Madam Deputy Speaker , you say I would speak for 15 minute and I think I have have 14 , so I will return to the email that I get from Jim Chalmers . he go on to say : " I ' m sure I have a reputation as that weird guy that carry a bag with he when he ' s out with the dog , pick up litter ( I call it recyclate ) . however , I know fine I ' m urinate into the wind " — he do not actually say " urinating " — " as I have no control whatsoever over the source of the stuff and the force that encourage and permit its grow release . I appreciate that the 17th of this month be not a good time for you to be away from Orkney " — there be never a good time to be away from Orkney — " but if you can somehow bring any influence to bear , I would feel my effort aren ' t totally in vain . " it be for people like my constituent Mr Chalmers and his like right across this country that we be here today . we pin our hope and their hope on the effort of the Government and like - minded country to get the treaty that we know we need and that our planet deserve . I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure this debate . I know he be deeply committed to this issue . I want to draw attention to a part of this crisis that be often overlook but no less urgent : microplastic , which I know the Minister be passionate about too . these tiny fragment , much small than a grain of rice , be everywhere . they have reach the depth of our ocean and the high mountain peak , and the harm they cause be far from small . we know from science that microplastic be be eat by fish , bird and insect . they harm wildlife from the inside out by disrupt feeding , damage organ and carry toxic chemical , and the impact do not just stay in the wild . it spread through ecosystem and food chain , and into our own body . what trouble I the most be that microplastic be largely invisible . we can not see they , but we be live with they every day . this be not just a global problem ; it be a local one too . in Stafford , we be really lucky to have place such as the Doxey marsh , Staffordshire and Worcestershire canal , and the River Sow , which weave through our town and village . these be place where family walk their dog , child paddle in the water , angler fish and wildlife thrive . they be not just part of our landscape , but part of who we be . my hon . friend be give an incredibly powerful speech . microplastic be also part of what we be wear , and microfibre be a key part of the problem with plastic . I wonder if , like I , she be interested in what the French have do to get company to disclose when microfibre be part of the material use in clothing . in order to tackle the " fast fashion " crisis , people need to understand what they be wear and the damage that microplastic can do to our environment . I be not familiar with the legislation that France have pass . when I buy clothe , I try to make sure that I buy natural fibre , which can be tough to do — I find that I really have to search for they . we could look at introduce similar legislation , which sound like a very sensible piece of work . the space I be talk about be now under threat . when I talk to resident in my constituency — from Eccleshall and Gnosall to Baswich — they all tell I that they be really worried . they want their child and grandchild to grow up enjoy clean water , healthy wildlife and safe green space , so they be right to demand action . that be why I think microplastic must be a core part of any global plastic treaty . it be not enough to tackle the waste we can see ; we also need to tackle the waste we can not see . I welcome the work of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , and I look forward to its recommendation . I know I be speak to Ministers who listen very carefully on this subject and consider it incredibly important , but I urge they to continue to act , because we have a responsibility to lead and a duty to protect the place we call home . we owe it to future generation to make sure that the River Penk still support life , that our farmland remain healthy and that the natural beauty of Stafford — and other place , too — do not become a victim of short - term decision . this be our chance now , so let we not waste it . the world produce over 460 million tonne of plastic each year . on our current trajectory , plastic pollution be set to triple by 2040 , and every year 11 million tonne of plastic go into our ocean . in Devon , this picture be very obvious . accord to the Marine Conservation Society ' s data , an average of 103 litter item be find per 100 metre of beach in Devon . the vast majority be single - use plastic and packaging , and anyone take the very wise decision to have a holiday in Devon this year will see from it themselves . I have see it for myself . when I wander along the beach of Sidmouth , Seaton and Beer , I see bottle and wrapper wash up with the tide , wedge between pebble and entangle in seaweed . we be very fortunate to have some fantastic volunteer , with group such as the Sidmouth Plastic Warriors , who give freely of their time to clean our beach . on its most recent outing last month , 30 people pick up an incredible 70 bag of litter . their work be extraordinary , but there should not be 70 bag of plastic litter on the beach of Sidmouth . of course , the problem do not start on the beach . it start in how we produce and consume plastic in the first place , but there be serious shortcoming in the UK ' s recycling . we be sell a myth that if we just spend a little bit of time each week sort our rubbish , the problem would take care of itself . however , in 2024 CleanHub report that the UK export 600 , 000 tonne of plastic waste to country around the world to be recycle , and these place do not have the infrastructure to recycle properly . much of this be burn or dump , and we have see evidence that it be pollute other country ' ecosystem , while we tick a box and say it have be recycle . on this important point about the capacity of different country to hit certain standard , the hon . Gentleman may have reprocessor — company that take plastic waste and repurpose it — in his constituency . an important part of this debate have to be about packaging recovery note and package export recovery note , which provide an equivalence , but waste be often take to country such as Turkey that have much low standard than in this country , which be bad not only for british business , but for the global environment . I think the Government be work on that , and I would love to hear a bit more about that from the Minister , but what do the hon . Gentleman have to say about it ? the hon . Member make a very good point . the business of our standard be very different be one we should look at first . these note plainly need to be look at , and we will have to go about some international negotiation to try to improve standard elsewhere . the UK have high recycling standard internationally , but it be not acceptable to simply offshore the problem , which do not serve any of we well . not only be plastic waste a hazard to people , but it be kill seabird , as well as hundred of thousand of sea mammal , turtle and fish , and it be have a devastating impact on our environment more broadly . do the hon . Member agree that the Government ' s ban of disposable plastic vape be another way we can help reduce this plastic waste ? the hon . Member make an excellent point . I vote in favour of that initiative when it come before we , and the banning of disposable plastic vape be very welcome . too much waste still end up in incinerator . sometimes , what we think will be repurpose or recycle be in fact burn . the number of incinerator in the UK have rise from 38 to 52 in the last five year . this be the dirty form of energy production , release more greenhouse gas than any other method . while my constituent may have be enjoy their ice cream at Seaton or walk the south - west coast path during the recent heatwave , these hotter summer be a stark reminder of our collective failure to tackle climate change . if we can increase the amount of plastic we reuse and create the circular economy that my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) mention , we can use less disposable plastic and less single - use plastic , and therefore reduce carbon emission . Germany be the lead recycler of municipal waste in the European Union , which be partly down to its deposit refund scheme . recycle rate on plastic bottle have reach an outstanding 98 % in Germany . I have to acknowledge that it be thank to the measure the Government introduce in January that a deposit return scheme for plastic and metal container will go live in the UK in 2027 . this scheme , which will offer a small refund for return bottle and can in the UK , be a practical step towards reuse plastic . although national action be welcome , we need to match our own UK action with international action , and the UK can be a real leader in this space . we can press for our ambition to be match by other country in the global plastic treaty negotiation . we must push for legally bind target to reduce plastic production elsewhere , not just voluntary pledge . we offshore a lot of our production — include to China , which account for 40 % of the world ' s plastic production . we know that the carbon emission produce as a result be staggering , and we must do something about they . if the Government be serious about deepen tie with Beijing , they must also be serious about hold it to account , and that start with apply pressure at the global plastic treaty negotiation next month . as we know , the US President have never be a great advocate for tackle climate change or reduce plastic waste . he make that abundantly clear in his attention - seek stunt in February , when he proudly bring back plastic straw . at the head of delegation meet early this month , the US backtrack on its previous position . it walk away from early commitment on control measure and financing , and come out firmly against plastic production cap . the Prime Minister have explicitly cite family value as a foundation of his strong relationship with the US President . could the Minister urge the Prime Minister to leverage that personal connection , and ask the President to consider not just global leadership , but the world that his own family will inherit ? we have to consider young people in this picture , and for that we will need serious and concrete commitment at the global plastic treaty negotiation . the hon . Gentleman be make a very good speech , much of which I agree with . I be sure that he , like I , visit many school . do he agree that when he visit they and speak to young people , they be very , very concerned about the environment , and in particular plastic pollution ? in many way , our great hope be that their laser focus on this issue will be reflect in the policy of future generation and that plastic production be reduce . the hon . Gentleman be dead right . child from Sidmouth primary school write to I early in the year , urge I to advocate for reduce plastic use and for cut down our plastic use . I quote they in a debate and the Minister for Nature , who be no long in her place , sum up the debate with their word . let we be honest : voluntary effort have fail . the World Wildlife Fund report that in the past five year plastic pollution have increase by 50 % , despite a 60 % rise in national and voluntary initiative . the treaty must therefore tackle the source of the problem — the production of plastic — and confront the power of the fossil fuel lobby , which be desperately try to water down the talk . at last year ' s round of negotiation , 220 fossil fuel lobbyist be present in Busan . their goal be to protect their own profit , not the planet . we can not allow short - term commercial interest to derail the long - term health of our ocean and community . plastic production be forecast to triple by 2040 . if we do not act , no recycling scheme will be enough . I will hand my last paragraph to the child at Sidmouth primary school . they want to see " deed , not word " . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) ; we usually sit together on the Foreign Affairs Committee . nowhere be global co - operation more important than on climate work . I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure this important debate and for his brilliant speech , which eloquently set out why this issue be so important . my hon . friend the Member for Stafford — not to be confuse with Stratford — ( Leigh Ingham ) speak about microplastic . last year , my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) have a debate on that very topic , in which many of we speak . follow that , last November , ahead of the previous round of treaty negotiation in Busan , hon . member come together to debate the same issue . now , at the final round of negotiation , we have come back together . country be on the verge of finalise a potentially powerful international agreement , but its impact will be limit unless it address the root of the problem : plastic production . UN estimate suggest that in the two and a half year since the treaty negotiation start , globally we have produce over 1 billion metric tonne of plastic . the scale be staggering and almost unimaginable , but one thing be clear : no amount of recycling and reuse can keep up with the scale of plastic waste we be produce . if we do not act , collectively and urgently , the crisis will only escalate . plastic production be project to triple by 2060 . our climate , our ecosystem and our planet can not cope . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland mention the impact on our ecosystem and our beach , and my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) mention single - use item , such as disposable vape and disposable fan . one be dump in Britain every 90 second . Most end up in the global south in landfill , risk massive environmental damage . I be proud to have sit on the Committee , lead by the Minister , that consider the legislation to ban this . that be the Labour Government take real action . there be interest group work to undermine our ambition . have participate in international biodiversity and climate talk , both in my previous role before I enter this House and since , I have see at first hand what that look like : voice in the room determine to stall talk and undermine global and national ambition . as we have hear , the shocking truth be that 220 fossil fuel lobbyist be present at the last round of talk on the plastic treaty . take together , fossil fuel and chemical industry lobbyist would have be the single large delegation present : large than the EU and all its member state ' delegation ; and large than all those for Latin America . the fossil fuel industry outnumber delegate from the Pacific small island state two to one . those nation already see the effect of marine plastic pollution and be already pay the price for our inaction . we can not allow the voice of the fossil fuel industry to be loud than the cry of our planet , or more influential than the testimony of science . we can not allow it to be more powerful than the voice of our constituent and those want to create a more sustainable future for generation to come . in London , we have show that another future be possible . it require bold leadership , and we be one such example of that . we be the world - lead city in eliminate single - use plastic from large sport and music venue , include " ABBA Voyage " in my constituency and locally - lead movement like Plastic Free Forest Gate , which work with business on the high street to get rid of single - use plastic item , and Plastic Free Roman Road . I also have some eco - warrior in one of my local school in Maryland . last week , I meet a group of constituent from Stratford and Bow at the climate coalition lobby in Parliament . Mary tell I that she be there to lobby for an end to our dependency on fossil fuel . she be there for her four grandchild — for their future . my constituent be clear : the time to act be now . we must put the people on our planet before the pollute industry . my constituency be home to an Earthshot prize - win company , Notpla . the last time I mention Notpla in Parliament , it have single - handedly remove 21 million item of single - use plastic — and count — use its innovative seaweed - base alternative ; today , that number have rise to 26 million item . the ambition exist , but we all need to seize this moment . the cost of inaction be mass climate displacement , environmental destruction and worsen global instability . I thank the Minister and the Government for their continue commitment to the UK ' s global leadership in push for an ambitious treaty . I join Members from across the House in call for all member state to agree to legally bind measure to address the production and consumption of plastic , and finally to deliver a treaty that meet the scale of the crisis for our planet . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for bring forward this valuable and important debate . I use to work as a Wiltshire councillor on the issue of plastic recycling . my constituency , like all our constituency , can be blight by the sight of waste plastic by the roadside . it be clear that bold action be need to tackle the sheer amount of plastic pollution that we have create both at home and abroad . that be why we must join and support the global plastic treaty in an international effort to reduce plastic waste , to promote sustainable , eco - friendly production , and to protect our ocean and wildlife for future generation . in the spirit of embrace such bold action , we must embrace innovation . chemical recycling , for instance , give we a way to break down plastic into their fundamental building block , create a new plastic circular economy . Mura Technology be just one of a number of company do that today in the UK . however , such innovation need to be pay for . on the basis of the " polluter pay " principle , plastic producer must be tax so that the problem they produce can be fix . for user of plastic product — whether it be the film use to cover our cucumber , or the plastic that contain our crisp or wrap our chocolate bar — a small tax need to be add to ensure that wrapper do not become a blight on the environment . we create the problem , and I believe we can fix it . a number of my constituent in South Derbyshire have write to I , deeply distressed over the crisis of plastic pollution in South Derbyshire ' s waterway , include in the River Trent and the Foremark and Staunton Harold reservoir , and in our farmland , where farmer — already deal with increase flood due to the climate crisis — be leave to deal with waste . to give credit where it be due , my constituent be also pleased to see responsible action to reduce plastic use . at Bearded Theory , a music festival hold at Catton Hall in Walton - on - Trent , the organiser use only reusable polypropylene cup that be take off site to be wash and reuse year after year . pollution be a global problem . there be not one corner of the world that have not be affect by the over - production of plastic — microplastic be ubiquitous ; they have even be find in Antarctica — yet plastic production be project to triple by 2060 . only 9 % of plastic globally be recycle . Most of the UK ' s plastic be incinerate , with the number of incinerator surge from 38 to 52 in the past five year . Incineration be the dirty form of energy production in the UK , contribute to greenhouse gas that heat our planet and release toxic fume that have serious and harmful health impact . in South Derbyshire , we be expect the result of an appeal into the propose Swadlincote incinerator at Stanton by the end of July . I stand with my constituent in oppose the building of a new incinerator , but we also need to reduce our waste . the east midland be the second bad region in the country for waste , with derbyshire the bad offender . if we have less plastic , we would have less waste , and there would be no justification at all for any new incinerator . ahead of the next round of talk on the UN plastic treaty in Geneva in August , I urge the Government to continue to be ambitious in cut plastic production . we will fail future generation if we accept a water - down agreement . I call on the Government to introduce immediately a UK - wide moratorium on new incineration capacity and to secure a strong global target to cut plastic production at the UN plastic treaty negotiation . public support for action could not be strong . More than 220 , 000 people across the UK take part in the big plastic count last year — a remarkable display of citizen science , which lay bare just how pervasive and persistent plastic be in our daily life . More than 600 , 000 people have sign Greenpeace UK ' s petition call for a strong , meaningful treaty . that be a public mandate that this House can not ignore . as Members of Parliament , we have a duty to act both for the constituent whom we represent today and for future generation to come . plastic pollution choke our ocean , poison wildlife and break down into microplastic that we find in our soil , our food , and our body . I urge the Government to reject half measure . let we seize this moment to put people and planet before plastic . let we use this opportunity for green job investment and move far towards a circular economy that necessitate less packaging and secure a legacy that future generation will thank we for , instead of the one that leave so many young people fearful for their future . we can not let they down . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure this debate . let I highlight one point that he make about the circular economy . he say that if we get the regulation and the incentive right , it would be good not only for the environment , but for business and the economy . that be an important point to keep emphasise . I would like to use the short amount of time that I have to talk about how we can connect this global issue to our local community . let I start with the global problem . every year , more than 12 million tonne of plastic be dump in our ocean — I do hear 11 million tonne from my right hon . friend . whichever it be , it be obviously on a huge scale . this be not just a statistic ; it represent an utter crisis — one that affect marine life , ecosystem , and , ultimately , we as well . to many people , a UN treaty might seem a bit abstract and remote . some will even go as far as say that it be not worth the debate time in this Chamber because it be too hard to imagine the average person bring it up on the doorstep . however , I do not think that be right , because it matter and the population have show that they care about this issue . my right hon . Friend mention the popularity of attenborough ' s tv documentary and how that have ignite people ' s interest . I certainly have this issue raise time and again with I . People have also notice the impact on their local environment . unlike my right hon . friend , I do not have ocean anywhere near my London constituency , but I have a beautiful chalk stream that run all the way through it . People see the litter and they care about it , and they see the plastic damage in particular . we have introduce new monitoring system to understand the damage that some of these microplastic can do . People be incredibly proud of their local surrounding , and it be not too big a step for they to think about the ocean across the world when they be think about their local area . as have already be mention , not just adult be start to care more . this be a totemic issue for the next generation . I recently receive a bundle of passionate letter from a year 4 class at Culvers House primary school . I say passionate because , at time , I think they be a little harsh on I . I will not take it personally , because I think they be direct their anger at politician in general . they be at pain to point out that we be not do enough or move fast enough . they be quite clear about their demand , and they go into a lot of detail . they tell I about their concern for our ocean , for the turtle and fish that be harm by plastic , and for the future of the planet . read their letter one afternoon , I find they pretty powerful and it remind I of the duty that we all have to act now . when we talk about the global plastic treaty , it be important that we keep make it relevant to our local community . it be clearly a once - in - a - generation opportunity to create a legally bind agreement that tackle plastic processing at every stage of the lifecycle . for the agreement to work , it have to be ambitious , enforceable , and support by everybody . take the public with we on this issue be go to get more difficult . there be people even in this Chamber who will push back against it , say that it be a waste of time , that it be a problem to be solve by other elsewhere , but we will have to keep build that support . in do so , we have to reverse where the pressure be bring to bear . for a long time , the pressure have be on all of we to be more responsible consumer . consumer have play their part . they have be willing to put up with recycle yoghurt pot , wash they out in the sink . they have take on wooden fork and spoon . they have even put up with paper straw . they have do so , despite the pain that all of those thing can be compare with what we have before . they have play their part and now it be our turn in this place to put the pressure back on to producer to make sure that they play their part as well . that do not mean that we should not listen to producer when they highlight problem with the scheme we create — for instance , the Government ' s extend producer responsibility scheme , which be mean to introduce financial responsibility across the full lifecycle of product . there be sometimes issue with the implementation of scheme . I be hear from pub and the hospitality industry about the undue burden that can be place on small business , and we need to work out mechanism for correct unintended consequence of such policy . the hon . Member be make a very good speech . I agree with he about the need to take the public and business with we . in Scotland we have a real challenge with the deposit return scheme that the Scottish Government try to impose , because business be up in arm about it , and it be go to impact on the internal market . do he agree that that be an example of where it can go very badly wrong if we do not take the public and business with we ? I do agree ; if we close our ear , we will miss these problem , frustrate the public and lose their support . if we listen hard , we can fix the scheme and rescue the action we want to take in this place to help the whole environment . if we do not do that , the other side will win the argument and shut down the sort of initiative we need to see . we need to keep listen as we introduce these scheme and make sure that the public and small business do not feel fatigued by they . I hope I be make clear that this be not just about treaty and target but about protect our river and ocean across the world . it be about link to our community and maintain their support and listen to the voice of young people , like those in year 4 at Culvers House primary school . I want to end with something that I have definitely steal from a work experience student this week . she say to I that we be burden future generation with plastic debt , and it be about time we start pay it back . I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for bring forward this important debate . plastic pollution be a global problem that require international co - ordination , and I think everyone in this House be agree on that . it be a serious issue and , as be the case with many member , it be one that my constituent really care about , particularly young people , who have contact I about this issue over recent week . this UK Government have already set out plan to end our throwaway society and stop the avalanche of rubbish that be fill our street , river and ocean . if I may , I want to talk briefly about some action that the Welsh Labour Government have take to tackle plastic pollution . Wales become the first nation in the UK to ban single - use plastic in 2023 as part of the Government ' s effort to tackle the climate and nature crisis and reduce plastic pollution . item such as polystyrene cup , balloon stick and cotton bud stick can no long be sell or supply in Wales . the Welsh Government have also announce plan to go far and ban wet wipe that contain plastic . that have a target date of December 2026 . I be delighted that the Welsh Government have just agree to accelerate plan for a deposit return scheme , as it will enable a scheme to be bring forward on a UK - wide basis at the same time . Wales be rank second in the world for recycle rate , which we be all very proud of . I want to put on record my thank to some of the organisation in my constituency that have do a stellar job in raise awareness of issue around plastic pollution and tackle behaviour change . I thank the Plastic Free Communities initiative in Betws - y - Coed and the village around there , and I thank the North Wales Wildlife Trust , which organise an annual beach clean - up . Trash Free Trails have also do a lot of work in this area . I also want to mention Bangor University , where the Plastic Research Centre of Wales be base , which have do a lot of work on our microplastic . as mention by my hon . friend the Members for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) and for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , microplastic be a huge issue . they have even be find on a remote lake near the top of Yr Wyddfa — Mount Snowdon . it be a super topic that the centre be dedicate to carry out research on . do my hon . friend agree that the work of community group such as the three town clean up Crew in my constituency and think about plastic Arran be crucial to fight the blight of plastic pollution and the terrible effect it be have on marine life and the wide environment ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . community group across the country , whether in Wales , Scotland or England , all play a vital role in raise awareness and clean up beach . that be really important for wildlife , which be often the victim of plastic pollution . a piece of research publish by Bangor University this year show that the combined effect of ocean warming and microplastic pollution could severely damage marine ecosystem in particular , with significant consequence not just for the climate but food security . Professor Christian Dunn , co - author of this research , say : " this be a wake - up call , but also a call to action . " we be all agree that we need urgent global action to guard against plastic pollution and that we need to work together to find solution . I look forward to the Minister ' s comment , particularly ahead of the vital meeting that will happen in Geneva next month . I be delighted to hear about all the work go on in the hon . Lady ' s community . that be also happen across the country ; dawlish against Plastic and Plastic Free Newton Abbot be in my constituency however , the Marine Conservation Society write to I to say that plastic pollution on UK beach rise by 9 . 5 % between 2023 and 2024 . indeed , in Devon , an average of 103 item of plastic be pick up on every 100 metre of beach . do she agree that we must deal with the situation not only in our community but internationally ? I agree . perhaps the Minister could address that issue when he respond to the debate . I make my comment in the context of my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure the debate . it be on an issue that resonate strongly with many resident in Edinburgh South West — it be not an overstatement to say that I be inundate with email on it . plastic be everywhere . as we have already hear , they be in construction , healthcare , clothing and furniture . it be estimate that about 14 million tonne of microplastic be lie on the ocean floor right now , and the fashion industry be among the big source . my former colleague at Heriot - Watt University in my constituency , Dr Mark Hartl , be part of a team who find microplastic in green mussel sell in traditional seafood market in Jakarta . they estimate that the human intake of microplastic from mussel ingestion range from 9 , 000 to 12 , 000 microplastic item per person per year . Mark be also part of a team that identify microplastic in seagrass in the Deerness Sound area of the constituency of the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland . it be find adhere to the blade of the seagrass in some case . elsewhere in Heriot - Watt University , a small team head by Dr Lisa Macintyre , an associate professor of textile at the university ' s school of textile and design in Galashiels in the constituency of the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , who be also in his place , have oversee painstaking research to co - develop the world ' s first visual fibre fragmentation scale . that be really important work , because fashion designer — I be not sure how many of they we have in the Chamber — can use it when select fabric for their design , to understand how likely it be that those small fibre will fall off . we know that clothing be not the only problem . global plastic production be set to triple over the next three decade , as we have hear , but our waste management structure be ill prepared to deal with that loom threat . it be therefore right that we take the plastic treaty seriously . do my hon . friend share my horror that global plastic production will double by 2050 ? he say that his constituent in Edinburgh South West feel strongly about this ; I can assure he that people across Edinburgh do . will he join I in call for a global plastic treaty that the Government should take forward as a priority ? I agree with my hon . friend . I know that it be important to his constituency , because I can remember how people be really concerned about plastic cotton bud get wash up on Portobello beach . thankfully , through change , that be now much rare , but it be still an issue . in Scotland alone it be estimate that we generate around 300 , 000 tonne of plastic packaging item annually and , as of 2021 , we be recycle only about 4 , 500 tonne of that . each month , Scotland export about 100 tonne of waste to different part of the UK and right across the world . that be an export that I be not proud of . poor planning on the part of the Scottish Government mean that , by the start of next year , 100 tonne of waste a day will be move from Scotland to England to be process . that be clearly not sustainable , but it seem that we have become all too comfortable recycling be a matter of " out of sight , out of mind . " we have to remember that once we lose sight of our waste , in many case we also lose control of what be happen to it . many resident write to I about that . even if we be to develop the processing capacity at home , deal with plastic will always be a problem so long as our consumption remain high , so a much strong focus need to be place on reuse and develop a circular economy , as we hear early , not just in Scotland but throughout the UK . in my constituency , I be proud to say that I have several organisation that promote reuse , range from share library to repair and reuse charity . I recently spend an afternoon tour one such venture call the Forge , a pop - up community maker space , base in renovated shipping container on a site in Fountainbridge , next to the canal and just along from my office . it provide tool , facility and training to people from all walk of life , include student , artist , do - it - yourself enthusiast and homeless people . when I visit , there be a young man make a hat block . I think it be for he to store his hat on , but he intend to make a pirate hat for a pirate festival , of all thing . I try to google where the pirate festival be , but it turn out that pirate festival be quite common , so it could have be almost anywhere . arrr ! thank you . as well as the hat block , I also see table , chest of drawer and even kitchen utensil be make . we could drastically cut our overreliance on plastic if we have more such initiative ; they empower we to create our own long - last alternative , reuse material and develop lifelong skill in the process . another charity in Edinburgh South West — one that be under a little bit of pressure just now — be Four Square ' s Edinburgh Furniture Initiative . it largely sell use furniture and household item , and it use its income — a non - trivial amount of money — to help solve Edinburgh ' s housing crisis . it be an absolutely fantastic project . as I note , the plastic consumption and processing economy operate across border , make this an issue that require a truly join - up approach . that be why I fully support a deposit return scheme that cover the entirety of the UK ; I look forward to its introduction in 2027 . that may not be quick enough for some people , and I respect that , but we have to balance the press need for change with the economic reality for small business , which will have to adapt to the new regulation . as other have say , if hon . member want to see how not to do this , they should just look to the Scottish Government . its scheme be an absolute embarrassment . proper consultation be important , and I think Scotland have show that . on a global level , I be proud that the Government have fully recognise the importance of tackle plastic pollution through internationally bind treaty . at the UN talk hold in South Korea last year , we support a draft text on legally bind global reduction in plastic production , and on phase out certain harmful chemical and single - use plastic . unfortunately , a consensus could not be reach , largely due to the usual suspect — China and Russia among they — all push back against those target . the negotiation will remain highly contentious as long as those country , whose economy be heavily reliant on plastic , want to hang on to it . have read Dr Lindner ' s evidence to the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee early this week , I think an inclusive two - tier model could go some way towards resolve those disagreement , if we can not get those country to be as bold and ambitious as I hope the UK be . some may see that as a compromise that let major polluter off the hook , but I believe that international co - operation be vital , and similar model have work well in get those nation sign up to some kind of baseline target . it would help break the deadlock , and allow high - ambition state like , I hope , the UK to set and hit bold target , lead by example . something be well than nothing . we must make progress on this issue , and a global treaty be essential if we want to protect our planet and the health of future generation . I be delighted to see that my hon . friend the Minister , with whom I serve in the shadow Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs team for three year , will respond to the debate ; I look forward to that . with less than one month to go until the next round of the UN plastic treaty talk in Geneva , we must ensure that the international and domestic focus keep we on track . we must also ensure that the UK delegation ' s priority be clear , so I thank everybody for take part in today ' s debate . keep on track be difficult when the number of fossil fuel lobbyist present at the talk rise in each and every round . those lobbyist seek to derail the talk , and to prevent any limit to plastic production be agree . we have see this before with the tobacco industry . we can not allow private interest that be damaging to health to take precedence , and we can not allow the mismanagement of plastic , plastic leakage into the environment and the associated colossal greenhouse gas emission . towards the end of my time on the Environmental Audit Committee , we undertake an inquiry on plastic waste . this be in 2021 - 22 . in the three year since it be publish , little have change . recycle plastic be difficult . globally , only 9 % of plastic have ever be recycle . furthermore , the carbon emission associate with plastic outstrip those from the entire global aviation and shipping industry . approximately 50 % of the plastic packaging waste generate in the UK be export for recycling — or so we think . that be what we call the UK ' s plastic recycling capacity gap . the UK have one of the high per capita plastic waste level in the world . cheap single - use packaging be incentivise over unpackaged product , or investment into reuse and recycling and wide circular economy initiative , which the Government be seek to champion . on the EAC , we find that much export waste be just be dump , with no prospect of recycling . People diligently recycle at home in the UK would be rightly appal if they see what be happen to the plastic they put in their bin — green bin in Leeds — for recycling . to support our UK delegation and address this issue head - on , the UK should take a lead on the international stage in secure global , legally bind target to cut plastic production . our recycling and waste treatment industry be hugely supportive of the propose treaty set out at the discussion , and support a bind target to reduce global virgin plastic production . the Government need to support the policy measure necessary to make that workable in practice . if the Government develop a clear road map for implement the policy require to deliver a domestic circular economy for plastic , they could set a binding , viable target for reduce virgin plastic production . they could also set out clear policy intervention to stimulate end - market demand for recycle plastic , and create the condition for major new investment in plastic sort and reprocess infrastructure , so that we end the plastic recycling capacity gap in the UK , create job in plastic reprocess , ensure quality , and ensure that plastic be be recycle , not just dump . that would be a great british plastic initiative . the UK export approximately 50 % of its plastic packaging waste . we must set out proposal for clamp down on illegitimate export of plastic waste be dump overseas . while the vast majority of plastic waste export from the UK be for reprocessing , which be manage in an environmentally sound manner , there have be instance in the past few year where illegitimate export of low - grade plastic have be dump or burn overseas . a robust and properly resource regulator could be empower to enforce the right standard and clamp down on illegal waste export . we must end plastic dumping . the UK Government have already implement strong step to improve the quantity and quality of plastic send for recycling . however , government need to address fossil fuel ' influence in politic , particularly in the international plastic treaty negotiation . that be the only way we can deliver a circular economy for plastic . there need to be sustainable long - term demand for any recycled product create . otherwise , we will carry on with the unsustainable practice of use virgin plastic , and the fossil fuel industry will continue to have an international influence on our UN process . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I warmly congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on secure this important debate , and I thank all member who have contribute . rarely do I have the privilege of be part of a debate in which there be such consensus , though we have not hear from the Conservative Front Benchers yet . I assume that there be broad consensus . that should give the Government a strong hand , allow it to be a tough negotiator in the global plastic treaty talk . global plastic production and waste have double in the last 20 year — most of what I be say have already be say ; that be the beauty of wind - up speech . accord to my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) , the figure stand at 12 million tonne of plastic . I have another statistic for he : in 2023 , the BBC report that there be more than 170 trillion piece of plastic float in the world ' s ocean . that be no way to treat our precious planet . indeed , it put countless specie at risk of extinction . the global plastic treaty offer a unique opportunity for a global , United Nations - lead treaty , through which all country be hold to a high common standard on plastic consumption . the treaty would create a level playing field , incentivise and support international action , and forge a clear path toward a future free from plastic pollution . we Liberal Democrats have be instrumental in the campaign to finalise the treaty , and be look towards next month ' s negotiation in Geneva , in which we will , I hope , reach a breakthrough . it be not just in this Chamber that there be great consensus on this issue . the majority of the UK public , the majority of member state government , the business community and civil society be all push in the same direction . More than 100 country support a legally bind global target to cut plastic production . the UK must retain its ambition on this key issue . I be one of 90 mp who have sign Greenpeace ' s pledge , which state : " I support a strong global target to cut plastic production " . last year , a quarter of a million people take part in the big plastic count , an initiative run by Greenpeace and Everyday Plastic to count each piece of plastic and show the scale of the crisis in the UK . we have hear from many member about how concerned the public be about this issue , and about their constituent take part in clean - up action . Greenpeace be rightly concerned that , in each further round of talk , more fossil fuel lobbyist seek to derail negotiation and prevent any limit to plastic production from be agree . the Government should look closely at precedent for how to prevent the influence of lobbyist over international agreement . the framework convention on tobacco control , for example , recognise the lobby tactic of the tobacco industry and require party to " act to protect these policy from commercial and other vested interest " . government across the globe must address the influence of fossil fuel in politic , and put the interest of people before polluter . we must also address funding . a sustainable treaty that be build to last for generation must include a strong , dedicated , multilateral fund . without a substantial financial package , the treaty will impose obligation on country , particularly those in the global south , with which they will struggle to comply . the reality of the climate crisis globally mean that country will have to find money to clean up the mess that polluter have create . the Government should look for way to place that financial burden mainly on the plastic industry , which have make billion in profit . I recognise that it be important to work with industry , but this be ultimately about the " polluter pay " principle — though , of course , we need to bring industry with we , to create practical and workable solution that do not flop . I will touch on one issue that have not be mention , but which a constituent have raise with I : plastic pollution from chew gum . I be alert to it by Keir Carnie , one of my Bath constituent , the founder of plant - base chew gum company Nuud Gum . many of we be completely unaware that chew gum be , in fact , a single - use plastic . it commonly contain synthetic polymer — plastic material derive from fossil fuel , and find in product such as carrier bag , glue and car tyre . in the UK , over 4 billion piece of plastic gum be consume annually , the majority of which end up as non - biodegradable plastic pollution . that gum break down into microplastic , contaminate soil , waterway and wildlife . gum pollution be also one of the UK ' s most pervasive type of litter , and cost local council over £ 60 million per year in removal effort . I be sure that every one of we remember an annoying moment when we have to pick off a piece of gum from under our shoe . despite its similarity to other ban single - use plastic such as straw and cotton bud , chew gum have evade regulation . as with single - use vape , the UK have a great opportunity to lead again in environmental and public health protection . I urge the Government to look into this issue , and I be happy to put they in contact with my constituent , who could provide evidence and support on what can be do . we be at a pivotal moment . the scale and urgency of the plastic pollution crisis demand bold , co - ordinate global action . the treaty must be not only ambitious but fair , with proper funding and protection against vested interest . the UK must show leadership in the upcoming talk , champion a strong new global treaty that tackle plastic pollution at every stage of its lifecycle , so that future generation can enjoy the beautiful planet that we still enjoy — just about — today . I call the shadow Minister . I begin my remark by acknowledge an interest in this area : my family own and operate a plastic recycling business , though I make it clear to the House that I be not directly involve in the management of the business , nor do I have any financial interest in it . I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure this really important debate . all member have make hugely valuable contribution . the right hon . Member speak about the importance of responsibility for not only stakeholder but wide industry and , indeed , policymaker . in the light of the upcoming negotiation on the global plastic treaty , it be an important time to have this debate . before come to the potential treaty , it be worth take a moment to consider some of the domestic context to our national relationship with plastic , and that bring I on to the other contribution . the hon . member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) rightly raise concern about microplastic , which have be mention by many member in this House . the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) talk about the challenge of plastic litter and plastic waste in his constituency , and he rightly call on the Government to hold China to account in their global discussion . my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) rightly raise the importance that young people place on reduce plastic usage , and he mention the concern and letter that have be submit to he by various school in his constituency , as do the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) . the hon . member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) , who be not in her place , raise the importance of ban single - use vape and the work of local business and organisation in her constituency — include ABBA Voyage , which I have see , and I note its work to reduce plastic waste . the hon . member for Melksham and Devizes ( Brian Mathew ) focus on regulation and the importance of this place have an influence on the global plastic treaty . the hon . member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) rightly raise her staunch objection to the incineration of plastic waste , and I agree with she . in my constituency of Keighley and Ilkley , a planning application for an incinerator be approve by Labour - run Bradford council . I have be staunchly against that , and I wish she well in her local campaign . the hon . member for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) talk about research undertake by Professor Christian Dunn at Bangor University , which I hope the Minister will look at . the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) and his neighbour , the hon . member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , talk about the importance of progress conversation on the global plastic treaty and the need for a great focus on the concern of their constituent , raise today by the strong voice of their Edinburgh representative . the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) talk about the importance of reduce virgin plastic production and the need for a real focus on increase recycling rate . finally , the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) reference the importance of local group that drive forward change . for decade , we have use plastic in ever more role and in ever great amount . indeed , plastic have replace many everyday item that once be make from paper , glass or metal . plastic may have be the way forward then , but that do not mean it need be the way forward now for everything . for that reason , I welcome the important step that be take by the previous Conservative Government . plastic straw , drink stirrer and single - use plastic bag be all notorious for pollute our natural environment , and it be therefore right that effort be take to ban they . in fact , the plastic bag charge have successfully see plastic bag usage reduce by 98 % . other restriction on single - use plastic cutlery , cup , tray , plate and many other item be now in force , with the ban have an important effect on reduce residual waste . residual waste be key . we know that the UK produce a huge amount of plastic waste — as much as the second most per capita globally — but we also know that , due to strong environmental protection , very little of that waste be now handle irresponsibly . of course , there be always more to be do . for comparison , 80 % of the plastic in the ocean originate from Asia , compare with just 0 . 4 % from Europe . reduce residual waste must be the key pillar of any international treaty on plastic waste . the previous Government understand that when they legislate in the Environment Act 2021 to halve residual waste , and I trust that the Minister will be able to reassure we that it remain the key goal of this Government . the hon . Gentleman be talk well about the general state of plastic in the world , but we be debate the global plastic treaty . can he confirm whether his party support the UK be a signatory ? I will come on to those point , but I first want to outline the nature of the debate , because it be important to recognise the contribution that have be make . we know that reduce our plastic use be vital for two key reason . the first be the impact on the environment . it be estimate that as many as 1 million seabird die each year as a result of entanglement in plastic . in fact , at current rate of increase , the weight of plastic in the ocean will outweigh all fish by 2050 . plastic also pollute our inland waterway , have a detrimental impact on nearby area , especially when we consider the long - term chemical effect of decomposition . the second reason be the grow body of research show that long - term exposure to plastic be bad for our health — particularly microplastic , as the hon . member for Stafford mention . everything from hair loss to fatigue , heart condition and stroke have be link to microplastic . what be most concern be that , while the health link may not yet be fully understand , we know that microplastic persist for century , not only in the environment but in our body . as we use more plastic through our life , these level build , potentially increase the risk . that be precisely why secure an effective global framework to reduce plastic use be key . the resolution pass in 2022 be an encouraging first step and show clearly that country across the world recognise the challenge and wish to tackle it . crucially , this global support for progress on plastic be key to ensure that standard be raise uniformly and that the risk that plastic waste be simply offshore be significantly reduce . we simply must not offshore our responsibility . equally , we must be realistic about how we manage plastic . we must recognise that unilaterally ban or heavily restrict many type of plastic will leave we uncompetitive on the global stage . we must work with other nation and bring those that be sceptical along with we . that scepticism be precisely why we must use the negotiation on this treaty to take these matter forward , and to make they concrete . we can not simply have goal or aspiration . we must have verifiable target that can be measure so that we can hold organisation and stakeholder to account . naturally , we should then expect all signatory to fulfil those obligation . I hope the Government be able to confirm that they will push for the inclusion of these measure in the treaty as they continue to negotiate , to ensure compliance by ourselves and other partner . we must continue to work not only on the global plastic treaty but to improve our plastic waste record at home . we must continue to invest in our sort and volume capacity within the recycling sector to ensure that the amount of recycling continue to go up , and to reduce the amount go to landfill . plastic pollution be not go away . many plastic will be with we for thousand of year , so it be vital that we act to stop the flow of waste into our environment . when discussion be reopen next month in Geneva , I hope that the Minister will be in attendance and that the Government will be successful in secure the robust and practical treaty that we all hope to see . it be a pleasure to respond to the debate , so ably introduce by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) . he , along with every member from across the Chamber who make a contribution , point out the seriousness of the issue and the urgent need for action . plastic pollution be one of the big environmental issue that we face today . once hail as a miracle of modern invention , plastic be now one of our planet ' s most persistent threat . its great strength — durability — have become its dark flaw . these material be design to last and do just that — for century . they do not simply disappear , but break down into tiny fragment , as my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) so ably point out , and these microplastic invade our beach , river , field and even our body . from the depth of the ocean to the cell of living creature , plastic pollution be everywhere . for too long , plastic have litter our ocean and threaten our wildlife . amount of plastic enter the ocean be predict to triple by 2040 compare with 2016 . that be unacceptable . plastic pollution do not respect boundary . we urgently need to agree a plastic treaty to enable global action to address this , so with that in mind , I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland and his Committee for their recent inquiry into the treaty , and for their letter of recommendation for the forthcoming negotiation on an international treaty to end plastic pollution . it be a very timely input , and I read it with interest as we finalise our preparation for the negotiation . I look forward to respond more fully in due course , but the Committee can be assure that this Government be take every step to ensure that we secure an ambitious and effective global plastic pollution treaty . this will be both a tool for move towards a circular economy and an opportunity to showcase some of the domestic action that the UK have take . a circular economy be key to deliver our government ' s plan for change — to grow the economy , increase environmental resilience and improve the life of hard - work people around the country . that be why our circular economy taskforce have bring together expert from across Government , industry , academia and civil society to develop the first circular economy strategy for England . it will include a road map on chemical and plastic , deliver growth and fundamentally shift our relationship with the good that we use every day , end our throwaway society and stop the avalanche of rubbish that be fill up our high street , countryside and ocean , make reuse and repair the norm , and end the throwaway society . a circular economy be an opportunity to grow our economy and make it more resilient , to improve life in every part of the United Kingdom , and to protect our environment for generation to come . domestically , the Government be already work with the devolve government to legislate across the UK for the ban on wet wipe contain plastic . from 1 June this year , the sale and supply of single - use vape be ban across the UK . the deposit return scheme for single - use plastic and metal drink container in England , Northern Ireland and Scotland will launch in October 2027 , which will drive our effort to stop litter fill up our street , river and ocean . I be grateful for the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) about the story in Scotland . additionally , the extend producer responsibility for packaging come into effect on 1 January this year . it will move the full cost of deal with household packaging waste away from local taxpayer and on to the packaging producer themselves . I be pleased to hear the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) about the great success of the Labour Government , work with people in Wales , on issue around recycling . the EPR scheme be obviously welcome and Liberal Democrat Members know the intention , but the scheme appear to have some unintended effect . the scheme will not only impact producer but small business , hospitality business in particular , who have raise their concern . will the Minister continue to listen to those business and try to adjust the scheme , so it work for they as well ? of course — absolutely . we be always work in collaboration , and we will do everything we can to ensure that . it be an important principle that have be establish , and I be determined to ensure that it be successful . next month , at the resume fifth session of the intergovernmental negotiating committee , we will have a once - in - a - lifetime opportunity to agree an ambitious and effective international agreement to end plastic pollution . we want a treaty that tackle the full life cycle of plastic and promote a circular economy . the UK have be a key advocate for an effective treaty throughout and be a found member of the High Ambition Coalition to end Plastic Pollution — a coalition of nearly 70 country from across all region of the world . at INC5 , the UK join over 80 other ambitious country to make clear the weight of support for an ambitious treaty . recently , at the UN ocean conference in Nice , we join nearly 100 country in sign the nice wake - up call for an ambitious international treaty to end plastic pollution . those demonstrate the commitment to reach an agreement at INC5 . 2 in August and the weight of support for an ambitious treaty . I be proud of the leadership role that the UK have take in the negotiation , and we continue to take significant action to drive ambition and demonstrate leadership . the Minister be right to highlight the lead role that the UK have play in this matter , under both the current Government and , in particular , the previous Government . the last negotiation and progress towards the treaty come to a halt because Russia , Iran and Saudi Arabia basically impose a time limit , which mean that the treaty could not be agree . what discussion be take place behind the scene to ensure that country like those three will not do the same and stall our agreement on the treaty this time ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s well - inform intervention . I assure he that negotiation and discussion be ongoing , and we be determined to ensure that we get a good outcome . as well as lead early work to develop criterion for problematic plastic product since the second negotiating session , INC2 , the UK be co - lead work with Chile to progress discussion on product design , and co - lead work with Panama on release and leakage of plastic . I be sure the Minister be aware that his Excellency the Ambassador of Ecuador be the chairman of the UN intergovernmental negotiating committee on plastic . be the Minister work with he ? his Excellency be in London and do incredible work in this area , and I hope that our Government be co - operate with he . he be also do work toward and look forward to the day when Ecuador can join the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . I assure the hon . Gentleman that we be work with all interested party to ensure that we make progress on this issue . my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) recently co - host a ministerial event at the UN ocean conference to bring together minister from a range of country , represent all region and ambition level , to discuss the most challenging issue . as we look forward to August , it be clear that divergent view remain on key issue such as phase out problematic product , how we approach the production of plastic and finance the treaty . however , it be our sense that the majority of country want to reach an agreement at INC5 . 2 , and there have be substantial discussion of how the treaty address plastic production . many party believe that plastic production be outside the scope of the agreement . however , the UK have be clear that the treaty should address the full life cycle of plastic , include sustainable production and consumption . at INC5 . 2 , we will continue to work on that basis , to ensure that the treaty send a signal to spur investment in the market for recycled plastic and to collect the datum we need to ensure that the treaty work . a provision on problematic plastic product will be one of the core treaty provision , and the UK have work with Brazil to carry out technical work to support that provision . the UK have also support the call from 95 country in Busan for a clear , legally bind obligation to phase out the most harmful plastic product and chemical of concern in plastic . good progress be make at INC5 on text that provide a basis for further discussion . the key will be strike the right balance between national measure and harmonised global approach and ensure that measure be base on science . we be work with Chile to promote an effective provision on the design of plastic product to keep they in use for long and make they easy to recycle . we recognise the importance of mobilise support for the country most in need of agreement ' s implementation . that be an essential element of an effective treaty . the UK support the use of the Global Environment Facility to support the implementation of the treaty . that will avoid further fragmentation of the environmental financial architecture and allow for synergy with funding for climate and nature . as we have hear , plastic pollution be a broad issue , with a huge variety of actor across the plastic value chain . to mobilise the resource need at scale , we must draw on an equally broad range of funding source — public and private , domestic and international . the UK be the large donor to the Global Plastic Action Partnership , contribute some £ 20 . 5 million . that partnership bring together government , business and civil society to tackle plastic pollution and increase investment in the circular economy in country eligible for official development assistance . to end plastic pollution , we need all actor in the plastic value chain to act , and we need to bring everyone along with we . that include the marginalised , undervalue and unrecognised waste picker , most of whom be woman . they handle more than half the world ' s plastic waste for recycling , so it be really important that their voice be hear . it be essential that the treaty we agree be responsive to change and emerge evidence — it can not operate effectively if one member have a de facto veto . as such , we need effective decision - make process , include the possibility of vote on conference of the party decision and amendment to annexe once all option for achieve consensus have be exhaust . one thing be clear : address the problem of plastic pollution require a joint effort between Government , industry , academia and civil society . we have partner with the Ocean Plastics Leadership Network to run the UK treaty dialogue ahead of each round of negotiation . those dialogue have include actor at all stage of the plastic value chain , as well as academia and environmental non - governmental organisation . they have help we to understand diverse view on the treaty , which in turn have inform our approach to negotiation . in June , my ministerial colleague and hon . friend , the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice , host a business roundtable to discuss how the private sector can support an ambitious plastic pollution treaty . it be the second plastic treaty business roundtable , and bring together business from across the plastic value chain . those roundtable be attend by his Excellency Ambassador Vayas , the INC chair . twenty lead business have now sign a statement call for an effective treaty , and four non - private sector organisation have endorse that statement . the Government be also clear that any treaty must be inform by science , and I note the comment make on that topic by my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) . in that regard , we be deeply concerned to hear of the threat face by scientist — an issue that have be raise by a number of contributor to this debate . those threat be unacceptable . we remain steadfast in our commitment to the multilateral system and to an open , transparent and inclusive process . this have be a timely debate , as we approach final negotiation in Geneva . while there be many challenge to overcome , a vast amount of work be under way to find solution to the many remain issue . I hear the strong call from my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) and my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , and I be confident that we can secure a robust and effective treaty . that be what the UK team will be push for in Geneva . again , I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland for secure this debate . I thank everybody who have take part in this debate — it have be quite a remarkable exercise and an enormously valuable one . every contribution have be truly excellent . we have hear from member represent constituency in Scotland , Wales and England ; we have not have anybody from Northern Ireland , but I should place on the record that I have see on the Annunciator that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) have be in Westminster Hall this afternoon . it have also be noteworthy for the fact that , at a time of year when we all get a bit tired and scratchy , we have have remarkable consensus and a good - natured debate . in closing , I want to address myself to not just the people in the Chamber , but those who might be watch from outside . the evidence session that our Select Committee hold last week be not an easy one to pull together , especially when it come to bring in corporate interest . Coca - Cola turn up and , to its credit , have a decent story to tell . ineo turn up , and might or might not have have a good story to tell — it could not quite remember . the people who we really want to get be from Unilever , but apparently everybody in Unilever have go to India for the day , so they could not appear before the Committee . we will return to this ; they can run , but they can not hide . in the past , we have see not just the national , but the corporate influence that have stand in the way of progress . if those corporate interest be watch our proceeding today , they should hear a very loud and clear message that we be watch they . if they again stand in the way of make progress on something that matter to this House and to the people who send we here , we will see they , and there will be a commercial price for they to pay for stand in the way of progress . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the Global Plastics Treaty . future of the Church of England Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) it be an honour to stand here in this empty Chamber to speak about the original purpose of this space , when it be a chapel in the Church of England . the old Chamber of the House of Commons , on which this space be model after the great fire of 1834 , be St Stephen ' s Chapel — formerly a royal church . it be give by the heir of Henry VIII to Parliament to serve as its debating Chamber . Madam Deputy Speaker , your Chair stand on the altar step . the table with the Dispatch Boxes be where the lectern stand . I mention that because the link between this place and the Church of England be not merely ceremonial . the Prayers we say here at the start of every day be not just a nod to tradition . our democracy be found on christian faith . this Parliament remain the law - give power of the Church of England . we in this place have the responsibility to approve or disapprove the doctrine and the rule of the Church , and that be as it should be , because the Church of England be not some private club or just another eccentric denomination . the Church be a chaplain to the nation , and through the parish system , in which every square inch of England have its local church and its local priest , we be all member — we all belong . even if you never set foot in your church from one year to the next , and even if you do not believe in its teaching , it be your church and you be its member . when I speak of the Church of England today , I be not speak about the internal politic of the anglican sect ; I speak of the common creed of our country , the official religion of the English and the british nation , and the institution — old than the monarchy , and much old than Parliament — which make this country . it be no surprise that both the Church and the country itself be in a bad way , divide , internally confused and badly lead . the Church be rive by deep dispute over doctrine and governance , and be literally leaderless , with even the process of choose the next archbishop of Canterbury unclear , confused and contend . the country itself reflect that — unclear in its doctrine and its governance , profoundly precarious , chronically expose to threat from without and within . it be at risk economically , culturally , socially and , I would say , morally . last month , in the space of three day in one infamous week , this House authorise the killing of unborn child — of nine - month - old baby — and it pass a Bill to allow the killing of the elderly and disabled . I describe those law in those stark term not to provoke further controversy , but because those be the fact . we give our consent to the great crime : the killing of the weak and most defenceless human being . it be a great sin . if , stand here , I have any power to repent on behalf of this House , I hereby repent of what we do . in the reaction to these vote , and all around we in reaction to the state of the country and the world , something else be happen . there be a great hunger in society for a well way of living , and I want to use this opportunity to explain what that well way be and why we here in England have the mean to follow it . the jewish and Christian God be a God of nation . he be interested in people as individual , but also as group — as community not only of kinship but of common worship , with a common God . uniquely among the nation of the world , this nation — England , from which the United Kingdom grow — be found and create consciously on the basis of the Bible and the story of the hebrew people . in that sense , England be the old christian country and the prototype of nation across the west . the story of England be the story of Christianity operate on a people to make the institution and culture that have be uniquely stable and successful . the western model be forge and refine in England over a thousand year from the 9th to the 19th century . what be that model ? it be simply this : that power should arrange itself for the benefit of all the people under it , and specifically for the poor and weak ; that the law be there to protect the ordinary person against the abuse of power ; and that every individual have equal dignity and freedom , include , crucially , the freedom of conscience , religion and belief , which make space for other religion under the christian shield — a secular space . indeed , the idea of a secular space be a christian concept that be meaningful only in a christian world . these be idea that only make sense if one accept that we have some intrinsic value — a value that be give to we and be not of our own making or invention . throughout the long year from the time of Alfred to the time of Victoria , it be assume that a nation be a community of common worship and that our community — this country — worship the Christian God . then , in the 20th century , another idea arise : that it be possible for a country to be neutral about God ; that the public square be empty of any metaphysics ; and that the route to freedom lay through the desert of materialism and individual reason — " no hell below we , above we only sky " . that idea be wrong . the horror of the 20th century attest to that , not least in the west , where we escape totalitarianism but have suffer our own catastrophe of social breakdown , social injustice , loneliness and emptiness on a chronic scale . ugly and aggressive new threat be now arise , because we have find that in the absence of the Christian God , we do not have pluralism and tolerance , with everyone be nice to each other in a godless world . all politic be religious , and in abandon one religion we simply create a space for other to move into . my hon . friend be make a very moving and powerful speech . our Head of State , who be also the head of the Church of England , represent the right of all people to live in a free society and to worship freely . it be because our Head of State be also the head of our establish Church that there be protection for all religion and denomination in our constitution . the cross be on the top of the crown that he wear , which demonstrate that the christian faith be the basis of our constitution , our custom , our heritage and our british way of life . do my hon . friend agree ? my hon . friend will not be surprised to hear that I do agree with he . he make the point very well , and I absolutely acknowledge it . the paradox of our constitution be that under a monarchy , we have a system with the most developed political freedom in the world , and that under an establish church , we have a tradition of freedom of conscience and belief in which all religion can be accommodate . it be because the cross be at the centre , and I notice that the cross be above your Chair too , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I be say , in abandon one religion we simply create a space for other to move into as the dominant faith . there be two religion move into the space from which Christianity have be eject , and one be Islam . in a debate yesterday , I say how much I find myself in agreement with muslim colleague in Parliament on moral and social matter . but as I have be say , this be a christian country — if it be a country at all — and I can not be indifferent to the extent of the growth of Islam in recent decade . it be the other religion that worry I even more . this other religion be a hybrid of old and new idea , and it do not have a proper name . I do not think that " woke " do justice to its seriousness . it be a combination of ancient paganism , christian heresy and the cult of modernism , all mash up into a deeply mistaken and deeply dangerous ideology of power that be hostile to the essential object of our affection and our loyalty : family , community and nation . it be explicitly and most passionately hostile to Christianity as the wellspring of the west . that religion , unlike Islam , must simply be destroy , at least as a public doctrine . it must be banish from public life — from school and university , and from business and public service . it need to be send back to the fringe of eccentricity , like the modern druid who invest Stonehenge in my constituency with a theology that be see as mad but harmless because its follower be so few and no one serious take they seriously . we can no long pretend , as people do in the 20th century , that we can be neutral or indifferent to God or to the public square be a godless desert . the fact be that the strong god be back , and we have to choose which god to worship . I suggest we worship the God who come in the weak form , Jesus Christ . this God be a jealous god — it be he or nothing — and we have to own our christian story , or repudiate it . not to own it be to repudiate it , and to repudiate Christianity be not only to sever ourselves from our past , but to cut off the source of all the thing we value now and that we need in the future , such as freedom , tolerance , individual dignity and human right . without the Christian God , in whose teach these thing have their source , these be invention — mere non - existent aspiration . to worship human right be to worship fairy , but if we own our story and remember the real source of our civilisation , we can have these thing and make they real — real freedom and tolerance and dignity , a culture of love and , crucially , a culture of humanity . we be in the age of the machine , and a great choice confront we : whether to make machine in the image of fallen man , bent on exploitation and domination with mankind in its sight , or to make they what they properly be , the servant of mankind able to help we make a well world . to conclude , a wind be blow , a storm be come and when it hit we be go to learn if our house be build on rock or on sand , but we have be here before . the reformer of the 11th and the 16th century , the Puritans in the 17th century , the Evangelicals in the 19th century all bring this country back from the edge — from idolatry , error or just plain indifference , and from all the social and political crisis that indifference to Christianity bring about — and they each in their generation restore this country to itself . a new restoration be need now , with a revival of the faith , a recovery of a christian politic and a re - founding of this nation on the teaching that Alfred make the basis of the common law of England all those century ago . this be a mission for the Church under its next leader , whoever that be ; it be a mission for this place — the old chapel that become the wellspring of western democracy — and for we , its Members ; and it be a mission for our whole country . it be the route to a prosperous modernity found on respect for human dignity , responsibility for the create world and the worship of God . I thank the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) for secure this important debate on the future of the Church of England . I be grateful for the opportunity to respond on behalf of the Government . the hon . Member have often speak very powerfully about the importance of faith , its role in public life and the benefit it bring . today , he have speak eloquently on the positive role that Christianity play in our wide society , which I believe be a sentiment share across the House . anyone involve in local life know just how essential be christian place of worship and the people who support they . they run school and toddler group , support food bank and reach out to those face homelessness . they offer comfort and companionship to those who be isolate , grieve or just struggle to cope . the truth be simple : without they , much of our local life simply would not function . their contribution be not just appreciate , but indispensable . the christian faith have play a central role in public life and it continue to do so . the hon . member be but one of a number of example of good public servant motivate by their christian faith in the cause of the common good . our society be enrich by those contribution . it be equally enrich by people from a wide range of background , heritage and , indeed , faith and belief . right across this House , I see member of the protestant , catholic — like myself — jewish , muslim and Sikh faith community , and those of other faith and indeed none , who be all motivated towards the betterment of the people we serve . for the benefit of the House , I will briefly outline the constitutional arrangement between the establish Church , Parliament and the Executive . these arrangement have deep root and have evolve over many century . much of our constitution be base on a combination of common law , statute , convention and principle . as the establish Church , the Church of England have historically be subject to parliamentary legislation . however , since the enable Act of 1919 — the Church of England Assembly ( Powers ) Act 1919 — much of its governance have be delegate to its own body , the General Synod . while the Synod manage its internal affair , its Measures still require Parliament ' s approval and Royal Assent . as hon . member will know , the Lords Spiritual , bishop of the Church , sit in the House of Lords by right . the Government believe they offer a unique and value spiritual perspective . there be still many way in which the Church and Parliament remain closely connected . the Government reflect that a great example be the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 ( Extension ) Act 2025 , which be skilfully steer through the House last year by the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) . the Act , request by the Church of England , extend for five more year the arrangement allow female bishop to sit in the House of Lords as Lords Spiritual . in fact , it recently enable the Right Rev . Sophie Jelley , the new Bishop of Coventry , to take her seat in the other place . the Church also have a presence in this House through the Second Church Estates Commissioner . I be pleased that the Second Church Estates Commissioner , my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) do so much work in that regard , serve as a vital link between Parliament and the Church , and ensure that the Church Commissioners remain accountable to the House . the Executive , in particular the Prime Minister and the Lord Chancellor , play a key role in appoint senior clergy . while bishop be formally appoint by the sovereign , that be do on the Prime Minister ' s advice , follow recommendation from the Crown Nominations Commission . the sovereign , as Supreme Governor of the Church of England , remain central to those arrangement . in highlight some of the way the Church , Parliament and the Executive be intertwine , I hope to provide assurance to the hon . member for East Wiltshire that , on the importance of the Church of England and the christian faith more generally , Parliament and the Executive be by no means wash their hand . the Church be streamline its national governance , with plan approve by the Synod early this week . the proposal will soon come before Parliament . this mark another step in a process begin in 2020 to create well governance structure that well support the Church ' s mission and its work . regard the Church ' s future , its day - to - day operation be of course not a matter for the Government . however , the Government look forward to the Church continue to evolve to meet the challenge of our time , and to play an active role in public debate on the most important issue we face as a nation . my hon . friend the Member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) refer to the importance of the local parish . across England , the parish be central to everything . the church and the local vicar be a part of our community . in fact , we be very lucky in Romford to have the Church of St Edward the Confessor . we have a new vicar , the Rev . Jordan Palmer , who have just join our church . do the Minister agree that the parish be vital ? it be not just about the church community , the member of the church ; it have a wide responsibility to all people of all religion and no religion , not just Church of England member . the Church of England should cherish the importance of the parish as a part of all our community in the constituency we represent . I believe that very strongly , actually . even member who be not church attender will take part in civic life at a local level that be closely link to their local parish church . I think about Remembrance Sunday and the role parish church play in those reflection . I think about our own Mayoral Sunday , which be celebrate every year , where the mayor of the borough of Oldham be the honorary church warden in the parish church . regardless of individual faith and belief , I think it be accept and celebrate that parish church be a significant part of local identity and a place for all people to come together . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s new church leader on that basis . that be a reflection of the value that we as a Parliament place on the Church of England , which be why bring the debate to the House today be so important . I thank the hon . member for East Wiltshire for do just that and I hope he appreciate the response on behalf of the Government . question put and agree to . House adjourn .