Royal Assent I have to notify the House that , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , the King have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) Act 2025 Product Regulation and Metrology Act 2025 Football Governance Act 2025 Norwich Livestock Market Act 2025 . oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — Primary School Assessment what assessment she have make of the potential merit of introduce alternative method of primary school assessment . Mr Speaker , may I take this opportunity to thank all those who work in our school and wish they a well - earn break over the summer holiday ? high and rise school standard be a non - negotiable for this Labour Government as we seek to build a school system that enable every child to achieve and thrive . our independent expert - lead curriculum and assessment review have find that the current system for primary assessment be broadly work well . however , we will take on board any recommendation from the review panel when it report in the autumn . a recent survey by Young Minds find that over a third of year 6 pupil feel ill due to standard assessment test , and over a quarter say they make they feel bad about themselves . ninety - six per cent of headteacher say that sats harm wellbee , and 95 % doubt their accuracy . our child and teacher be tell we that SATs be break . will the Department consider a more holistic assessment approach that ensure the wellbeing of our child at such a young age ? it be our ambition that all child get the chance not just to achieve at school but to thrive . sat be carefully develop to ensure that they be accessible . it be clear that school should not over - prepare child for the assessment at the expense of their wellbeing . it be so well know how damaging formal assessment can be for some child ; their wellbeing should be at the forefront of our mind . I know that from primary school teacher in my Bath constituency . be it not time that we completely scrap sat ? national curriculum test and assessment be crucial to support school in build strong foundation for child regardless of background and prior attainment . we will continue to keep the matter under review . of course , child should not be make to feel stress ; they should be support to achieve and thrive in any assessment at school . teacher Recruitment what step she be take to recruit teacher . what step she be take to recruit new teacher . what step she be take to recruit new teacher . with the summer holiday just around the corner , I want to say a huge thank you to everyone work across education for all their hard work this year . improve the quality of teaching be the good way to drive up school standard , support every child to achieve and thrive . through our plan for change , we will recruit an additional 6 , 500 expert teacher in our school and college . with an almost 10 % pay award , we be make good progress , with over 2 , 000 more teacher in our secondary and special school . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the Department for Education be more than a third of the way through recruit those 6 , 500 teacher . a recent Public Accounts Committee report show that school with a high proportion of disadvantaged pupil experience the bad teacher shortage . will the Secretary of State reassure I that extra effort will be put into recruiting and retain teacher at all those school ? I give my hon . friend that assurance and thank he for all the work he do for school right across his constituency . recruit and retain more teacher — particularly in the most disadvantaged area — be critical to our opportunity mission , but I be also delighted that initial teacher training acceptance be up 12 % in secondary . that be positive progress be make , with a 16 % increase in math and a 46 % increase in physics . that be the change that the Labour Government be deliver . I thank the Secretary of State for her response and for the Government ' s commitment to recruit 6 , 500 new teacher . however , as we know , dyslexic child tend to leave school or education with disproportionately low attainment level . they be also over - represent in the criminal justice system and often have low self - esteem , with much of that come from their experience in educational setting . will the Secretary of State outline how she will ensure that the recruitment of new teacher will bring in those who can meet the education need of dyslexic and neurodiverse child ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for all her work to support neurodiverse student in Broxtowe and beyond . from September , thank to this Labour Government ' s reform , all new teacher will receive three year of evidence - base training , include significantly enhance content on support child with additional need . we know there be much more we have to do so that all our student , include those with special educational need and disability , be able to achieve and thrive , and I look forward to discuss that far with she very soon . as a former teacher , I know that new school building not only help student progress , but encourage teacher retention . can the Minister confirm that new school building be indeed part of this Government ' s programme for change , and will she commit to visit Bradfields academy in my constituency , a specialist SEND school that be invest million as part of the school rebuild programme ? I be grateful to my hon . friend ; I know he care deeply about outcome for child in Chatham and Aylesford , and that he bring real experience to this House . he be right to demonstrate the important role of the specialist sector . he mention Bradfields academy , which have already secure a place on the school rebuild programme ; with the approval of the trust , I would be delighted to arrange for I or one of my colleague to visit and see the brilliant work they be do . this government be hamper school ' recruitment of new teacher . first they hike up the cost through the increase in employer national insurance contribution ; then the money promise to state school from charge vat on private school fee be spend on housing instead . can the Secretary of State tell the House how much the increase in employer national insurance contribution will cost school in total over this Parliament ? we be invest record sum in our state school . the conservative party , however , want to take money out of our state school to give tax break back to private school . that tell we everything we need to know about their priority . the headteacher of the Thomas Hardye school in West Dorset previously work in a London school . he tell I that in London he receive nearly £ 10 , 000 per pupil , but in West Dorset nearly £ 5 , 000 — yet the challenge of rural education be no less complex , not least in the recruitment of teacher . what step be the Secretary of State take to address the funding inequality face rural school , to ensure that all pupil receive the teaching they deserve ? we continue to keep all these area under review ; if the hon . Gentleman would like to write to I with more information , I would be happy to respond with more detail . however , I be clear that this Government be invest more in education . we be turn around the year - on - year decline in teacher number with well pay , more support on workload and more money for our school , include tackle child poverty . that be the difference that a Labour Government be make for our country . the Government have try to have it every which way on these elusive 6 , 500 extra teacher . if the labour manifesto have mean that only secondary teacher count , but they could be in any subject , presumably that be what it would have say . what it actually say be 6 , 500 new specialist teacher in key subject , so will the Secretary of State enlighten we : what be those subject ? I would be very happy to do so . as the right hon . Gentleman just hear , we be see big increase in initial teacher training acceptance in many of those key subject such as math and science . on the commitment we have make , we have 60 , 000 few child in primary over the course of the last year and , as a former holder of this office , he would rightly expect that we target our effort in area of great need . sadly , we be see a big decline in the number of child in primary , with the number forecast to fall by another 165 , 000 over the next few year , so we be focus our effort where they be need . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State just say that the Government be turn around decline in teacher number . under the last government the number of teacher go up by 27 , 000 ; under this government it be down by 400 . that be the opposite of the truth . one thing that drive people out of teaching be poor discipline , yet the Government have abolish behaviour hub , despite the evidence that they be work . the Government say they would put in place new behaviour ambassador , who be suppose to be in place on 4 July , but the contract have now lapse and the position be vacant . why the delay on this vital issue ? that be very shouty from the shadow Minister , and as per usual very negative about what we be see across education . we be turn around the problem that the Conservatives leave behind on teacher recruitment and retention . we be increase attendance in our school and improve behaviour — a challenge that I completely agree school need support to deal with — put more money back into parent ' pocket and tackle child poverty . the Conservatives have only one policy , and that be to give a tax break to private school . Mental Health Support in Schools what step she be take to improve mental health support in school . this Government be commit to improve mental health support for all child and young people . that be why we be provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school by expand mental health support team so that every child and young person have access to early support to address problem before they escalate . I thank the Minister for his reply and for last week ' s publication of the new relationship , sex and health education — RSHE — curriculum guidance . I be pleased to see that secondary school be now be ask to talk about suicide prevention in an age - appropriate way . Andy , Mike and Tim , the 3 Dads walk , have campaign hard for this change over a number of year , and I be pleased that the Government have work with they to make this happen . will the Minister join I in thank the three dad , and can he say how this will be implement in school so that we can help save young life ? I thank my hon . friend for the tireless work she have do on these important issue in this place . we be grateful for the contribution of 3 dad walk in develop the new RSHE guidance and we pay tribute to their inspirational determination and the courage show in their work to raise awareness . the guidance contain new content about cope strategy for deal with issue such as anxiety , but also cover issue such as loneliness and bereavement . it say that school should " consider carefully " how to address suicide prevention safely . great leadership be critical to support child to have a healthy mental condition . will the Minister join I in congratulate Leon Myers , the headteacher of swinemoor primary school , on the twice - repeat outstanding rating for that school , on his focus on the traditional value of endeavour , resilience and competitive spirit , and on his recent mbe in recognition of the transformation of opportunity he provide to child across the swinemoor estate ? I thank the right hon . member for his question , and I pay tribute to the member of staff he mention and all those who work across the education system to deliver improvement in life chance for all young people ; I thank he very much for his hard work . we know that timely access to mental health support be crucial . early this month , the Education Committee release its report on child ' s social care , which recommend that the Government establish mental health team that be co - locate between child and adolescent mental health service — CAMHS — and child ' s social care , so that look - after child can access specialist mental health support more easily . will the Minister share any assessment that the Department have make of this recommendation ? I thank my hon . friend for the hard work she have undertake on the Select Committee . she will know that we will deliver on our commitment on mental health support team in the course of the next few month and year . by 2026 , we estimate that 60 % of pupil in school and learner will have access to national health service test — nhst — and I will take her suggestion back to the Department . good mental health at school be sometimes bolster by out - of - school support , especially for the most vulnerable child . last week , I meet Vicky and her team at Jigsaw Occupational Therapy in Burgess Hill , and I speak to the family they help . roughly a quarter of their work involve support kinship and adopt child and help they to regulate follow profound trauma . Vicky describe the impact on their child of the Government ' s cut to the adoption and special guardianship support fund as " heartbreaking " . can the Minister offer any word of comfort to Vicky and the family she help ? we be maintain the support available to child to ensure that there be reasonable support in place , and provide more funding to local authority . this Government be commit to break down the barrier to opportunity so that every child can succeed and thrive , and that be what we be get on and deliver . Post - 16 Education : skill what step her Department be take to help ensure that post - 16 education provide the skill necessary to support the economy . I would like to take this opportunity to celebrate the great gain that the Labour Government have make through our plan for change . since enter power , we have cut red tape , tilt the system towards young people and commit unprecedented investment for our school system . we be go far and fast with our post - 16 education and skill strategy . the apprenticeship levy be collect equally across the United Kingdom , but unfortunately it come back to Northern Ireland under the Barnett consequential . will the Minister look at an option for a system in which those employer who contribute to the apprenticeship levy can draw it back directly to support apprentice employ in their company ? I thank the hon . member for his question and his thoughtfulness regard the levy and its operation . as he be fully aware , skill be a devolved matter and funding in the devolved Administration remain the responsibility of that Government . we will continue to engage with the devolved Administrations as we develop the levy - fund growth and skill offer for England . I be recently lucky enough to visit Brigg infant school in South Normanton . it be a gorgeous school full of talented pupil and dedicated staff , but it have a problem : four and five - year - old be be teach in a prefab building that be not fit for purpose . I love to see the way that we invest in education , but these child have be let down by the previous Government . do the Minister agree that they deserve a classroom that be fit to be teach in , and will she look at this case ? I thank my hon . friend for her thoughtful question on the prefab . we have a plan to build , and I will take up this matter far with the appropriate Minister . I call the shadow Minister . before the election , Labour say that it would allow employer to take 50 % of their apprenticeship levy money and spend it on other thing , but since the a while election , different minister have say different thing about whether that be still happen . the Skills Minister say it would all depend on the spending review , but of course , the spending review be back . will business be able to take out 50 % as Labour promise or not ? I thank the hon . member for his question . we be a Government who continue to invest in education . we have flexibility available , and we have foundation apprenticeship and short apprenticeship . we be absolutely invest in young people to get they into the right job . yes or no ? order . the Minister will answer the question as she see fit . the hon . member may be frustrate , but we will carry on . Further Education Estate what step she be take to help improve the condition of the further education college estate . what step she be take to improve the quality of the further education estate . excellent further education college be a key building block of the Government ' s opportunity and growth mission . the Government be commit to improve the condition of school and college in England and will invest nearly £ 3 billion per year by 2034 - 2035 , rise from £ 2 . 4 billion in 2024 - 25 . the old survive locomotive roundhouse in Britain be in Derby , and what be once at the forefront of victorian engineering be now a cutting - edge learning environment for local young people who will build the home of the future . but the site be full to burst — Derby college need more space . do the Minister agree that if it become a construction technical excellence college , it could extend its site , increase its capacity in brickwork , carpentry and joinery by 50 % , and teach more student the construction skill we desperately need ? application to become construction technical excellence college close on 4 July . we look forward to inform successful candidate in due course . in addition , £ 375 million of capital investment will be invest between 2026 and 2030 to support post - 16 capacity to accommodate the additional learner enter the system . I know that the Minister will agree with I that in Exeter we have two of the country ' s most outstanding FE institution . exeter college be rate outstanding by Ofsted and as " strong " in its approach to meet the skill need of our area — the first time a college have achieve both . exeter math school be also rate outstanding and give student from across the south - west the opportunity to specialise in math , physics and computing . but as my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) say , that success come with its own challenge . both be burst at the seam and need capital investment to allow they to expand and continue their exceptional work . do the Minister agree that exeter college could also be an exceptional candidate to become a construction technical excellence college for the south - west , and will he meet I to discuss the way in which we can support those change ? I join my hon . friend in recognise the success of Exeter college and Exeter math school , which be both outstanding . as he will know , the Government have announce capital funding to improve the condition of the estate and accommodate rise student number as we hope to replicate the success of these setting across the country . the sixth form of the Lakes school near Windermere provide further education for young people within the central lake . the building be beyond be fit for purpose and need a rebuild . it also happen to be build on the site where the Windermere child who survive the death camp in 1945 be bring to be rehabilitate on the shore of windermere where they be first settle . on the 80th anniversary of their arrival , will the Minister agree to meet I and local people to look at a rebuild of the school and , at the same time , a memorial to the windermere child , so that we can honour their memory and support the child of the future , too ? ensure that school and college have the resource and building that they need be key to our mission to break down barrier to opportunity and ensure that every child can succeed and thrive . as always , I be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . I thank the Minister very much for his answer , as always . the hon . member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) refer to the construction sector . be it time perhaps to think outside the circle of what we usually do , through deal and partnership with construction company ? that would give we the opportunity to improve the education and college estate while make people available and knowledgeable for job in their future life , whether in construction or otherwise . it be time for partnership — let we do something perhaps a wee bit different . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : the construction sector be fundamental to the UK economy . that be why the Government ' s industrial strategy include a construction sector deal . we have commit £ 625 million to support construction skill training , and that funding include capital investment through the establishment of technical excellence college and the creation of an employer match funding pot worth £ 80 million . early Years what step she be take to increase the number of child meet the early learn goal . what step her Department be take to ensure more child receive support during their early year . our landmark strategy on give every child the good start in life set out plan to deliver Best Start family hub to make access to early education easy and more affordable , and to improve quality in setting and reception class . the strategy be back by £ 1 . 5 billion over the next three year , and government spending on the fund hour will reach £ 9 billion next year and will continue to rise over the Parliament . I thank the Minister for join I at Curwen primary school in Plaistow recently to see its excellent early year education work . he hear from parent about the struggle they often face as a result of serious economic and housing hardship . will he assure my constituent that the Government will look at community like mine , where housing and poverty create serious challenge for family , to ensure that all child , no matter their circumstance , get the good possible educational start in life ? I thank my hon . friend for our excellent visit to Curwen primary school last week , where I see excellent work on support child ' s speech and language to deliver for some of our most vulnerable child and family . our spending review commitment be a downpayment on the child poverty strategy to build on expand free breakfast club and free school meal , boost the national minimum wage and cap universal credit deduction through the fair repayment rate . sure Start , which be create by the previous Labour Government , boost attainment , improve health outcome and increase long - term earning . however , under the Conservatives , more than 30 child ' s centre in Derbyshire be closed , and derbyshire now do not have a single family hub . what action will the Government take to ensure that more young child in Derbyshire can once again access support during their early year ? it be a pleasure to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency recently , too . he be a real champion for child and young people . we will fund Best Start family hub in every local authority , include in Derbyshire . we estimate that the expansion could reach half a million child across the country . good Start family hub will be open to all and base in disadvantaged community , where they be need most . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I join Ministers in thank our school and college staff up and down the country for their dedication ? I wish they happy and restorative summer holiday . child with special educational need who start reception last year be over a year behind their peer , accord to the Education Policy Institute . staggeringly , those with an education , health and care plan be already over 20 month behind — the wide gap that the EPI have record since it start monitor in 2013 . give the importance of the early year in narrow the gap , it be crucial that we give every child the help that they need as soon as possible . will the Minister confirm how much of the £ 760 million for SEND transformation announce in the spending review will go towards early identification and intervention ? the Government be commit to ensure excellence for everyone so that child have the support , skill and opportunity that they need , and that start in early year . we be actively work with parent and expert on solution , include more early intervention to prevent need from escalate . any change we make will improve support for child and parent , stop parent have to fight for support , and protect current effective provision . SEND provision : fund what step her Department be take to ensure adequate funding for SEND provision . I be grateful to my hon . friend that important question . labour be provide £ 1 billion more for high - need budget , and also provide council with £ 740 million of capital funding to improve support for child with SEND in specialist and mainstream school . this investment will lay the foundation for the well system that child with SEND need . work with expert , we will set out our plan in the school White Paper in the autumn . the last Government leave behind a SEND system that be fail child and family . parent be make to fight for support , with education , health and care plan deny or delayed and vital service take away . tory cut to early year support , rise poverty and extreme deprivation in Blackpool , as well as the pandemic hit our child hard than most , have all combine to deepen the crisis face our most vulnerable young people . what step be the Education Secretary take to ensure child in disadvantaged community like mine , where the need be high and support often fall short , receive the targeted SEND support they urgently require ? my hon . friend be a powerful champion for his constituent and for Blackpool , and he be right that far too many child be not currently get the support they need in order to thrive . early intervention be key — more support at the early possible point to identify where child might be struggle , and to make sure that they get the help they need . that be why I be very proud to announce to the House that , build on the proud Labour legacy of sure Start , we will be roll out Best Start family hub to make sure that we have well family support service in every part of our country , include my hon . friend ' s community . the Secretary of State know that out - of - county placement be very expensive and highly unsatisfactory both for pupil and for family . will she therefore confirm that the excellent news that we have last year about a new SEND school be build at Bitham Park in Westbury will go ahead to the advantage of child and , importantly , their family , and can she assure I it be not go to be cancel in the proposal she have allude to ? I will happily write to the right hon . gentleman in relation to his constituency case . we be look carefully at all the proposal we inherit when we come in as a new government , but the assurance I can give he be that through the spending review we secure additional investment not just for revenue funding but also for capital funding to make sure that we be create the specialist place that be need in both the mainstream and also the specialist sector , which have an enormous amount of expertise . sadly , I have hear far too many case of the kind that he describe , where child be be force to travel considerable distance away from their local community and their friend because of an absence of specialist place . we be determined to improve that . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the staff , pupil and governor at Henry Tyndale community school on the official opening today of their new park campus in Aldershot , a vital new facility for student age four to 19 with complex learning difficulty ? this outstanding school be name after Henry Tyndale , who give two decade of tireless service as a volunteer , fundraiser and friend to child with the great difficulty , and whose legacy continue to shape the school ' s inclusive spirit . what step be the Government take to support the creation of more school like Henry Tyndale , so that child with SEND in my community and beyond have access to the high - quality , specialist environment they deserve ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the amazing work in the specialist sector and the tremendous expertise , knowledge and passion that so many people bring to support child with some of the most complex need . that be why how we can deliver well outcome for child with SEND be at the forefront of all of our mind as we bring forward any reform to the system . that will be our guide principle — it must be our guide principle . so alongside well mainstream inclusion , we will of course make sure that there be the specialist provision necessary for the child who need it . I have hear from and meet with numerous constituent who be parent of child with special educational need , all frustrated with the way that the system currently work . I welcome the Secretary of State say she want outcome for child to be at the centre of reform , but a parent of a child with an EHCP , which help they to be in mainstream education , recently tell I of the fear and horror she feel when she hear about potential Government reform due to the risk of her son lose the ability to stay in a school that have , in her word , be an absolute godsend for he . can the Secretary of State assure parent that her reform will not take away support that child currently have and will ensure that every child have the support they need to genuinely thrive ? I can be clear that child with SEND have a legal right to additional support , and Labour will always protect that . I would say , however , that we all have a responsibility in how we approach the issue — a responsibility not to cause undue alarm among parent who be experience a system that be not work and that be too adversarial . I believe that a well system will be deliver . we can make sure that child get early , timely support that be much more effective and focus on their outcome . the plan that we will set out later this year will be shape by all the conversation with the parent who she describe — conversation that I , too , have have — and with expert , school leader and campaigner to make sure that we get they right . I call the shadow Minister . parent be get in touch with mps across the country to ask whether exist special need support will continue under the plan reform . the Minister for School Standards have say that the Government will not remove " effective support " , but what do that word " effective " mean ? who will judge what be effective , and on what basis ? why will the Government not just guarantee that all child will keep the support that they currently have ? as I say in response to the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , child with SEND have a legal right to additional support . we will not just protect it , but improve it . we will deliver well outcome and support for child with SEND . I do not know how the shadow Minister have the brass neck to stand there and ask that question , give that the Conservatives leave behind a system that their last Education Secretary describe as " lose , lose , lose " . it be for that reason that we deal with so many question on this topic every time we gather for education question . what we have at the moment be not work by any objective measure : child be be fail and parent be be fail . it fall to the Labour Government to deliver the well system of support that all our child with SEND desperately need . Classroom disruption : smartphone what assessment her Department have make of the potential impact of the use of smartphone in school on level of disruption in classroom . what step she be take to support school that plan to ban smartphone . mobile phone have no place in school . government guidance be clear that school should prohibit the use of device with smart technology throughout the school day . research from the Children ' s Commissioner show that 99 . 8 % of primary school and 90 % of secondary school already have policy restrict the use of mobile phone . many of the young people I meet in school across Epping Forest be clear that they agree with the local school policy of restrict mobile phone when they be at school . sadly , however , the Government have repeatedly refuse to heed conservative call to protect our child with a national ban on phone in school — even vote against it . body such as UNESCO and the OECD be crystal clear about the negative impact of phone on young people ' s education , so when will the Government listen to the evidence and to our school leader , and support a ban on smartphone in school for the sake of our young people ' s education and mental health ? I have say that phone should not be out in school , and head have the power to enforce that . the opposition back those measure . if they feel they need to go far , they have 14 long year in which to do so . last Thursday , I feel the fear in a hall full of parent of primary school child in Totnes as they listen to campaigner go through the evidence of the impact of smartphone on kid at secondary school . there be a clear safeguarding issue around kid see video of hardcore pornography and violence . I be therefore pleased that Tina Graham , the head of Kingsbridge community college , have just announce a smartphone - free policy from September to protect child , which will mean no phone in school at all except for reasonable adjustment . that be a much well policy than the " not see — put it in your bag " policy that most school follow . in the light of such safeguarding concern , where every child be only as safe as the least safe phone in school , why will the Minister not do the one thing that could transform our child ' s mental and physical health , and school attainment and direct all school to go smartphone free — order . please , this be not fair ; I have to get other in . I call the Minister . the hon . Lady ' s question demonstrate that mobile phone have no place in school , and there be already guidance to reflect that . the mobile phone in school guidance be clear and school should prohibit the use of device with smart technology throughout the school day , include during lesson , transition and break . we expect all school to take step in line with that guidance to ensure that mobile phone do not disrupt pupil ' learning . if pupil fail to follow those rule , school should have the power to confiscate device . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the other place , Baroness Smith of Malvern , a Minister in the Department for Education , say : " there be no clear scientific consensus on a negative impact from screen time and social medium use on the mental health and neurological or functional development of child and young people . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 23 June 2025 ; Vol . 847 , c . 55 . ] I fundamentally disagree . there be overwhelming and extensive evidence of the harm cause , so I want to know the Government ' s position . do the Minister agree with his ministerial colleague or with I on this issue ? last year , the right hon . Lady ' s Government claim that action on mobile phone be prohibit their use in school and that guidance mean " a consistent approach across all school . " those be their word . in back the Tory Government ' s measure , be she wrong then , or be she wrong now ? sixth - form college : fund what assessment she have make of the adequacy of funding for sixth - form college . I take this opportunity to thank all post - 16 provider and staff for their tireless work over the last academic year and wish they a restful summer break . follow the autumn Budget , this Government make available more than £ 400 million extra plan spending on 16 - to - 19 education in the financial year 2025 - 26 . since then , an additional £ 190 million for 2025 - 26 have be make available to respond to 16 - to - 19 demographic growth and other pressure on the system , create opportunity for young people to succeed . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a governor of the City of Stoke - on - trent sixth - form college and the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on sixth form education . I thank the Minister for her answer ; the additional capital available for post - 16 provider be very welcome . the City of Stoke - on - trent sixth - form college be see a huge increase in interest around science , healthcare science and computer science — subject that be mission - critical to the delivery of the Government ' s ambitious programme . when will the capital be available so that my sixth form and other around the country can build high - quality learning environment for young learner ? I thank my hon . friend for mention his fantastic City of Stoke - on - trent sixth - form college . I reassure he and other member that this Government be commit to ensure that there be a place in education or training for every 16 to 18 - year - old who want one . detail of the £ 375 million of capital investment to accommodate additional learner enter the system will be announce in due course . a report present to the APPG for care - experience child and young people reveal that more than 4 , 000 young people in care either move placement or leave care during their a - level exam period . what step be the Minister take to ensure that school and college be properly equip to support care - experienced student face such instability at a crucial point in their education ? I thank the hon . member for her thought - provoke question . she really advocate for care leaver and for ensure that they have the durability they need at school to ensure they have a seamless experience . I reassure she that care leaver who start an apprenticeship be entitle to £ 3 , 000 bursary , and local authority must provide a £ 2 , 000 bursary for care leaver who go on to university . let I just say that this Government be extremely concerned with education not be break for care leaver and ensure that we support they in every which way we can . child with SEND what step she be take to support child with SEND who do not have an education , health and care plan . what step she be take to improve support for child with SEND . we be engage extensively with family and expert as we seek to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . we have invest £ 1 billion into high - need budget and £ 740 million into create more specialist place . we be roll out scheme , from the partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school — the PINS programme — to Inclusion 2028 , which be lay the groundwork for long - term reform . we be build a system in which every child can achieve and thrive . I thank the Minister for that answer . on Friday , I have the opportunity to visit the outstanding Springfield primary school in my constituency . it have 500 pupil , 30 of whom have education , health and care plan , with six application in currently . can the Minister reassure the parent of those six child and the many , many parent across the country that , while this review into ehcp be go on , local education authority will not slow - roll exist application or fail they as a default in order for they to go to tribunal and try to beat the clock ? we have yet to decide on the future of education , health and care plan , but we be extremely focused on strengthen the support system so that every child can receive timely , high - quality help . we will set out further detail about our approach to special educational need in this autumn ' s White Paper . in the meantime , obviously , child should be get the support they need , and we be put in the groundwork so that more child can have that . we know that early intervention be most effective for child with SEN , but too many child in my constituency of Morecambe and Lunesdale have be let down in that respect . however , Lancashire be , for the first time , receive funding for Best Start hub . can the Minister tell I how that will improve early support for those child ? as I say , we be already invest in support child and their family , include through Best Start family hub , as my hon . Friend mention . we want to ensure that all child have access to a family service professional who be train to support inclusion , can identify where child have additional need ahead of start school , and can support parent to navigate service . Magna Carta School if she will provide a timeline for the completion of construction work at the Magna Carta school in Egham . ensure that school and college have the resource and building they need be a key part of our mission to break down the barrier to opportunity and give every child the good start in life . for this project , I can confirm that the Department be in the process of finalise the feasibility study , and we expect to procure the work later this year . until that process be complete , we will be unable to advise on the length of the construction programme . however , positive progress continue to be make in collaboration with the trust . I thank the Minister for his answer . can he clarify whether the Magna Carta school will have a full rebuild , due to the presence of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , or be it just the science and art block that will be rebuild ? will he meet I to discuss this issue and the work that will take place on such a fantastic local school ? I be very happy to meet the hon . member . Virtual Teachers if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of virtual teacher on school child . this Government be commit to ensure that every child can access the tool they need in order to achieve and thrive . we inherit a challenge workforce picture from the previous Government , which be why we be commit to recruit an additional 6 , 500 teacher . we be back teacher and restore teaching to be a highly value profession . there be no doubt that technology have a key role to play in drive high and rise standard at school . however , the most important factor for high - quality education be have an expert teacher at the front of the classroom . in Rossendale , the academy trust that run our " stuck " school , Valley leadership academy , recently announce plan to introduce a virtual teacher for top - set math . this approach have understandably raise a lot of concern , and I have be work with the trust to make sure it be design in the pupil ' good interest . I have be assure that this will be a temporary measure , that a qualified math teacher will be in the room to provide additional support , and that an appropriate range of adjustment will be make for SEND pupil . however , I remain concerned that , without safeguard , virtual teacher may become a default cost - save measure to address recruitment challenge . will the Minister share her view on how we can ensure that such an approach be always design in pupil ' good interest — order . come on , Andy . I call the Minister . technology have the potential to enhance time efficiency for teacher , reduce workload and improve student engagement and attainment , but it can not replace the valuable relationship between teacher and pupil . we know that high - quality teaching have the big impact on a child ' s educational outcome . school leader rightly have the autonomy to make decision about staff deployment , and they be well place to make decision about the need of their pupil . security in Schools : Bomb Threats what step she be take to increase security in school against bomb threat . safeguard child in school be a priority for this Government , and school have a critical role to play in protect child and keep they safe . departmental guidance be clear that school and college should have a policy and an emergency plan in place to manage and respond to security - relate incident . I thank the Minister for his response , and for our recent meeting . give that we have have two fake bomb threat in Swindon , which have obviously have a negative impact on my school , will he assess the current guidance so that we can learn lesson from what have happen in Swindon and improve that guidance for the future ? I thank my hon . friend for our meeting last week . as I explain to he then , the Department for Education publish the protective security and preparedness guidance , which set out how school should respond to bomb threat and how to embed a security culture . action counter Terrorism for Education e - learning , which include information on what to do in the event of a bomb threat , be also available to all school staff . rebuild Schools what step she be take to help rebuild school . this Government have make a long - term commitment to improve the condition of school and college . we be invest almost £ 20 billion in the school rebuilding programme through to 2035 , deliver rebuilding project at over 500 school across England , include eight school in Scarborough and Whitby . a further 250 school will be select within the next two year . by 2035 , we will also be invest almost £ 3 billion per year in capital maintenance for school and college , and that figure will rise to £ 2 . 4 billion this year . springhead sixth form in Scarborough have be rate outstanding for the education and care it provide for student with complex special educational need and disability . the staff be amazing , but the sixth form be house in an old and unsuitable building . when I visit Springhead , I see one student be tutor in a modify corridor due to overcrowding . what step be the Minister take to ensure that pupil with special educational need be educate in school building that can match those need ? we have increase funding to improve the condition of school to £ 2 . 1 billion for 2025 - 26 , which include more than £ 7 million for North Yorkshire to invest in its maintain school , include Springhead . North Yorkshire have also be allocate £ 6 . 8 million for 2025 - 26 to provide suitable and accessible school place for pupil with SEND who require alternative provision . a number of year ago , Woodfield school in Bilton in my constituency be closed . it have be rebuild as a specialist school for child with autism . it be mean to open in September last year , but that be delay until September this year . will the Minister meet I and confirm whether it will open on time this September ? I be happy to meet the hon . member . SEND : education , Health and Care plan what assessment she have make of the potential impact of propose reform to education , health and care plan on child with SEND . give the " lose , lose , lose " system that the last Government leave behind — in their own word — we be work hard to reform the system so that every child can achieve and thrive . any reform will be guide by how we improve support for child with SEND . there will always be a legal right to additional support , which this Government will protect . give that answer , I will quote the Secretary of State . she be say early that the system be so distorted that the financial allocation do not reflect the real need of child . that mean that local authority have huge deficit through no fault of their own ; they be try to do their job . when she come up with her new policy in the autumn , will she commit to write off those deficit so that those authority can do the job in the future ? as part of our reform , we will commence a phase transition process , which will include work with local authority to manage their SEND system , include their deficit , alongside an extension to the statutory override until the end of 2027 - 28 . we will set out more detail about the plan for how we will support local authority with the historical and accruing deficit accumulate under the last government and since , due to the appalling situation that we inherit . on Friday I have the privilege of spend a good few hour with SEND parent in my constituency , talk about what do not work under the current system and what we would like to see change . there be a lot of frustration and a lot of tear . they be honest and open about their upset at the current system , but there be also a lot of idea and a determination to make change happen , so that those who come after we do not have to go through the same stress and anxiety that we do as SEND parent . will the Secretary of State guarantee that the voice of parent , carer and family will be integral to form the school White Paper that be due out in the autumn ? I can give my hon . friend that reassurance . I know that she be incredibly passionate about improve the SEND system , and this Government share that passion . we be not only determined to restore the trust of parent by ensure that school and local area can well identify and support child ; we be also work with parent and family to create that system , which we know will improve outcome for child and their family . apprenticeship what step she be take to support young people into apprenticeship . labour be rebalancing opportunity towards young people , give they the skill they need to get on . apprenticeship start , achievement and participation be all up under this Government . from August , we be introduce foundation apprenticeship to support young people into career in critical sector , such as construction and health and social care . I feel sure that the Minister be aware that the outstanding West Suffolk college in Bury St Edmunds , with more than 10 , 000 enrol student , be part of the outstanding Eastern Education Group , under the leadership of Nikos Savvas . do she agree that West Suffolk college be an outstanding candidate to be award the status of be the construction technical college of excellence for the east of England ? that would boost skill in construction , which be crucial for the new West Suffolk hospital and the Sizewell C construction site , which be the large construction site in Europe . I thank my hon . friend for his question and , indeed , for his lobbying . labour ' s technical excellence college will be crucial to our plan to rewire our school system to unlock opportunity for young people and drive growth for our country . my hon . friend be right : West Suffolk College be an outstanding provider , and I be sure that its remarkable achievement will be consider during the selection of our technical excellence college . degree apprenticeship be great for social mobility and for matching skill to the economy , and I be such a fan of they that I create one in my parliamentary office . would the Secretary of State like to take the time for congratulate Jack Kellas , who have achieve not just a distinction in his apprenticeship but a first - class honour degree from the University of Lincoln , and will she do all that she can to ensure that more people have opportunity to take part in degree apprenticeship and achieve the same success as Jack ? I thank the hon . member for share Jack Kellas ' s wonderful achievement . level 6 apprenticeship be a core part of our offer , and we continue to fund they . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like first to address last week ' s tragic incident in Minehead . I be sure that all member will join I in offer support and prayer to everyone affect by the Minehead middle school bus crash last Thursday . our deep sympathy and condolence go to all those affect at the school and in the wide community , and particularly to the family and friend of the 10 - year - old boy who tragically lose his life . Most of the injure have now be release from hospital . support have already be put in place for those affect , and it will continue into the summer break and beyond . I extend my thank to everyone involve in co - ordinating and deliver this vital help , and I also pay tribute to the emergency service for their incredible response in the most challenging of circumstance . this Labour Government believe that child grow up in our country deserve the very good start in life , which be why we be invest nearly £ 1 . 5 billion over the next three year to transform early year and family service . that will include £ 500 million to roll out good Start family hub in every local authority , honour the proud legacy of sure Start and ensure that every family can thrive regardless of postcode or income . Labour be build back the crucial family service that be decimate by the Tories , provide high - quality support for parent , baby and child from pregnancy onwards — and we be only just get start . last week I visit the Outwood academy school in Kirkby - in - Ashfield , which have go from double special measure to " good " in just three year under the leadership of the Outwood Grange Academies Trust . will the Secretary of State please say a big thank you to the trust , and the staff , for help to turn the school around and give the child in my town the education that they deserve ? like the hon . Gentleman , I welcome the hard work of our teacher , leader and support staff , and I be always pleased to hear about improvement in standard . this Government be ambitious for every child , and our new regional improvement in standard and excellence team be work across school to bring together leader with experience in turn school around . what I would say to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be that , thank to this Labour Government , thousand of child will now benefit from free school meal , the new breakfast club that be open in his constituency will be a big boost to his constituent , and we be deliver new funding for Best Start family hub . that be the difference that a Labour Government be make for his constituent . it remain a reality that it be possible to take a GCSE in Russian but not in Ukrainian , and I have resolve to do my part to help because I believe that a ukrainian GCSE should be available to all . as this be a topical question , I bring some encouraging news : I have write to all the exam board — order . topical question should be quick . it will be , Mr Speaker , absolutely — topical and quick . AQA have report back to I that it be very open to the idea , but it need to see evidence that we have enough Ukraine - speak teacher who be willing to teach the subject and to mark the paper . the good news be that , with support from parliamentary colleague , I have find 250 teacher who can do just that . do my hon . friend agree that it should now be just a matter of time before a ukrainian GCSE be available to all ? my hon . friend clearly know that the decision to create any new GCSE be make by an independent award organisation , but I have also meet the Ukrainian Education Minister , and I know how important this issue be to ukrainian family live in the United Kingdom and to other . the Secretary of State have write to the award organisation to encourage they to create a ukrainian GCSE . I be now well aware of my hon . friend ' s interest in the issue , and I be more than happy to convey it as well . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I completely support the Secretary of State ' s opening word , and my thought and prayer be with all those affect by the devastating incident . government document state that the first step in achieve their primary school readiness mission be meet their target of recruit 6 , 500 teacher . the Secretary of State claim at the last oral question that she have always be clear that the 6 , 500 teacher be in secondary school . if that be true , can she explain how secondary school teacher recruitment contribute to improve primary school readiness for four - year - old ? this Labour Government be deliver the teacher that be desperately need right across our school . we be leave behind a terrible crisis when it come to recruitment and retention , but this Labour Government know that improve standard in our school require have the good possible teacher available to teach all our child . that be why we deliver a pay award , and why we be make sure that we be tackle all the issue around workload . we be get on and deliver the plan for change . the right hon . Lady come here with the same relentless negativity week in , week out . we be deliver new free breakfast club , free school meal , cheap uniform , high - quality childcare and more apprenticeship . that be the difference the Labour Government be make . this be farcical . will the Secretary of State finally admit that the original pledge to hire 6 , 500 teacher include primary school teacher , and that the Government be now abandon their pledge ? the reality be that , accord to their own website , there be 400 few teacher than last year . there be 60 , 000 few child in primary school this year . I know the right hon . Lady be at the Treasury , so I would expect a bit more when it come to her math . it would be nonsensical to recruit even more primary school teacher when we have fall roll . we be focus our effort where they be need , and I be delighted that we be see big increase in the number of secondary math teacher , secondary physics teacher and secondary STEM teacher . there be big increase right across the board — that be what Labour be deliver . last week , I have the pleasure of host in Parliament the Outcomes First Group , a group of specialist SEND school . they present their proposal for fix the broken SEND system , include support more child in mainstream education , support collaboration between school and upskille teacher . do the Minister agree that those be exactly the sort of change that be need to fix the SEND system , and will she meet I and the school in my constituency to learn more ? indeed , we be build a reform system in which child and young people ' s need will be identify early , so that evidence - base support can be provide at the early opportunity . early this year , I be pleased to open Benton House , a special school in my constituency that be also run by the Outcomes First Group . it be great to see such a well - resource facility support child with complex need . I would be delighted to hear more about the work in my hon . friend ' s constituency and the proposal . rise — order . please , we have to try to get in as many member as possible . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I echo the Secretary of State ' s remark about the tragedy in Minehead . my thought and prayer be with all those affect . every parent who put a baby into childcare want to know that they be safe . in the light of the crucial role that CCTV play in the harrowing case at Twickenham Green nursery in my constituency , which result in a nursery worker be convict of 21 count of child cruelty last month , and in the tragic case of Gigi Meehan in Cheadle , will the Secretary of State commit to issue fresh guidance to nursery on the use and regular monitoring of CCTV footage ? the hon . Member will know that I meet the family of Genevieve Meehan recently . that be a tragic case . we need to make sure that we be do everything we possibly can to protect child in nursery setting . that be why I be pleased that in the " good start in life " strategy , publish just two week ago , we commit to have early year setting inspect within 18 month and , indeed , within four year . I have offer a meeting with the hon . member , and I be very happy to discuss these issue far . apprenticeship should be open to everyone . I have meet too many young people in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme who be more than capable of do the job — they have the hand - on skill , the attitude and the drive to work — but be be hold back from apprenticeship because they have to get a grade 4 in English or math . when will the Government move forward with reform the rule so that we stop shut out good people from good job just because they do not get a pass in the classroom ? I absolute agree with my hon . friend . this government will indeed stop shut good people out of good job . he be probably aware that the Department fund apprentice to achieve a qualification as part of their training . we do not set entry requirement ; these be decision for employer . however , we have allow for more flexibility in English and math requirement for adult age 19 and over . child in receipt of fund from the adoption and special guardianship support fund often have significant mental health , wellbee and educational need . for many of these child , their individual therapy be the single big factor enable they to continue at school . what assessment have the Minister make of the implication of cut funding for this therapy ? the adoption and special guardianship support fund provide valuable therapeutic support to child and family , which be why we have commit to continue the £ 50 million to this financial year . we have be hold discussion with key stakeholder , and we will soon announce the next step for the fund . as well as be the governor of a sixth - form college , I be proud to be a governor of the Abbey Hill special school in Stoke - on - Trent — I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests accordingly — which be why I be so appalled by the comment of the Reform UK chairman that child with special need be " naughty child " , often as the result of " bad parenting " . can I invite the Secretary of State to condemn those comment , and to reaffirm our support for those child and parent ? I join my hon . friend in condemn those remark . I be aware that the Reform UK leader say , in similar comment , " I ' m not be heartless , I ' m be frank " . well , I will be frank : Reform UK would plunge the SEND system into further disarray . only Labour will back the child with SEND who need support . the citizenAID first aid charity provide excellent education in emergency situation to child and young people . I have write to the scottish education department to invite it to introduce it to the curriculum . be there any interest from the Department for Education down here ? if the hon . Gentleman would write to I , I will look into that far . meaningful work experience can be a life changer for our young child , cut the risk of their be out of education , employment or training . the Derby Promise be hard at work link school with employer to raise the aspiration of our young people . do the Minister agree with I , and do she recognise the valuable work that the Derby Promise deliver in open door for young people ? I do indeed agree with my hon . friend , and I applaud he for the work he do on the Derby Promise before he enter this place and for all he have do for child in Derby South since . I be delighted that employer such as Rolls - Royce have sign up to the Derby Promise to bring industry close to young people and to inspire their future career . Essex have see a huge increase in the number of request for education , health and care need assessment , and be fail to meet the target , in part due to the difficulty of recruit educational psychologist . rather than try to bury the problem by scrap education , health and care plan , can the Minister say what the Government be do to meet that need ? the right hon . Gentleman be pre - empte decision before they have be make . we have not make decision about the future of ehcp . we be listen carefully and work with the sector to make sure we have the workforce in the system and the support system to identify need early . we will continue to do that , and we will work with family to design a system that work , rather than the one we inherit . York be seek to advance new model of support for child with SEND that be inclusive and provide opportunity , include great curriculum flexibility to deliver a broad education in small group and a life skill curriculum so child be equip to navigate the world around they safely . would the Minister support City of York council to deliver such measure ? the hon . Lady will know that a curriculum and assessment review be currently be undertake by an independent panel . we be keen that the curriculum be broad and rich , but also inclusive . we will be respond when the panel report with its recommendation in the autumn . when the Secretary of State talk of such a large reduction in the number of anticipate future primary school pupil , do she attribute any part of that to a wish by certain community to develop a parallel education system , rather than engage in full integration with this country ? I be not quite clear what the right hon . Gentleman be drive at with that question . what I have say in response to the very sharp decline in the birth rate be that as a Government we want to make sure that people be able to make choice that be right for they , include around family size . my concern be that too many young people , because of the inaccessibility of housing and the challenge they face in the job market , be make decision they do not necessarily want to make . that be why the expansion of childcare , for example , be a critical part of how we be support family . those work in our school in South Gloucestershire do a brilliant job , but they receive the low funding per pupil in all of England via a funding formula inherit from the previous Government . do the Minister have plan to review the formula as part of the impactful wide work to ensure that every child receive the education they need to thrive , no matter where they live ? we recognise that school be work incredibly hard to deliver in their community . there be a whole range of factor that impact school funding , include their rural or urban nature and pupil number ; we have discuss decline roll . we will continue to keep the school funding formula under review . that do take time and it have to be do very carefully to ensure certainty for school about their funding planning . last year , 565 ehcp be issue in Cambridgeshire , with few than 10 % complete within the statutory 20 - week deadline . Cambridgeshire county council now rank as the 10th bad nationally for meet the timeline on their delivery . with 99 % of SEND tribunal finding in favour of the parent , what step be the Secretary of State take to improve the process that see so many application require a tribunal , and to improve the delivery of ehcp in Cambridgeshire , assume they be not go to be scrap in mainstream school ? until that final point , I think the hon . Gentleman raise some serious concern , which we have hear this afternoon from many colleague across the House who need we to bring forward reform to deliver well outcome for child with SEND . if the conservative party want to work with we to do this in a way that deliver a well system for child with SEND , I would be very happy to do so , but at the moment all we seem to get be opposition for opposition ' s sake . Victoria college in my constituency be one of the relatively small number of SEND specialist further education college in the country . it do outstanding work . for many year , such college have not have access to dedicated capital grant funding . will the Minister be so good as to look into the issue and agree to meet I to discuss it far ? ensure that school and college have the resource and building they need be a key part of our mission to break down barrier to opportunity . I will be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss these issue far . sadly , both university in my constituency , De Montfort University and Leicester University , be on the verge of make hundred of redundancy and even shut down complete faculty . what financial commitment be the Department make to secure academic job , especially in subject such as chemistry , humanity and language , rather than make short - term cut ? the hon . Gentleman will appreciate that university be independent institution that be able to make their own decision around financial management . as a government , we have seek to stabilise the high education sector . that be why we take the difficult but necessary decision to increase tuition fee . later this year , we will be publish a post - 16 strategy that will deal with many of his question . last week , I hear from a mum who apply for an EHCP for her son in December and be tell it would be ready in June . she have now be inform by Buckinghamshire council that he remain unallocated , with 789 child ahead of he . I be very grateful to the Secretary of State for the work she be do to grip and reform the SEND system , but can she talk more about her ambition to support people catch in the horrible waiting game for ehcp ? we have hear this afternoon from my hon . friend and so many member across the House about the urgent need to make improvement for child with SEND . we be lay the foundation with more investment in the system , through both the high need budget and capital , so we have the place that be need . there be , of course , much we be do right now with council to improve some of the unacceptable wait that parent currently face . the superb John Hampden school in Wendover report that it be run a £ 109 , 000 deficit support student with significant SEND while they await assessment . however , it be an infant - only school , and the money often do not come through until the pupil have move up to a junior school . will the Minister look at how the system be work for infant - only school , to make the system fair ? as we have say , we be look at reform to the system ; we recognise that there be challenge right across the system that we inherit . we know that family face challenge in secure support and that school face challenge , too . we will look at every detail and announce reform in the White Paper in the autumn . I recently host a series of engagement and roundtable on the SEN reform , and it be impossible to ignore the sheer size of the problem this Government be confront . will the Secretary of State confirm that the legal right to specialist support will remain a core principle of every child ' s entitlement as Labour rebuild this break system and that we will go far , deliver real outcome , genuine inclusion and an SEN system build to serve family , not fail they ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work he have do in this area over many year and for the way he champion this cause here on behalf of his constituent . I can confirm that child with SEND have a legal right to additional support and that Labour will protect that . he will appreciate that discussion be under way with family , campaigner and school leader to ensure that we get this system right — a well system with strengthen support and more timely intervention and early identification of need . it be clear this afternoon that that mission be urgent , and that we need to deliver well outcome for child with SEND . I look forward to work with my hon . friend on that . Asylum Hotels : migrant Criminal Activity before I call the shadow Home Secretary to ask this urgent question , I remind the House that hon . member must not refer to any matter that be currently before the court . member be free to refer to broad policy issue , but they should not get into the detail of the specific case for which criminal charge be be bring . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Home Secretary to make a statement on criminal activity by illegal immigrant at asylum hotel . as the House will be aware , on Tuesday 8 July an arrest be make by Essex police follow incident that take place in Epping early that day , and a man be subsequently charge . his trial be due to start on 26 August , and he have be remand in custody until that time . these be very serious allegation and it be vital that criminal justice procedure be able to run their course — Superintendent Tim Tubbs of Essex police have say that " the last thing we want be for any public discussion to hinder an ongoing prosecution . " I thank Essex police both for its swift response on that case and for handle the protest in Essex yesterday evening and in previous day with diligence and professionalism . criminal activity of any kind be totally unacceptable , wherever it occur and whoever it be perpetrate by . as outline follow the recent Casey report , we be improve joint protection arrangement between the police and immigration enforcement link to the asylum system . we be clear that where crime be commit , every effort must be make to catch , prosecute and punish those responsible . let there be absolutely no doubt : foreign national , include asylum seeker , who abuse our hospitality by break our law should expect to be remove from this country . in the first year of this Government , 5 , 179 foreign national criminal be remove from the UK — a 14 % increase on the previous year . that be important progress , but we want to go far . through the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , we be change the law to ensure that individual convict of any register sexual offence be not grant asylum , and we be legislate to allow for the tagging of any migrant consider to pose a threat to public safety or national security , as well as strengthen our crackdown on illegal working . but we must go far to end hotel use . this Labour Government inherit an asylum system in chaos , with 400 hotel in use at the peak in 2023 at a cost of almost £ 9 million a day . we be change that , clear the asylum backlog and increase return to end the use of asylum hotel all together by the end of this Parliament . alongside those action , we be mount a comprehensive and wide - range effort to tackle small boat crossing , include the intensify co - operation and pilot return scheme with France outline by the Home Secretary in her statement last week . there be no quick fix for the chronic problem this Government inherit , but , for the first time in year , there be now a serious and sensible plan to restore order and proper management to the asylum and immigration system . let I state plainly to the House that we expect rule to be respect and enforce , and we expect the law to be follow . when it be not , we expect those involve to face the full force of the law . we be take every possible step to deliver the strong border security that the country need , because nothing matter more than the safety of the british people . the Policing Minister be crow about the Government ' s action on small boat , but the truth be this : so far this year , the Government have allow in 23 , 000 illegal immigrant across the channel — that be 52 % up on last year ; this year have be by far the bad ever ; and number in asylum hotel be now high than at the time of the election . this be a border security crisis , but it be also a public safety crisis , especially for woman and girl . many nationality cross — for example , Afghans — commit up to 20 time more sex offence than average ; Louise Casey make that point in her report . now we have press reporting on the huge scale of the crime commit by illegal immigrant house in the Government ' s own asylum hotel . the Sun find 339 charge in the last six month base on only half the hotel currently operate . the Mail on Sunday find 708 charge base on only a third of those hotel . those crime include multiple case of rape , sexual assault , violence , theft and arson , include the case that the Minister refer to in Epping , where a 38 - year - old ethiopian man have be charge with sexually assault a 14 - year - old girl . an illegal immigrant in Oxford have be convict of rape a 20 - year - old woman in a churchyard . a sudanese man be convict of strangle and attempt to rape a woman in a nightclub toilet in Wakefield . violent protest in response to those appalling crime be never justify . the public , though , be rightly sick of this illegal immigrant crime wave . it have to end . will the Minister commit now to do the follow thing ? first , will she record and publish the immigration status of all offender ? secondly , will she close that asylum hotel in Epping ? thirdly , will she repeal the Human Rights Act for immigration matter ? finally , will she emulate Greece ' s new approach , which start today , and deport all illegal immigrant on arrival from France without judicial process either back to their country of origin or to a safe third country ? will she give the House and the country those commitment ? let I repeat to the House that any allegation of crime or sexual assault — include by individual in the asylum system — be incredibly serious and be to be treat so by the authority and by the Government . I regret the tone that the shadow Home Secretary be take on such a serious and important matter . I also gently remind he to look at his record and that of the conservative party on this issue . More than 400 asylum hotel be in operation at their peak , housing over 50 , 000 people at a cost of almost £ 9 million a day . enforce return be down 50 % on 2010 . return of foreign national offender have fall by a thousand . criminal smuggler gang be able to exploit our weak border security — it be the bad year ever . there be no proper management of public safety risk pose by individual asylum seeker . [ interruption . ] order . do we both understand ? indicate assent . okay . carry on , Minister . there be no proper management of public safety risk pose by individual asylum seeker , and migrant could work illegally in the gig economy with few sanction for the company responsible . this government be grip the situation and turn the system around . we have remove 5 , 179 foreign national offender in our first year in office . just to put that in perspective for the benefit of the House , that be more foreign criminal than be remove in the entire 20 month when the right hon . Gentleman be the Minister for Immigration . we have covid ! excuse , excuse , excuse . I would say that the same pattern be true of illegal working — but actually it be even bad . in the first quarter of this year , we deliver more raid , more arrest and more fine for illegal working than the shadow Home Secretary manage in the entire time he be Immigration Minister . we do more in three month to crack down on illegal working than he manage in 20 . now — that ' s nonsense ! it be not nonsense ; it be fact . now we be try to go far in all these area , but it be clear that the Conservatives and their friend in Reform be the one try to stop we . we introduce counter - terror measure at the border to smash the gang responsible for the vile trade ; they vote against the Bill that deliver that . we introduce measure to ban sex offender from get asylum in the UK ; they vote against the Bill that deliver they . we introduce tag for those arrive illegally who pose a risk to the public , and extend illegal working duty to cover the gig economy ; once again , they vote against it . we have see 14 year of inaction , leave our border expose and our community fractured — yet the shadow Home Secretary have the cheek to lecture we about keep the country safe . I draw the attention of the House to my declaration of interest . People who come to this country legally and work hard be welcome , but the Minister be right to say that those who do not be not . we know that one of the big pull factor be the ability to work illegally in the UK . can the Minister set out what the Government be do to stamp out illegal working , and in particular the role of the new fair work agency introduce by the Employment Rights Bill , which will be critical in stop illegal working in the UK ? my hon . friend will know that the Immigration Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , who I believe give evidence to the esteemed Home Affairs Committee on which he sit , be look at that issue . a number of company have be report in the press as employ or use people in particular from asylum hotel — I know the shadow Home Secretary have take a particular interest in this — and the Minister be work very hard to ensure that those company be hold to account , and that the new provision we be bring in to ensure that the gig economy be treat in the same way as other employer , who have to check individual ' immigration status , be follow through . there be much more to do , but certainly I know the Immigration Minister be work hard on this . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the scene of violent unrest at the Bell hotel this weekend be deeply concern . liberal Democrats will always defend the right to peaceful protest , but what we see go far beyond that . there be no place for that sort of violence and thuggery in our society . I thank the police and the emergency service for their brave and professional response , and my thought go out to anyone who be feel frightened as a result of those unacceptable scene . it be completely understandable that people be concerned about criminal activity , not least after the former Conservative Government ' s chaotic approach to immigration shatter public trust . that be why we need an efficient asylum system that swiftly return those without a genuine right to stay . I would welcome detail from the Minister on what step the Government be take to deliver that . clear rule that be properly enforce will be key to rebuild public trust in the system after it be break by the Conservatives . I welcome the tone of the hon . Lady ' s contribution . this be a serious issue ; I fully agree with she on peaceful protest , but it be totally unacceptable when that step over into violent disorder , as we see last summer , for example . she will know that there be a huge effort go in to deal with the backlog we inherit from the previous Government — to speed up the process so that those people who should not be in our country be swiftly remove , and those refugee and asylum seeker whose claim be accept can get on with the rest of their life . I welcome the surge in return that we have see and the raid on company with illegal working practice . as we have speak about many time in this House , those company be incentivise the boat crossing and ultimately undermine our national security . can the Minister set out what further enforcement there can be ? be it possible that conversation could be have with the Treasury about further measure that could be take to bring some of these company to heel ? I be the Policing Minister , but I know that work be already under way on that issue . the Immigration Minister have have a number of conversation , particularly with employer , as I have just say , about where work should not be take place because of individual ' immigration status . there have be investment in the National Crime Agency — additional officer be work on this issue — and work be under way on smash the gang who be behind bring people across in the small boat . there be also our international arrangement and treaty that we be sign with various country , which the previous Government be unable to do . I call the Father of the House . this be a real national crisis , and there be such an outcry and such outrage in the country that there be a real danger that people will take the law into their own hand , which we all deprecate . we have to solve this , and the only way to do so be to have a reasonable and proper deterrent . we must arrest the people who land on our shore , detain they and send they back to where they come from . the Human Rights Act 1998 be never intend to cover illegal immigrant of this sort . we have to do this for all our sake ; otherwise , people will wrongly take the law into their own hand . as I just say to the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , who speak for the Liberal Democrats , peaceful protest be completely acceptable . we understand that there be different opinion on immigration in this country , and people should be allow to voice those opinion . when that turn into violent disorder , as we have see , it be not acceptable . I know that the police behave in a very professional way . they allow protest to take place , but they clearly have to keep the King ' s peace as well . the Father of the House be correct to say that we need a function system , where application be deal with swiftly , people be not wait for year for application to be decide , and those who should not be in this country be remove . I think many of we agree with the Minister when she say that it be important that we be able to debate immigration and refugee and how we as a country support they , and that we recognise when allegation of incredibly serious sexual offence be involve that people be rightly concerned . peaceful protest play its part , but she will be conscious that the police themselves have condemn the " mindless thuggery " that we have see in Epping . also , there be report that seem quite serious about neo - nazi group and their leaflet be circulate . in order to protect peaceful protest , which many of we seek to do , we have to stop the direct targeting of individual with violence . what assessment have be make of any co - ordination of violence by group in these incident ? I say again that we absolutely believe that peaceful protest be part of our democratic process . unfortunately , as my hon . friend will know , there be always people who will seek to exploit situation , and we probably see some of that over the last few day in Epping . I say again that there be people from the local community who be express genuinely hold view , and it be important that we note that . however , I be also aware that literature be be distribute and that other group be perhaps go to epping to stir up problem . the police be aware of that , and they be look at all the information and evidence about what happen , and they will obviously keep that under review . two week ago in Epping , there be three allege sexual assault on school - age girl ; my thought be with the victim , their family and their peer . these be allegedly link to the Bell hotel , which have be stand up as an asylum hotel against all advice . since then , we have have numerous major protest involve hundred of people , injury to police officer and damage to police vehicle . People quite rightly have the right to peaceful protest , but these violent scene be not we . they be not eppe and they be not what we stand for . I want to thank Essex police for all that they be do to keep we safe in these challenging and distressing time for our town . follow the protest , we have church cancel service , business close early and local resident feel like they be barricade in their own home . the hotel be in the wrong place : it be near a school and there be inadequate safeguarding of the hotel ' s vulnerable resident . this be a crisis that be boil over , and for the sake of community safety the Home Secretary and the Government must get a grip of the situation . they must listen and act now to close this hotel immediately . will they now do that ? the hon . Gentleman ' s comment on behalf of his constituent be measure , and he be absolutely right that our first thought should be with those affect by what happen in Epping — the victim and their family . it be important for the House to note that . I also want to reiterate that this Government be commit to close all asylum hotel by the end of this Parliament . I welcome the shadow Home Secretary ' s concern about crime link to the asylum system — that be a concern hold across the House . why do the Minister think the Conservatives and Reform vote against the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which allow the tagging of asylum seeker who pose a threat to public safety ? I have absolutely no idea ; it be for the shadow Home Secretary to explain that one . clearly , I would expect all hon . and right hon . member in the House to want to do everything to keep our community safe . I look forward to the swift deportation of anybody who take advantage of our hospitality by break our law and attack woman and young girl . in July 2024 , I warn my constituent not to throw away their future , as the far - right lynch mobs threaten to spread to Gloucestershire . once again this thuggery have flare up , this time in Epping . what action be the Government take to support authority in the prosecution of those who whip up this furore , both online and in position of influence ? the hon . Gentleman may know that a great deal of work have be undertake since the disorder of last summer to ensure that intelligence be gather from the online space , as well as the offline space , and that all the authority be prepared and ready if there be any sign of disorder again . just to reiterate , all of we in this House would recognise that peaceful protest be an important part of a democratic society , but not when it cross over into the disorder and mayhem we see last year when criminal act be perpetrate by individual . I agree that it be important that we be able to debate immigration and asylum . People across the country know the consequence of the asylum system fail to protect the public , community and business — we have have experience of that in my own city . do the Minister agree that public safety must come first and that it be indefensible that the Tory party and Reform oppose measure allow the tagging of high - risk individual ? do she agree that the breadth and depth of this crisis need we all to work together to regain public confidence ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend — she put that eloquently . again , I expect that all member of this House would want to do everything to protect the member of all community in this country . the Minister say that an asylum seeker convict of an offence will not be grant asylum . do she have some special method of send they back to a country to which we can not send anyone back if they have break into our country illegally ? otherwise , what do her sanction amount to ? to the right hon . Gentleman ' s specific question , this be about not grant asylum to those who be convict of a register sexual offence , so it be not recognise that they have an asylum claim . that be the issue we be legislate for at the moment . the right hon . Gentleman and I understand that there be certain country in the world to which it be difficult to return individual — I fully appreciate that — but we be set out in legislation a clear note that asylum will not be grant to those who be convict of register sexual offence . the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , be try to out - populist the populist , and there be danger involve in that . do the Minister agree that it be common sense for individual convict of sexual crime to be bar from receive protection in the UK ? if so , why do she think the Conservatives and Reform vote against that ? again , that be a matter for each individual Opposition Member to explain to their constituent . I know that this be an issue that people care about . opposition Members will have to explain their decision to their constituent , include in Croydon . we have a responsibility to deal in the truth and to counter plainly false narrative . the Minister talk about the fact that this protest cross over into mindless thuggery . every one of we should stand up here and say that to our constituent or to anyone who get in touch . People be spread rumour that have no basis in the truth , include in my constituency , where last year a rumour go around about asylum seeker in hotel . it have absolutely no basis in the truth , but could have cause some sort of mob , like in Epping . this be dog - whistle politic . what be the Minister do to tell people that , just as not everybody in any community in our country be a rapist , not everybody in migrant hotel be a rapist ? we should do what we can to ensure that people be protect and decision be make as quickly as possible . the hon . Lady raise an important point . over the past few year , the online space in particular have be use for misinformation and downright lie . it be important that we all recognise that we should look carefully at social medium site . we should use critical thinking , as we teach our child in school . we should always ask why that piece of information have be put out and whether it be from a reliable source , and look for reliable medium source if we be seek information about what be happen — that be important . we in this House have perhaps not be as quick as we should be to recognise how social medium have move thing on in society in a way that we need to deal with . there be an enormous amount of work in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Home Office to consider what more we can do in relation to social medium and the online space . the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , have speak passionately about crime in this country — include , I dare say , some by a number of individual who enter the country on his Government ' s watch when he be a Home Office Minister . as other member have say , when opposition party take that position while vote against tag asylum seeker who be perceive to be a threat , and against bar from the country those who have be convict of sexual crime , it damage not only confidence in our community but the life chance of asylum seeker who have commit no crime and have a legitimate claim to be here . do the Minister agree ? yes . my hon . friend put it very well . within this , there be people flee persecution in other part of the world . this country , as we all know and have hear many time in the House , recognise our role in the world to offer a safe haven to such people . I fully endorse what he say . over the past year , how many gang have actually be smash ? as I understand it — obviously , I be the Policing Minister , but I will get the Minister with responsibility for immigration to write to the right hon . gentleman about this — the National Crime Agency have over 80 ongoing investigation into network , and 100 new NCA officer have be recruit and fund by the Border Security Command , take the total number of officer focus solely on this issue to 500 . when violent disorder erupt on the street of my constituency last summer , the police put themselves between two group of people who have be wind up and be look to see how much damage they could do to each other . Chief Constable Chris Noble , alongside Chief Inspectors David Barrow and Laura Davies , ensure that community come together after the event to realise that neighbour can live in peace . my constituent expect everybody who have commit sexual offence or other crime to be prosecute , but what work be the Minister do across Government to ensure that , once such event have take place , community can come together again and live in peace ? nobody want to walk around on eggshell , fearful of their neighbour . my hon . friend raise a really important point . after the disorder last summer we do see community spontaneously come together and want to say that what have happen in their local area be do not by the majority but by a very small number of people . the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government have be work with local authority on rebuild community cohesion — which for many year under the last Administration be not see as important at all — because it be so important that all part of our society feel safe and value . through community cohesion , we stop those who wish to divide and pit people against each other , and recognise the valuable role that all part of society and our community play . illegal migrant cross the channel be 24 time more likely to end up in british jail than British - bear citizen , yet this Government allow thousand of unvetted male to enter this country who will commit horrific crime like rape and murder , and there be some potential terrorist among they too . do the Minister agree that it be time to forget the silly legislation that Labour mp be bleat on about and to detain these people and deport they ? we do not want to see any of these silly tag put on their ankle ; just detain and deport they straight away . I sit on the Select Committee on Home Affairs with the hon . gentleman for a number of year and I think he attend the visit to Manston when we be both on the Committee . [ interruption . ] well , perhaps he do not , but it might have help if he have . at Manston , information and biometric be take from people who come across in small boat ; they be check against record . I wish he would have a look at what actually happen . I think the statistic he mention come from a newspaper ; I do not think it have actually be verify , although I be willing to have a look at it , but I think it be in the Sun if I recall correctly . member will be aware of the public streaming of violence and criminal activity towards property and police officer . this be the second year that this have happen over the summer period . will the Minister confirm that she be engage with other Departments on how we can review streaming activity so that it do not promote violence and criminality and replication in other location around our country ? that be a very important point and there be ongoing conversation with the Home Office and other Government Departments to ensure that it be address . that have be a problem particularly in the terrorist field , and action have be take speedily to get such posting down . I have be fob off with ridiculous non - answer to my write question on this subject and an insulting letter from the Immigration Minister , the hon . member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) , so I do not want to be promise yet another evasive letter that ignore the question . will the Minister tell I what the legal reason be that the Immigration Minister cite as justification for the Government and Serco refuse to tell mps and local people when they move migrant into our constituency and where ? the hon . Gentleman be a relatively new Member of this House , but I have be in the House a while and certainly that do not happen under the previous Administration . there be always opportunity to improve and local Members of Parliament , local council and the police be all engage when people be move into certain area of the country . I know that happen , although I be sure it could be well , but I be happy to raise this again with the Immigration Minister because I have not have sight of the letter that she send to the hon . Gentleman . the press regularly run story where economic migrant be quote describe what they believe be the benefit available to they in the UK and the work opportunity that our relatively under - regulate labour market offer . do the Minister agree it be time that we consider Labour ' s ID card plan , scrap by the Conservative - liberal Democrat coalition , and its ability to reduce the UK ' s pull factor for new migrant ? the Government have be take action over the past 12 month to deal with the issue of illegal working . there have be 10 , 031 illegal working visit , lead to 7 , 130 arrest — a rise of 48 % and 51 % respectively compare with the year before . that mark the first 12 - month period in which more than 10 , 000 visit have take place to start to tackle illegal working in this country . my constituency have a proud history of be a welcoming community . we have have an asylum hotel for two year with no problem ; the family be well integrate in the local community with many child in the local school . late last week , however , we be tell that people would be ask to move from that hotel with no notice from today , despite the fact that the hotel will still be use for asylum seeker . they do not know where they will need to move to . I have raise the issue with the Home Office and have no response , so can the Minister urgently look into it today ? do she agree that every MP with an asylum hotel in their constituency should have a dedicated Home Office contact so that we can work together to promote peace and harmonious community relation , and against disinformation and violence ? I be happy to pass on that issue to the Immigration Minister . we have hear Conservative and Reform mps decry legislation that they say be stop the problem be fix . they talk the talk , but they do not actually vote for legislation . the shadow Home Secretary , with an angry face , be go on about what be happen in hotel , but it be his Government ' s policy that set up hotel as hostel for asylum seeker . this Government have say that they will end the policy . can the Minister set out the Government ' s sensible approach — not gimmick — to end the use of hotel as hostel ? I thank my hon . friend for those comment . it might help the shadow Home Secretary if I say that the number of hotel have go down under this Labour Government . [ interruption . ] despite what the shadow Home Secretary say , the number of hotel have go down since the Government come into power . violent disorder be always wrong , but we need to recognise that it be a symptom of people ' s outrage at the current situation , and of their fear of crime — particularly sexual crime — in their community . the Minister should focus not on the tone of question in the House and what have happen in the past , but on what she will do to solve the problem . in that respect , I agree with what the Father of the House say about require a credible deterrent , so do the Minister regret cancel the Rwanda scheme ? I totally disagree with what the hon . Lady say . violent disorder be not a symptom — it be criminal . it be thuggery ; it be attack on our brave police officer . there be no reason or excuse for what happen last summer or for any violent disorder that may happen in future . it be criminal , it should be prosecute , and people should face the full consequence of the law . I thank the police for how they have deal with the violent disorder that we have see from a minority of people in recent day . I would much rather that the police be investigate the crime that be allegedly behind the incident . I also thank the Minister for show zero tolerance to the minority of people in our asylum system who break the law — it be right that we do that . she mention that the number of asylum hotel have come down . have the bill also come down ? the number of hotel have come down . the aim be to reduce the overall bill by £ 1 billion , but the number of hotel have come down since we come into power . one year on , it be quite clear that the Labour Government have not get a grip on illegal migration and criminality . there be no plan and no cap , and it would appear today that there be not even an answer or any knowledge as to whether any gang have be smash . when will the Minister put in place an effective deterrent that protect not just our border , but our citizen ? the right hon . Lady say that there be no plan . first , we be work with source and transit company to stop dangerous journey before they begin . secondly , we be step up law enforcement , with new power , more National Crime Agency officer and specialist unit in France to disrupt smuggling gang . thirdly , we be strengthen border security , with more patrol , drone and legal challenge to stop overcrowded boat . fourthly , we have secure a new return agreement with France — something that the shadow Home Secretary could not achieve — so that people arrive illegally by small boat can be send back , while also accept a matching number of eligible applicant through a safe route . finally , we be crack down on illegal working and reform the asylum system to close loophole exploit by gang and ensure fair , control migration . that look like a plan to I — that be a plan . there have be numerous report over the weekend about an alleged incident at the Metropole hotel , the asylum hotel in my constituency . the Minister will know that I have raise concern about the hotel numerous time with the Home Office . will she ensure that this incident be investigate swiftly and that I as the MP and the community get a report urgently ? absolutely — I be very happy to give that assurance . I know that my hon . friend have be raise these issue for some time , so I be happy to do that . while migrant hotel cost the british taxpayer billion , migrant be now be move into house in multiple occupation , take house from local people and cause misery for neighbour . can the right hon . Lady tell the House how many migrant have be move into hmo ? what be the cost to the british taxpayer ? what I can tell the hon . Lady be that we inherit a huge backlog of claim for asylum . one of the important part of deal with the backlog be process those claim and determine whether people have an asylum claim that can be successful ; if it be not , they should then be return . that be the whole purpose of close the hotel , as we will speed up the processing of the application . last month , the Immigration Minister could not tell I in a write answer how many illegal asylum seeker have a criminal record . we have an asylum hotel in Cheshunt in my constituency , and my constituent be understandably concerned about criminal activity and antisocial behaviour . they do not think that the Government be listen to they . when will the Minister come to this House , meet her manifesto commitment and close the asylum hotel in my constituency ? as I have say a number of time , this Government be commit to close all hotel by the end of this Parliament . few hotel be open now than when we come into power last July . the vast majority of british citizen be law - abide , and they be concerned about the impact of mass migration on their community . a deterrent would go some way towards restore trust that the british people may have in the asylum system . when will the Government implement a deterrent to send those enter the country illegally to a safe third country ? as I have just set out in great detail , we have a plan . let I say respectfully to the hon . Gentleman that the plan that the previous Government have result in four volunteer , I think , go to Rwanda . a general election be call ; the then Prime Minister decide to call a general election . why do he not let the scheme operate if it be such a success ? that be the real question . why do they go to the country if they be just about to have an enormous success with Rwanda ? the House will be aware of the serious street disturbance in my constituency last month follow the allege rape of a young 14 - year - old girl . last week , Ballymena magistrate court be inform that the chief suspect have flee back to Romania . do the Minister agree that extradition that work be an imperative , and that extradition that work expeditiously be an even great imperative ? clearly that be a live matter before the court , but I want people to be hold to account for their action . if that involve extradition , that be the right thing to do . as always , I thank the Minister for her answer . however , all too often we seem to be hear about criminal activity by immigrant and asylum seeker across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and more need to be do to address it . on behalf of my constituent , who ask I this question all the time — every weekend , to be precise — what step will the Minister take to ensure that we have a zero - tolerance policy for migrant await an asylum decision , so that if they be detain for any kind of criminal activity during that time , they will be send back to their country of origin as a matter of urgency ? as I say at the outset , whoever perpetrate a crime will be hold to account , and there will be consequence . I hope I have be clear that that include people who be make asylum application , as well as the wide general public . People have to be hold to account . Independent Water Commission before I call the Secretary of State to make his statement , I place on the record the fact that Mr Speaker and the Deputy Speakers be disappoint to see extensive coverage in the medium this morning of Ministers ' response to the Independent Water Commission , before the House have have the opportunity to consider the matter . it would be nice to think that the normal courtesy will be resume . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I have , of course , save the bulk of my response for you and the House this afternoon . with permission , I would like to update the House on the Government ' s plan to reform the water sector . the water industry be clearly fail . our river , lake and sea be pollute with record level of sewage , and water pipe have be leave to crumble into disrepair . I share customer ' fury at rise bill . right now , hosepipe ban be in place across the country because not a single new reservoir have be build in over 30 year , and the lack of water infrastructure be block economic growth . water company have be allow to profit at the expense of the british people when they should have be invest to fix our break water pipe . they get away with this because of a broken regulatory system that have fail both customer and the environment . the public express their fury in last year ' s general election and vote for change . that change will now come . in just one year , we have put in place the building block for change . first , we restore accountability by give the regulator more tooth and introduce a ban on unfair bonus , severe and automatic penalty for break the law , and jail sentence for the most serious offence . secondly , we be invest £ 104 billion of private sector funding to rebuild the water network , upgrade crumble pipe , repair leak , build new sewage treatment work and dig out new reservoir . it be the single big investment in the history of the water sector , and it allow I to make a new commitment to the country : this Government will cut water company ' sewage pollution in half by the end of the decade . that be the most ambitious commitment ever make by any Government about water pollution , and it be just the start . over a decade of national renewal , we will restore our river , lake and sea to good health . the third building block for change be today ' s final report from Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s Independent Water Commission . I express my thank to Sir Jon , his official , and all those who have contribute to this outstanding piece of work . I agree with Sir Jon that water regulation have be too weak , too complex , and ineffective . have four separate regulator with overlap and conflict remit have fail both customer and the environment . Ofwat have fail to protect customer from water company ' mismanagement of their hard - earn money , and it have fail to protect our waterway from record level of pollution . today , I can announce that this Labour Government will abolish Ofwat . we will bring water function from four different regulator into one — a single powerful super - regulator responsible for the entire water sector , with the tooth it need to enforce the high standard that the public rightly demand . the new regulator will stand firmly on the side of customer , investor and the environment and prevent the abuse of the past . for customer , it will oversee investment and upgrade work , so that hard - work british family be never again hit by the shocking bill hike that we see last year as customer be leave to pay the price of failure by the previous Government . for investor , it will provide the clarity and direction require for a strong partnership between Government , the sector and investor to attract billion of pound of new funding . for the environment , it will reduce all form of pollution to clean up our river , lake and sea for good . we will work closely with the Welsh Government to devolve the economic regulation of water to Wales . I will publish a White Paper this autumn give the Government ' s full response to the Independent Water Commission ' s final report and launch a consultation on it . follow that , I will bring forward a new water reform Bill early in the lifetime of this Parliament . Ofwat will remain in place during the transition to the new regulator , and I will ensure that it provide the right leadership to oversee the current price review and investment plan during that time . to provide clarity during this period , I will issue an interim strategic policy statement to Ofwat and give ministerial direction to the Environment Agency set out our expectation and requirement . we will publish a transition plan as part of our full Government response in the autumn . today , we be immediately take forward a number of Sir Jon ' s recommendation . first , we will establish a new statutory water ombudsman — a single , free service to help customer resolve complaint such as incorrect bill , leak pipe or water supply failure . the new ombudsman will have the legal power to protect customer and will bring the water dispute resolution process in line with other utility , such as energy . it be part of the Government ' s ambition to put customer at the heart of water regulation . secondly , we will end the era of water company mark their own homework . we will end operator self - monitoring and transition to open monitoring to increase transparency and help restore public trust . water company be already require to publish datum on some sewage spill within one hour . we will roll out real - time monitoring across the wastewater system , and all this datum will be make publicly available online . that will ensure that the regulator and , importantly , the public have the power to hold water company fully accountable . thirdly , we commit to include a regional element within the new regulator to ensure great local involvement in water planning . by move to a catchment - base model for water system planning , we can tackle all source of pollution enter waterway , so that they can be clean up more effectively and more quickly . this will ensure — for the first time — that water infrastructure investment plan align with spatial planning to support fast regional economic growth . the lack of water infrastructure that hold back development around Cambridge and Oxford for so long will not happen again . the new regulatory framework will recognise the risk investor take and , if they meet their obligation , they will see a fair , stable return on their investment . just last week , I sign the Government ' s new water skill pledge to make sure that the sector have the skill and workforce it need to deliver this vast investment . this Labour Government be elect to clean up water pollution and ensure that unacceptable bill hike can never happen again . we now have all the building block in place to make that happen . we be establish a new partnership base on effective regulation , where water company , investor , community and the Government will work together to clean up our river , lake and sea for good . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . I shall be respond on behalf of the shadow Secretary of State while she meet farmer at the Royal Welsh Show . let I begin by recognise the scale and seriousness of the work undertake by Sir Jon Cunliffe and his team . the review contain 460 page and 88 recommendation , and represent one of the most detailed examination of the water sector since privatisation . indeed , there be much in it that we cautiously welcome , include the merger of the regulator . as we examine the recommendation in more detail , we stand ready to support serious reform if it be do properly . however , I be afraid that what we have see and hear from the Secretary of State over the past year have not match the seriousness of Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s work , nor have it go anywhere near the root - and - branch radical reform that he sell to voter before the election . I therefore seek clarity from he on the follow point . first , over the weekend the Secretary of State announce that Labour would cut sewage spill by 50 % by 2030 , but what he do not mention be the fact that plan submit under the last Conservative Government be already set to cut sewage spill by even more than that amount . the Times report yesterday that the Secretary of State ' s new pledge would actually see an additional 20 , 000 discharge of sewage in our river , compare with exist plan . can the Secretary of State explain why , after 88 recommendation and a year - long review of the sector , he have water down sewage reduction target rather than massively ramp they up ? secondly , the Secretary of State take to the airwave at the weekend tell the public that we need to go back to the " purity " of our water that we all remember , but the uncomfortable truth for which Labour still refuse to take responsibility be that when it leave office in 2010 , just 7 % of storm overflow be monitor . let I repeat that : under Blair and Brown , 93 % of sewage discharge be happen with no oversight and no accountability whatsoever . the only reason we can talk tough today be the fact that the last government push monitor to 100 % in 2023 . may I therefore ask the Secretary of State to clarify his statement ? thirdly , the Secretary of State tell the public that he have secure £ 104 billion of investment from the water sector to fund these reduction , but what he do not mention be that £ 93 billion of that investment plan have already be submit by water company in October 2023 , nine month before he be even in office . I would know that because I be the Minister at the time , and I have here the letter show that he have nothing to do with it . will he comment on that ? fourthly , the Secretary of State champion the 81 criminal investigation of water company that have take place since the election and his ban on water company boss ' bonus , but what he do not explain be that these criminal investigation be a direct result of the Conservatives ' policy of quadruple the number of water company inspection , and that it be our party that launch the ban on boss ' bonus . this be all available for the public to see and to fact - check for themselves , as it be a matter of public record . what all this show be that , for all their bluster and promise of radical change , the Government have make almost no new progress on the issue over the past year . they have sit on their hand for more than a year wait for the review . it be no wonder that the campaigner whom the Secretary of State so shamelessly use for vote in the run - up to the last general election be now , today , call for his resignation . we on this side of the House stand ready to work with the Government on serious reform . we will support any action that genuinely hold water company to account , deliver clean water and protect the public from pay the price of corporate failure . however , we will not stand by while the Secretary of State rewrite history , water down ambition , and backtrack on the promise that he make to the public . I thank the hon . Gentleman — I think — for his comment , but it be disappointing that the shadow Secretary of State do not consider a matter of this urgency to be important enough for she to show up in the Chamber this afternoon . I be afraid that that really do reflect the importance that their party ascribe to this issue during the 14 year in which it be in power . I enjoy listen to the hon . Gentleman , but I be afraid that he sound a little delusional this afternoon . if he really think that the Conservatives do so well on sewage , I wonder why he think sewage pollution in our waterway increase every single year during their 14 year in charge . the fact be that the Conservatives make the situation far worse , because they instruct the regulator to apply a light touch when they should have tell it to get a grip . they strip out resource from the regulator , reduce its resource by 50 % at one point , so it be less able to enforce against sewage pollution . they allow million of pound , if not billion , to be divert away from investment and to be use instead for unjustified bonus and dividend for water company . it be this Government who have secure £ 104 billion of investment to upgrade our water system . it be this Government who have ban the unfair bonus that water boss be take . it be this Government who be introduce monitoring of all sewage outlet . and it be this Government who be go to clean up our river , lake and sea , where the previous Government fail abysmally . my constituent will be very pleased with what the Government have announce today , follow 14 year of see increase in the dumping of sewage on the beach , and in the river , in my constituency . I could not help but notice that yesterday the leader of Reform , in his answer to every question , say either " I don ' t know " or " I ' ve no idea . " of course , he be not here either , but he do say that his answer to this problem be to increase payment to the shareholder and to do absolutely nothing to deal with the problem in our water industry . will my right hon . friend confirm that , during his time as Secretary of State , he will make it his priority to ensure that we reduce the sewage be dump in our river , on our beach and in our lake ? I be , of course , on the television show in question with the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . I think he tell we six time that he have no idea — well , that much we know . it be this Government who have a plan to clean up our waterway . we have put in place the building block for change , and that allow I to stand before this House and commit that by 2030 we will reduce sewage pollution from water company by 50 % as we move towards a decade of national renewal in order to clean up our waterway for good . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement , and Sir Jon Cunliffe for his report and for his work in produce it . the Liberal Democrats have long argue for the abolition of Ofwat , and for the creation of a new , consolidated and powerful regulator . in fact , we put it to the Public Bill Committee and it be support by neither the Labour party nor the Conservative party , but today ' s proposal seem to include do just that , so we strongly welcome the statement . it be a reminder to the wonderful volunteer and water campaigner across the country that their work be absolutely worth while and have make a huge difference . my message to they be : thank you so much and keep go , because we still do not know the detail and the nature of the new regulator , and we still see no sign in the report of any plan to tackle the toxic nature of the water industry ' s ownership structure . why be there no plan to change the structure of the industry itself ? even the good regulator in the world will fail if water company be still own by those who care nothing for the quality of the lake , river and sea , and who care only about make as much profit as possible in return for very little investment . be it really acceptable to ask bill payer for a 30 % rise when there be no guarantee that the water company will not be siphon off huge chunk of that money in dividend , pay rise or bonus ? why be there nothing in the statement that will truly empower the volunteer , citizen scientist and water campaigner I just mention ? why be we not give place on water company board to the like of the Eden Rivers Trust , the South Lakes Rivers Trust , Save Windermere , the Clean River Kent Campaign , Surfers Against Sewage and Windrush Against Sewage Pollution , know as WASP ? why be there no mention of monitor the volume of sewage spill as well as the number of incidence , and no mention of include legally bind pollution reduction target ? although the statement be welcome and we rightly celebrate the Liberal Democrat campaign win that it be full of , our job as a constructive and effective opposition be to scrutinise the detail and to carry on campaign to clean up our waterway and our water industry too . that be exactly what we shall do . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I echo and endorse his comment about the volunteer and citizen scientist who carry out fantastic work to ensure that this issue remain where it need to be , which be right at the top of the political agenda . I hope that they will join we in welcome Sir Jon ' s report . there will be a White Paper and a consultation alongside it . we will launch the White Paper in the autumn , give detailed Government response to the 450 - page report . with 88 recommendation , there be a lot to go through , but the report include proposal about ownership , which will be consult on as well . volunteer and citizen scientist will be able to engage for the first time through the propose regional structure . we accept that proposal in principle , and the detail of it will be work through during the consultation . for the first time , there will be engagement on the catchment of entire river system , and citizen , local authority and business will all have a voice in that , as will member of the farming community operate within those catchment . I believe that by reduce the number of spill we will also reduce the volume of spill . the hon . Gentleman will be able to monitor that , and he will be able to hold I to account , as will the House and the public , as we work towards the target that I have outline for reduce sewage spill from water company by 50 % by 2030 . he of course be lucky enough to represent one of the most beautiful part of the country , include Windermere , and we be work with United Utilities to remove all source of pollution from that beautiful , iconic lake , so that what become a story of decline can become a visible symbol of renewal with this Government . rise — order . it be apparent that a very considerable number of Back - Bench Members wish to participate in this statement . there be two further statement to follow before we come to the main business of the day , which be also very important , so I urge colleague on both side of the House to ask brief question and not make statement . resident in Peterborough and across anglian Water ' s catchment area will welcome the statement and the bold action take . they know all too well that the water system be break . one of the issue we on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee have look at be the need for water infrastructure . can my right hon . friend confirm that the drive and determination he have show today to fix the water system will also drive forward the Fens reservoir and the infrastructure we need in the east of England ? after a generation of delay on reservoir , we now have the opportunity to succeed . can he tell we that this will stay on track , and we will get the job and the water resource we need in the east ? my hon . friend make a very important point . we be currently go through a dry spell and see hosepipe ban in many part of the country , yet in the winter it rain very heavily . the reason we have hosepipe ban be that we do not have the reservoir to catch the rain when it fall and then use it in dry period , which be because we have not build a new reservoir for 30 year . that change now : these plan include the intention to build nine new reservoir . to speed up the planning process , I as the Secretary of State be take control of consent for reservoir , so that they can be approve much fast and go ahead to provide the country with the clean drinking water we need . the Environment Agency estimate that there be 4 million regular and occasional angler throughout the United Kingdom , with 1 . 2 million get fishing licence last year . angle across the country be worth about £ 3 billion to the economy and it be the favourite pastime in this country , as the Secretary of State will know . will he give an undertaking to all the angler throughout this country that they will be fully engage by the new regulator ? the right hon . Gentleman make a very important point . angler be quite rightly furious about the level of pollution , which be destroy fish and other life in our river , but also about the impact of abstraction , particularly from chalk stream , so the new regulator will be engage with they . Sir Jon have propose new mechanism for volunteer and campaigner to engage with the system that be not available previously . we will consult on those in the autumn , and move ahead with legislation follow that . I really welcome the water commission . the EFRA Committee have have each of the water boss in , one by one , and each struggle to explain why their industry prioritise bonus over fix broken pipe . I therefore really welcome the action that the Government have take to ban bonus , start with the bonus for the Southern Water boss , Lawrence Gosden . we be , however , disgusted to hear last week that he plan to take a doubling in his salary , an additional £ 690 , 000 , after oversee major water outage , flood in Hastings town centre and massive sewage dumping . do the Secretary of State agree that that be a slap in the face to my constituent , and that Lawrence Gosden should think very seriously about whether he take that salary increase ? my hon . friend , who be such a strong campaigner on the water sector , make a very important point , which she put very well . I consider that pay rise to be outrageous , as do she . it turn out that he be receive that pay increase under a scheme that be permit by the regulator under the regime that the Conservatives have in place , and the payment he be get this year relate to the last year of the Conservative Government . we have change the law so that no similar payment can be make in future . South East Water ' s Broad Oak reservoir in Canterbury , which will also serve your constituency , Mr Deputy Speaker , be not due to open until 2033 . will my beleaguered resident and business in Canterbury and part of Whitstable have to put up with the drought and the leak — in a heatwave , which have be unbearable — for another eight year ? the hon . Lady be quite right to point to the problem that we be experience because of the lack of reservoir . as I say early , we be speed up the consenting and the building of new reservoir , so we have the mean to catch the rain when it be fall and can use it during dry period . she refer to leak . the investment that we have secure will reduce leak from water pipe , so we can help to conserve water for the purpose for which it be intend . I welcome today ' s statement . I be incredibly excited , not least because we have the beautiful River Trent , which separate my constituency from Staffordshire . it be home to the Staffordshire Swooshers , who have member from Derbyshire . they frequently have to avoid a " Trent tan " , but they extol the virtue of open water swimming . do the Secretary of State agree that by have clean water , we can encourage more great exercise to make the country healthy and improve wellbee ? a Trent tan be a very alarming and graphic image , but it capture what have go wrong with our water sector for so long . the change that we be announce today will clean up our waterway across the country so that wild swimmer , as well as many other people who like to enjoy our precious river , lake and sea , can get on and enjoy they without the kind of concern she allude to . in my constituency last year there be 2 , 036 sewage spill , last for a total of 28 , 360 hour . however , contrary to the Secretary of State ' s early assertion , we do not know the volume of that dumping because it be not monitor . what step be the Government take to impose target to reduce both the duration and the volume of individual spill ? we be increase monitoring to 100 % of all outlet . I note that representative from the conservative party will often try to take the credit for increase monitoring . that be a good thing to have do , but what be not so good be to use it just to wave hello to the sewage as it float on by and do nothing about reduce it . I be afraid that the report feel like a miss opportunity for the Government to show the public whose side they be on . it entrench a privatised model that have already fail economically , environmentally and democratically . with 20 % to 50 % of bill go on service debt , why be public ownership — if it be good enough for rail , GB Energy and renewable — not good enough for water ? we have to take a rational , not ideological , approach to tackle this problem . nationalise the water company would cost £ 100 billion . those be not figure , as I have see my hon . friend claim , from the water company ; they be provide by official in my Department under the influence of nobody externally . to pay that money — £ 100 billion — we would have to take it away from public service , such as the national health service and education , to hand it to the owner of the company that have be pollute our waterway . that make no sense to I and it make no sense to the public . frankly , I be surprised that it make any sense to he . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement that he be go to merge all four water regulator into one . however , I offer a slight note of caution : it be no good move the deckchair around the deck unless the situation have be improve . when will he produce the White Paper and what tooth will he give this single new super - regulator ? I welcome the hon . member ' s support in principle for Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s proposal , which I have accept , to merge the four regulator ’ water function into one single super - regulator . I will publish the White Paper contain the Government ' s full response during the autumn . if the hon . member would like to peruse the 450 - page document that Sir Jon have provide , he will find 88 separate recommendation in it , many of which will significantly strengthen regulation so that the new regulator can enforce much more harshly against the kind of abuse that water company get away with in the past . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee have hear unbelievable statement from 10 major water company . we also take a long , hard look at Ofwat , as Sir Jon Cunliffe do , and find a regulator that be too cosy in deal with water company and too bureaucratic in deal with customer . a weak regulator and fragmented power have let the public down for far too long . do the Secretary of State agree that while the Conservatives have fail and Reform and the Greens make unachievable , unfunded promise , it be this Labour Government who will call time on failure and protect bill payer ? my hon . friend make a very good point . I believe that one of the reason why the relationship between Ofwat and the water company become far too cosy be the instruction that Ofwat receive from Ministers in the previous Government to apply only light - touch regulation , when what be need be a firm grip on what be go on . it be astonishing that the Conservatives think it be a good idea to strip out resource and tell the regulator to go soft on the company give the abuse that be take place . that have end now , and we be move to a model of effective regulation that will protect bill payer and clean up our river . in express his opposition to the nationalisation of water just yesterday , the Secretary of State do not mention the fact that , under Scottish Water , bill in Scotland be £ 113 cheap , or the fact that 97 % of Scotland ' s bathing water meet the quality standard expect . no — what he say of Scottish Water be that " pollution in river in Scotland be bad than in England . " I have consult the House of Commons Library and just 14 % of river in England meet the quality standard expect , whereas 58 . 2 % of Scotland ' s do . trust in politics matter , so he will correct the record today , win ' t he ? as the right hon . member correctly point out , Scotland have a nationalise water company — under the control of the SNP Government , of course — and water pollution be bad than in England as a result . I be more than happy to write to he to give he the fact so that he can come back and correct the record in due course . yesterday I have a lovely swim in the North sea off Bamburgh castle , and I would like to thank the Safer Seas and Rivers Service for tell I which beach to avoid due to sewage spill by Northumbrian Water . not all my constituent swim , but they all tell I that the current situation be disgraceful . they will not be read a 500 - page report , so could the Secretary of State explain to they whether it be : a ) their fault for not accept high bill , as Tory former Ministers and Water UK say ; b ) the water company ' fault for extract so much more value — in the shape of dividend and bonus payment and load the company with debt — than they put into they ; or c ) because water be a natural monopoly and incredibly difficult to regulate effectively in the private sector ? or be it both b ) and c ) ? I be slightly confuse by that question , if I be honest . my hon . friend be very brave to go swim in the North sea , but I know that many people enjoy that . the change that we be make will bring about effective regulation and appropriate level of investment and protect customer from the shocking bill hike that we see last year , which be the direct result of 14 year of failure by the Conservative Government . I be sure my hon . friend ' s constituent will welcome that . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . Environment Agency datum show a 60 % increase in serious pollution incident last year , so the target of halve spill over five year would still mean nearly a quarter of a million sewage spill happen annually by 2030 . when we drink a glass of water , we measure it by how much we drink , not the time it take to drink . to make a real difference to place like Chichester harbour and the River Lavant in my constituency , will the Government look at the volume rather than the hour of spill happen ? the target for reduction use as its baseline the 2024 figure , not the 2021 figure use by the previous Government , recognise the extent to which sewage pollution increase between ' 21 and ' 24 . I want to recognise the scale of the problem and then work to solve it from that point . we have announce the most ambitious target for sewage pollution reduction of any Government ever , and that be not the end of our ambition ; there will be further to go until we restore all our waterway , include the beautiful Chichester harbour , back to purity . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and the tough action he have announce . resident in my community have suffer appal problem with sewage pollution in the Thames , the Kennet and many other waterway , as well as hour - long interruption to supply . to make matter bad , resident have also suffer subsidence from a water leak . how will the new ombudsman help I and my resident to tackle these very serious problem ? the new ombudsman will have statutory power to provide independent and free support to customer experience the kind of failure that my hon . friend describe ; there be many other , of course . previously , water be one of the only utility that do not have that resource available , but it will do from now on . we have also take step and introduce measure to increase compensation for people who have experience failure by their water company , with compensation at least double and in some case increase tenfold . the quality of a river be about not just the water that go into it , but the maintenance of the river itself . my constituent have be fail over and over again by the Environment Agency in the maintenance of our waterway . give the Secretary of State ' s enthusiasm for break apart quango , will he consider bring power away from the ea so that we can manage our river properly and effectively ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point , but I gently remind he that it be his Government who cut resource to the Environment Agency by 50 % , which may well have have something to do with the fact that people be no long there to enforce against the kind of failing he talk about . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . my constituent will be relieve as , after 14 year of Tory failure and inaction , water pollution from toxic sewage discharge be a persistent problem in Battersea , and all the while their bill be be hike . I welcome the Government ' s take the necessary step and introduce reform of the water sector and protect my constituent . will he say a little more about when he intend to bring forward legislation ? I be sure he agree that he be take long overdue action . I know Battersea very well — it be a beautiful area — and I be aware of the problem with pollution . of course , she know all too well the concern of her resident about escalate bill as a result of the failure of the previous Government to get a grip on the water sector . we will be publish the White Paper and launch the consultation this autumn , which will be follow by legislation in the first half of this Parliament . my constituent have face an increase in their water bill without any improvement in the dumping of sewage in their river and brook or upgrade in their infrastructure . what assurance can the Government provide that those increase will not end up in the pocket of water company boss ? I hope that the hon . Member will be reassure by the fact that I have ringfence customer ' money so that it can no long be divert for payment of bonus and dividend , as be commonplace under the previous Government . it will be spend only on what it be intend for , which be invest in well water infrastructure . if that do not happen , it will be refund to customer . More than 60 year 4 pupil from Walter Evans primary school in Derby write to I and the Secretary of State worry about sewage dumping and plastic pollution in our river . I thank the Secretary of State for his clear commitment that the Government will halve pollution in our river by 2030 . do he agree that have the Conservatives take action of that kind when they come to power 14 year ago , my nine - year - old constituent would have know clean river all their life ? I pay tribute to the young people of my hon . friend ' s constituency . young people famously care about the environment , and they be devastate to see the scale of pollution in our waterway that she describe . we have take all these step and put in place the building block for change within a year of win the general election . the previous Government have 14 year . they could have do exactly the same thing in any one of those 14 year , but , as be show by the absence of the shadow Secretary of State , they just do not care enough . this government - commission review look at how to tinker with the Conservatives ' fail privatised monopoly system , but the truth be that it be a moribund model that have result in billion be pay out to shareholder and billion in debt be load up , and in crucial infrastructure be neglect , mean that sewage be regularly pump into our river and sea . do the Secretary of State accept that the cost of that failure must be part of the calculation of the cost of bring water into public hand , where it belong , and that figure like £ 100 billion be grossly inflate by those who do not think the water industry should pay for its greed and terrible mismanagement of our water system ? I be afraid that the Green party ' s proposal would mean pay £ 100 billion of taxpayer ' money to the owner of the water company . that money would have to be take away from the national health service . it would take year to unpick the current ownership model , during which time pollution in our river would get much bad , not well . we know it do not work , and we have only to look north of the border to see it ; under the nationalise model in Scotland , pollution be bad , not well . the hon . Member be talk about cut the national health service , give £ 100 billion to the owner of the current water company and make pollution far bad . that do not sound very green to I . action to tackle the water company ' failure on long - stand systemic problem be much need in my constituency , where I have be work with resident in Brownsover who have face repeat burst pipe , with some family force to move out multiple time and not receive the proper value of damaged property . Severn Trent have now give a timetable for action on the infrastructure . I welcome the introduction of a new statutory water ombudsman to put the public , as the Secretary of State say , at the heart of water regulation . do he agree that where the Conservatives fail the british consumer , this Labour Government will protect they and put people before profit ? my hon . friend be a vocal champion for his constituent . he be quite right to demand more compensation when outage happen , and an ombudsman . that be what the Government will provide , so that we can give well support to customer who be let down by the water company . we be on the side of bill payer and the environment ; the previous Government be on the side of neither . between 2018 and 2022 , untreated sewage be release just over 58 , 000 time from scottish sewer overflow , and more than half of wild swimming spot in Scotland contain unsafe level of sewage , so whatever model the Government decide to adopt for the regulation of the water industry in England , will the Secretary of State assure I that they will not follow the Scottish Government ' s fail model ? I completely agree with the hon . member , who accurately point to the failure of both the SNP Government in Scotland and the nationalise model , which do not fix the problem . it be correct to analyse the failure of the regulator and to seek to replace they , but I rather think the Secretary of State , or one of his successor , will be come back to discuss ownership structure . after all , under Yorkshire Water — the first to pioneer hosepipe ban this year — the pipe be leak like a Tetley teabag , with more than 95 billion litre of water leak in the last year alone . what do he envisage , if the new regulatory system fail and the ownership structure continue to produce the kind of problem we have see up and down the country ? will he have reserve power to take action against the owner of the company themselves , probably to remove they ? there be a system in place for when licence be breach ; it be call special administration . the reason we be strengthen regulation and change the regulator be so that we can prevent such failure . the £ 104 billion that we secure at the end of last year will help to upgrade pipe , so that we can reduce the amount of water leak out of the system , and pay to build and dig out the new reservoir to catch the rain , so that there be a supply of water in the dry period . I understand the point the Secretary of State make about the level of pollution and damage to our natural world and environment by the water industry over the past 30 year , and I understand the need for regulation , but do he not understand that he have not deal with the fundamental problem ? in the future , private enterprise be still go to be make money out of a public water supply . would it not be well to bring it into public ownership and set a share price base on the cost of pollution and on the exorbitant executive pay and bonus , so that the public as a whole can control their water supply and no long be leave to the vagary of the private sector , with all the devastation and damage it have cause over the past 30 year ? this government be go to do what work , rather than what be ideologically correct . we be not go to strip £ 100 billion out of public service like the national health service to give it to the owner of the water company who have pollute our waterway ; we be not go to wait year to get investment in while pollution in our waterway get even bad ; and we be not go to let the pipe deteriorate to such an extent that bill payer be hit with even high bill in the future . I be go to act to deliver we low bill and clean water in the fast way possible . what have happen to our waterway be a national disgrace . the state in which the Conservatives leave our river , our lake and the sea around Britain epitomise what they do to public service in general . do my right hon . friend agree that what have be lack over the past 35 year of privatisation be a proper consumer representative to protect customer , and will he give a guarantee that that will be at front and centre of the new regulator ? my hon . friend make an important point . in Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s final report today , he make recommendation for how customer can be put at the heart of the new model . there be several recommendation ; I will not go through all of they , but one be to set up new regional entity , where customer will have direct representation in take decision about how water infrastructure investment will be spend to tackle the priority in their own area . my constituent campaigner at SafeAvon and Tewkesbury Friends of the Earth will be delighted to see that , at length , the Government have implement a core liberal Democrat manifesto pledge : the abolition of Ofwat . will the Secretary of State now go far and implement a second pledge to put those campaigner on the board of Severn Trent so that they can hold the water company to account , and continue to show my constituent that Liberal Democrat pressure pay off ? I welcome the Liberal Democrats ’ conversion ; when they be in government , and when the Water Minister be indeed a liberal Democrat , they commission a report that find there be no need to change the model of regulation . many people will find it incredible that Cunliffe be not even allow to look at public ownership . I also say mildly to the Secretary of State that the £ 100 billion he cite have largely be refute by independent body and economist . way back in 2014 , I raise the example of Northumbrian Water and its use of various complicated device for tax avoidance . that become endemic within the industry . can we have a report on the water company ' role in tax avoidance on a massive scale , so that we can then look at what further action could be take against they ? I agree with the right hon . member on one point — that we should be crack down on tax avoidance ; it be always worth look into that . on his early point , I be much more interested in the purity of our water than the purity of our ideology . the figure of £ 100 billion as the cost of buy out the water company if any Government want to nationalise they be provide by official in my Department with no external influence on they . this country can not afford it , and we also can not afford the worsening of sewage in our waterway during the year it would take to unpick the current model of ownership . the Minister say he want nine more reservoir , but can he say how many of that number be already under construction or in the planning process , when we can expect to see they and who will pay ? also , be it his view that Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s predict uplift of more than 30 % in real term for water bill payer will be cover the cost ? I would be more than happy to write to the right hon . member with the detail he be ask for , but as I have say early , we be also speed up the planning process and treat reservoir as nationally significant infrastructure , mean that I , as the Secretary of State , will take the consent decision so that we can do this in month rather than the year or even decade it have be take up till now . the village of Upper Tean frequently suffer flooding and sewage outflow , and one reason be that the antiquated main water infrastructure can not adequately cope with the increase amount of new housing development , even when the developer meet all the require mitigation . recommendation 3 in the report state : " a comprehensive system planning framework should be introduce " . the report also state : " plan should consider the region or nation ' s spatial development priority , particularly those which be likely to have a significant impact on the water system , such as housing development " . do the Minister agree that , give the Government ' s plan to build 1 . 5 million home , it be vital that privatised water company ensure that they can adequately meet system demand without sewage dumping , and that they prioritise do so over profiteer ? my hon . friend make an important point , because of course water infrastructure be critical for housing development , economic development and economic growth in every single region of the country . today I have accept in principle one of Sir Jon ' s recommendation that will allow we for the first time to align water infrastructure investment and spatial planning , so that those home and factory can be build fast for the benefit of local people . I very much welcome the proposal . today ' s announcement be a step forward in tackle the sewage crisis , but of course the detail will be in the delivery . that be important , especially as the River Ver , a precious chalk stream in my constituency , have receive nearly 5 , 000 hour of sewage in the last year — some of that be 3 , 000 hour non - stop . we do not know the volume , but we know it be terrible . will the Secretary of State meet I to see how the proposal can help to prioritise the desperately need upgrade of the Markyate sewage work ? I know the River Ver very well because I use to walk over a bridge across it every day on my way to school while I be grow up . I would be very happy to make sure that the hon . Member have an appropriate meeting with a Minister to discuss her concern . I be pleased to see today ' s report . I believe it have a picture of the Bingley five rise lock in my constituency on the front cover , so I thank the Minister for that . the creaking and leak water infrastructure , the current drought restriction and the dumping of sewage in our river , include the Aire and the Wharfe , be evidence of a fail industry and of the failure of previous Tory Water Ministers , one of whom be sit on the Opposition Front Bench . I welcome today ' s report and also give credit to campaign group like the Ilkley Clean River Group and the people ' s water commission . it be right that the Secretary of State have say that he will abolish Ofwat and strengthen oversight and regulation , but Yorkshire Water have a labyrinth of hold company that have build up debt , take out dividend and interest payment , put up customer bill and fail to invest in upgrade . do the Secretary of State agree that it be time for radical action , not only to merge the regulator but to restructure fail company like Yorkshire Water ? I can not take credit for the picture — that be Sir Jon — but I can join my hon . friend in credit the campaign group who have do such a fantastic job at keep this issue at the top of the political agenda . Sir Jon make proposal in his report about those labyrinthine structure that she be talk about . we need clarity and transparency , and that be what we will now work towards . between 2001 and 2023 , there be over 4 , 600 incident of sewage overflow in Dewsbury and Batley , amount to over 28 , 000 hour . bill for my constituent and Yorkshire Water customer have go up by 40 % in the last five year and by nearly 30 % in the last 12 month . some £ 84 billion have be take in dividend by all the water company in the UK , with £ 74 billion of that saddle on to the company themselves . what step be the Secretary of State take to reduce the bill of my constituent and resident of the whole United Kingdom , and what step will he take to claw back that £ 84 billion so it can be invest to fix the pipe ? I be grateful to the hon . member for make that important point . his constituent , just like people right across the country , be last year force to pay the price of 14 year of conservative failure , because the Conservatives allow the company to pay out million in dividend and bonus when that money should have be invest in upgrade infrastructure . I have ringfence customer ' money so that it will now only be spend on the purpose for which it be intend ; otherwise , it will be return to customer . on Crooked Bridge Road in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , it have take the county council far too long to accept responsibility for faulty pipe . the buck have be pass between the council and Severn Trent , and the investigative work will not even start till 1 August . will the commission consider intervene in case where the buck be repeatedly pass back and forth in order to ensure that urgent work can get under way ? my hon . friend make an important point : buck - passing should not be allow to continue . we be move to new regional structure that will bring together the regulator , customer , advocacy group , business and local authority — to a place where those kind of issue can be resolve . we welcome the Government ' s commitment to cut water bill by 50 % in the next three year . however , give the stark increase that consumer have pay because of fail water company finance , this commitment will not touch the side , especially for the most vulnerable customer . will the Secretary of State do what Conservative Ministers fail to do : commit to implement a single social tariff for water bill to help eliminate water poverty ? of course , social tariff already exist within the individual water company — Sir Jon have make recommendation about that . we will consult on that later in the year and then take decision as we bring forward legislation in the new year . it be a shame that no one be here from the Reform party to explain its proposal for the water company ; its member might have manage to be more eloquent than their leader be on tv yesterday . reform ' s unfunded spending commitment would send mortgage through the roof and take money away from the NHS , school , police and our armed force . will the Secretary of State tell we how much he think Reform ' s proposal would cost , and comment on whether he think Reform have a clue about this policy area as its member can not even be bother to be in the Chamber ? I agree with my hon . friend ; it be a shame that no Reform Members have turn up , although perhaps it be not surprising because they do not bother mention this issue in their manifesto either . we do hear at the weekend that their leader , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , want to hand £ 50 billion of taxpayer ' money to the owner of water company . if we add that to its exist £ 80 billion of unfunded commitment , it come to £ 130 billion . by my reckoning , that be almost double the amount that Liz Truss bet and lose on the economy when she crash it and send mortgage , price and rent skyrocket . reform want to double down on the bad bet . I be genuinely all ear for any practical step that can be take to build on the Environment Act 2021 to clean up our waterway , but may I pick up the Secretary of State ' s comment on the role , as he put it , of citizen scientist and local community ? in my constituency , water hero like Doug Kennedy , who I join in Nether Winchendon test the River Thame a few week ago , have decade of real local knowledge on our waterway , as do the volunteer of the River Thame Conservation Trust . that powerhouse of local knowledge will be replicate up and down the country . rather than just involve they as consultee , will the Secretary of State reflect on how they can get properly lock into local solution to clean up our waterway ? I support what the hon . Gentleman say about the Environment Act , which be a worthwhile piece of legislation pass by the previous Government . I also support what he say about ensure that people have more involvement at community level . I will certainly take that on board as we work through the consultation . my constituent want to know that their drinking water be safe and that waterway such as the River Trent be clean and look after . I welcome all the Secretary of State ' s commitment on the new regulatory body , but he will know that the power of a regulator be not just in its power , but in its ability to enforce they . will the regulator have the resource to enforce the new rule that he propose ? it need to be more than the sum of the part of its predecessor , which fail , as so many of my constituent have see . I thank my hon . friend for important question . we have already introduce the " polluter pay " principle , so where there be successful prosecution and enforcement action against water company , they pay the price for that enforcement . that fund the additional resource to allow further investigation — and , if necessary , prosecution — to go ahead . what a contrast with the previous Government , who slash those resource in half . from Saturday night to Monday morning , a main burst on Richmond Hill in my constituency go unattended , result in resident be leave without gas supply as water leak into the gas pipeline . burst - pipe sewage - dumping follow storm overflow have now become customary . last year alone , 119 hour ' worth of sewage be discharge into river and waterway in my constituency . Thames Water have be allow to get away with such negligent and environmentally hazardous practice for far too long while Ofwat have stand by and watch . early this year , a freedom of information request uncover that Ofwat have not recoup a single penny from the financial sanction it have place on Thames Water . now that the Government have finally realise that Ofwat must be replace , will the Minister set out a timeline for the implementation of the review ' s recommendation of a new regulator ? I agree with much of what the hon . Lady say . her constituent be experience what constituent across the country be experience . it be not acceptable and it will not continue . we will publish the White Paper in the autumn , with a consultation alongside it , and we intend to move to legislation during the first half of this Parliament . clean up our river , lake and sea could not be more important . have serve on the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill Committee , I be glad that our Government have move so quickly to begin that vital work . I welcome the further measure announce today . will my right hon . friend confirm that he will bring in the next change as quickly as possible ? I agree : it be important that these change be bring in as quickly as possible . the state of our water sector , give the level of pollution in our waterway and the unacceptable bill hike that customer experience last year , be a national scandal . we can not allow thing to continue . we will move at the great possible speed , and I be sure that my hon . friend will hold our foot to the fire . as the Secretary of State and the Minister for Water and Flooding will know , sewage be a major issue in my constituency . as we have hear , the Government plan to build 1 . 5 million new home , ten of thousand of which will be in my area . lot of people be understandably concerned that South West Water will not keep pace with development , so what guarantee can the Secretary of State give that South West Water will put in the require infrastructure ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . the recommendation that I have accept will create new regional structure under which water infrastructure investment will align with spatial planning , so that we can guarantee that in the future . however , that legislation be not yet in place , so I have set up a water infrastructure board in the Department . it will ensure that water company be put in infrastructure where opportunity for housing development and other form of economic growth can take place . I welcome the statement . resident in Dartford will be impress by the Government ' s ambitious commitment to halve sewage pollution in our lake , river and sea within five year . they have have to put up with the poor performance of Thames Water for too long . do the Secretary of State agree that , unlike the conservative party , which have 14 year to fix this , and unlike Reform , which appear to have no idea how to fix it , when the Labour Government say that we will clean up our water and protect the british bill payer , we mean it ? my hon . friend rightly point to sewage get bad and bill rise every year for 14 year under the previous Government . we be turn the tide on Tory sewage today , and over the next five year resident in Dartford and elsewhere will see reduction in sewage until we meet our target . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his statement . yesterday on the Laura Kuenssberg show he show positivity in relation to the new strategy , and the step to be take certainly make sense . however , water in Northern Ireland be still publicly own , yet we still have the same difficulty that the Government be seek to combat here . so my question to the Secretary of State be a simple one : will he do I a favour and speak to the relevant Minister at the Northern Ireland Assembly , Andrew Muir , to ensure that we in Northern Ireland have the same result as what be go to happen here with the require change to infrastructure , give more responsibility and output the change that be make ? with the positivity the Secretary of State have show , that would take care of some of our difficulty in Northern Ireland . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I speak regularly with my counterpart in Northern Ireland and be more than happy to convey his message to they the next time I speak to they . as someone who enjoy swim in Cumbria ' s lake , river and tarn , I welcome the Secretary of State ' s ambitious commitment to halve sewage pollution in they . can he say more about how — unlike the Conservatives who do nothing for 14 year , and unlike reform ' s moon - on - a - stick approach to reform — when he say he have a plan to protect water consumer and protect water user , he actually mean it ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . voter want to see action , not just word . that be why I be so proud that that £ 104 billion of investment that we have secure start to be spend in April . it be already be invest ; people will see the change as a result of this . that will help to restore their confidence and their trust in politic , so shattered after 14 year of the Conservatives . can the Secretary of State publish the datum that quantify the amount lose in leak , so that the public can understand exactly how much water and how much of their hard - earn money be lose ? it will also help the water company to focus on fix their pipe ; it be no good just build another reservoir , as they might do in my area , if the water just continue to be lose en route to where it be need . the hon . Lady be right : transparency be always very important . I believe that datum be available and be happy to write to direct she to it so she can share the information with her constituent . for far too long family in Scarborough and Whitby have be pay the price of failure . Yorkshire Water be recently force to pay out £ 40 million due to serious failing yet a few day later customer ’ bill rise by almost a third . will my right hon . friend say a little more to reassure my constituent that a national social tariff be now on the card for those on low income ? we always want to support those on low income and those who may be experience water poverty ; nobody should be worried about their water bill because their income be too low . social tariff already exist in every region . we will be consult on the proposal for a national social tariff , which the Independent Water Commission have propose in its final report . citizen and family in my city of Birmingham be currently pay an average of £ 400 a year for their water bill — increase to £ 800 by the end of this Parliament term . we know that the cost of living be spiral out of control , and while family struggle with the cost of living , big bonus be be take by chief executive and shareholder . will the Secretary of State consider bring water back into public ownership , give that more than 60 % of the british public be ask for that ? nationalise the water company would , as I have already say , cost £ 100 billion — money that we would have to strip out of the national health service and education in order to hand to the people who own the water company that have be pollute our waterway . it be not an idea that commend itself to I , I be afraid . Calder Valley have see near - flood and a hosepipe ban . meanwhile , in 2024 , Yorkshire have see 68 , 186 sewage spill last over 430 , 000 hour . do this mean an end to a useless regulator that be preside over a fail industry ? well , the answer to that question be very quick : yes , it do . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the register as I be an office holder on the all - party parliamentary water group . last year , at the first Prime Minister ' s question of the Session , I draw the Prime Minister ' s attention to the fact that Thames Water have pump sewage into the River Evenlode for 2 , 600 hour in the previous year . I call then for the scrapping of Ofwat , and I be delighted that the Secretary of State have listen to my party and so many campaigner by do so today . Thames Water have pump a further 1 , 000 hour - worth of sewage into the same river in the intervene period , however , which be why the Evenlode Catchment Partnership have take to citizen science to try to measure those figure . the Secretary of State set out that he wish to halve the number of spill , but why be he not seek to halve their volume and quantity , for that be what be kill our river ? our target for sewage reduction be the most ambitious target put forward by any Government in our country ' s history , and I be very proud of that . it be an important step - stone to restore our river , lake and sea to the good health and purity that many of we will remember from when we be young . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , which be detailed , practical and focus on outcome . that be in stark contrast to the ludicrous , back - of - a - fag - packet policy of the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who claim yesterday that he would simultaneously nationalise half the water industry , without know how much it would cost , and bring in more business people to run it — the people who have be free to run up debt , force up bill , dump sewage , and leave pipe break , reservoir dry and our lake , sea and river filthy . such people include , of course , the chief executive of Southern Water , Lawrence Gosden , who have a £ 1 . 4 million pay package that he should hand back , as my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) point out . however , how will the Government answer the people who say that these proposal do not go far enough and will still leave our precious water , lake and sea in the hand of shyster and spiv ? my hon . friend be right to point out that the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , by his own admission , have " no idea " and no clue about this issue . my hon . friend be also right that the proposal be detailed . Sir Jon provide a 450 - page report with 88 separate recommendation that we will consult on . when we implement a final version , it will be the big overhaul to our water sector in more than a generation . we will reset it from top to bottom , so we have a water sector that work on the side of customer , the environment and investor , rather than the serial failure that we witness under the previous Government . the Derwent run through the heart of Derby , but thank to the pollute water company and the Tories , its health be in serious doubt . can the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that this Labour Government be commit to take the robust action that be desperately need to restore the river and preserve it for our community to enjoy safely ? the state of the River Derwent be , alas , similar to many other river , lake and sea up and down the country . that be why we be launch a water revolution today to completely reset the water sector from top to bottom so that the failing of the past can never happen again . Norfolk be home to many beautiful beach and river but , as in many area , people be concerned about the state of their water . the cow Tower Dippers in Norwich be apply for designate swim status , which would mean that Anglian Water be oblige to monitor the water . that be one specific example , but can the Secretary of State expand on how the reform will help local group to hold water company to account and speed up such process ? by monitor every single outlet and make that visible to people across the country — campaigner and resident — we will open up the system with far great transparency than have previously be the case . last week , it be reveal that the chief executive of Southern Water be award an egregious , enormous pay rise worth hundred of thousand of pound , despite the company continue to oversee sewage spill and infrastructure failure that affect my constituent . do the Secretary of State agree that water boss should not profit from oversee catastrophic failure ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend and share his sentiment that the payment be outrageous . it be possible as part of a scheme that be permit under the regulatory regime allow by the previous Government . we have change the law ; it will not happen again . I commend the Secretary of State on the action in his statement to hold water company to account , not least with the new regulator and ombudsman . Scotland ' s widespread water pollution challenge be far great than England ' s , particularly the sewage - relate pollution in our river and on our beach . Scottish Water be publicly own , but Scottish Ministers be fail to take the problem seriously , with inadequate monitoring . do the Secretary of State agree that Scotland need to take similar urgent action , which only a new direction under Scottish Labour can deliver ? I agree with my hon . friend . we have an example early of the complacency with which the SNP treat these kind of issue . there be only one chance now in Scotland for a reset : the election of a Scottish Labour Government in Holyrood to work to clean up pollution from our river , lake and sea , as we be do . my constituent have be hit by a massive rise in bill , which be a real kick in the tooth give that thousand of they be without water after a major burst early this year . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to devolve the economic regulation of water to Wales , which will allow the Welsh Government to move forward with the commission ' s recommendation on have an independent economic regulator in Wales . do he agree that that demonstrate the value of two Labour Governments work together for bill payer in Wales ? I agree with my hon . friend . I understand that the Welsh Deputy First Minister have lay a statement before the Senedd today give his comment on Sir Jon ' s report . I thank the Secretary of State for everything he be do to transform water company across our country . my resident in Gillingham and Rainham have suffer astronomical hike in their bill and have be expose to pollution and sewage dump in our water , yet the chief executive of Southern Water think that he deserve a bonus of approximately £ 700 , 000 on top of his salary . do the Secretary of State agree that that be an absolute disgrace ? will he ensure that any loophole use to bring forward those bonus be shut down under his reform ? I agree with my hon . friend that that be disgraceful . I be afraid that these problem arise because the previous Government instruct the regulator to apply only a light - touch approach to regulation , when they really need to get an absolute grip on this fail sector . the previous Government fail to do that , but this Government will ensure that that happen . many of my constituent share my utter disgust at the way in which water company have be able to profit from degrade our river and chalk stream . it be fantastic to see bonus already ban at pollute Anglian Water and to see that we be follow up by take action and sack regulator that be asleep at the wheel . as we start on really ambitious reform to halve sewage spill over the come year , how can we ensure that we be tighten up some of those monitoring procedure so that my constituent can see clearly and transparently whether we be feel the benefit locally ? monitoring will now be compulsory on every single outlet , not just some of they . that datum will be publish in near real time so that consumer know exactly what be go into the waterway in the area where they live or where they be on holiday . I warmly welcome the statement and the work of the Government . Portsmouth , as an island city , be well aware of the damage do ; we see it , we smell it and we feel it in our pocket every day . More than 100 of my constituent have raise their fury and disappointment at the way that the Tories allow firm to extract billion and pump raw sewage . Abolishing Ofwat and have an independent water commissioner be another brilliant step that will have real tooth and serve customer . will the Secretary of State confirm that this Government will ensure action — that we do not just monitor , we take action ; that there be no light touch and we take action ; that our action ensure that fair water company serve the public interest first ? will he meet I and my resident David Taylor , a brilliant campaigner and inventor , to explore how we not only stop sewage pumping , but reduce leak ? I assume that be not my hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) , but another David Taylor . I be happy to ensure that my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) get that meeting . let I take this opportunity to thank she for be such a champion for her resident and her constituency . I have have the honour of visit a couple of time , and I have see how strongly she fight for clean water in her community . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s focus on protect water customer , because my constituent and I have see our Thames Water bill go up dramatically . we want to know that those bill increase be go towards improve the infrastructure and customer service , as oppose to payout to boss that happen so much under the regulator ' s watch . I have a meeting with Thames Water boss in their read headquarters next week . follow that meeting , will the Secretary of State meet I and fellow Labour mp work on the issue to discuss how we can well hold Thames Water to account on behalf of all our constituent ? I be more than happy to make sure my hon . friend get a meeting with an appropriate Minister . I be sure she will be pleased to know that this Government have ringfence customer ' money so that it can only be spend on the purpose it be intend for , include upgrade break and leak pipe , and will no long be divert to pay for bonus and dividend , as use to happen under the previous Government . what a pleasure it be to welcome the Secretary of State to the water meadow in Bury St Edmunds . the Lark and the Linnet in Bury St Edmunds and the Gipping in Stowmarket be disgracefully neglect , and my own laboratory test reveal dangerously high ammonia level , for I too have become a citizen scientist . I welcome the decision to scrap Ofwat , but do the Secretary of State agree that our precious Suffolk chalk stream must be protect ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and it be indeed a pleasure to visit Bury St Edmunds — he be very lucky to represent such a beautiful part of the country . in become a citizen scientist , he have join a very proud movement , and I be sure that he will make an important contribution to its work . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and these ambitious reform . around 10 % of the UK ' s chalk stream run through Hertfordshire , and we be lucky that Hertford and Stortford be home to many of they , include the River Stort and the River Lea . as the Secretary of State announce further action to clean up our water and the water sector , will he reassure resident of my community that this Labour Government will protect our precious local chalk stream ? I be happy to give my hon . friend that reassurance . the change we be bring about through this water revolution will reduce level of pollution in chalk stream , and they will also reduce the need for abstraction from those chalk stream , which have be one of the most damaging feature cause such distress to resident of his constituency , across Hertfordshire , and of other part of the country . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement , which mean that Thames Water will no long be able to treat my constituent with contempt — as it do under the previous Conservative Government — by divert many million from the bill pay by local resident to shell out dividend to its shareholder and pay itself bonus , all the while pump load of sewage into our river . the Secretary of State have talk about ringfencing ; can he clarify what will happen if Thames Water do not now invest enough of its income in stop the spill and clear up our river ? be it fair to say that Thames Water and its director be still drink in the last chance saloon ? the new regulatory regime will allow for much close supervision of the water company , and will be able to intervene much early if there be any sign of those company fail to invest in the priority that they have commit to invest in . just this morning , I be absolutely disgusted to see report of a sewage leak in the River Hipper in my constituency , so I welcome the Secretary of State ' s ambition to tackle this issue . that leak be particularly gall , because it come after massive hike to the bill of those who , like myself , live in North East Derbyshire . can the Secretary of State explain how the new water ombudsman will help we when we seek to challenge unfair bill ? People will have the right to go to the ombudsman to take up complaint such as that one , or any other complaint . previously , there be no statutory ombudsman that water customer could have recourse to when they face problem . we will bring one in , and it will operate alongside the much - increase level of compensation that we have already introduce through the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , which my hon . friend support . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the scale of ambition he have show today . although there be many issue in the water sector in Scotland — not least the combine sewer overflow discharge into the Water of Leith at Colinton Dell — one thing we understand be that to reduce CSO spill , we have to reduce the amount of rainfall go into our combine pipe , which be do through planning in Scotland . the Cunliffe report make clear that it be time to enact schedule 3 to the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 , which would do the same in England . will the Secretary of State take that recommendation forward ? in my view — and Sir Jon Cunliffe also make this point — it be very important that we align water infrastructure investment with spatial planning , so that we can tackle the kind of problem that my hon . friend have refer to . we intend to go ahead with that in England ; I have already accept that recommendation in principle , even ahead of any consultation . of course , the situation will be different in Scotland , because it have a SNP Government who have not really take these issue seriously . resident of my constituency often ask I how we get to a situation in which water company ceo can oversee record level of sewage spillage , let our infrastructure crumble and charge hard - press customer even more , yet enjoy extortionate bonus . do the Secretary of State agree that if this be to be the moment when we turn the page on 14 year of failure , we must never again abandon bill - pay water customer like the previous Government do ? not only should we never abandon bill payer , but we never will abandon they . we be revolutionise the entire water sector so that customer ’ interest be right at the heart of it in a way they have never be before . I congratulate the Secretary of State and his team on their steadfast commitment to clean up our waterway , and on today ' s welcome announcement . my constituent care greatly about clean up the scourge of sewage be pump into our water — our beautiful estuary — after year of neglect by the Conservative party . I also note the Government ' s commitment to ban wet wipe that contain plastic , which we discuss at our recent water summit in Southend . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the concern that be raise about the actual flush - ability of some wipe that be mark as be flushable ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern , as do the Water Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) . we would be happy to make sure he get his meeting . I welcome the independent water commission ' s report — it be a serious piece of work . the water company be privatise with no debt , yet follow year of dividend , excessive debt and opaque financial structure , the financial stability of the water sector be a cause of very serious concern . recommendation 56 to 59 engage substantially with that topic , as do other recommendation . will the Secretary of State commit to carefully review whether the implementation of many of the recommendation deal with financial stability can be accelerate ahead of legislation , to protect both resilience and bill payer ? yes , we be look at what recommendation we can bring forward early ; other will be part of the consultation . I call the ever - patient Peter Swallow . Thames Water have spend thousand of hour dumping sewage into the River Blackwater in Sandhurst and the Cut in Bracknell . under this government , it have be hit by the large fine ever and its bonus have be block , but now it seem to think that it should be allow to get away with give its boss bonus — that it have a special right not to have to pay those fine . will the Secretary of State tell Thames Water to jog on ? I think my hon . friend have already do the job for I . that conclude the statement . I thank the Secretary of State and the shadow Secretary of State for their presence throughout a lengthy session . Middle East with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the middle east . I will begin with Syria . we have be horrify by the recent violence in the south , include civilian death . clash between Druze and Bedouin militia have quickly escalate into intense fighting , with involvement from Government force and further israeli strike on the syrian military . as I have say directly to Foreign Minister al - Shaibani , we want to see the fighting end , civilian protect , and the right of all Syrians uphold . the violence in Suwayda must be investigate , and those responsible must be hold accountable . we want humanitarian access to be restore and for aid to be deliver , and Syria ' s sovereignty must be respect . the UK can be proud of our support to the syrian people over many year . a stable Syria matter to the UK ' s national interest , in term of terrorism , irregular migration and regional stability . we must work to prevent extremism , sectarianism or lawlessness take hold now that Assad be go . that be why we be back a sustainable ceasefire . it be why we support an inclusive transition , and it be why I visit Damascus recently to support the new Government and to press they to meet their commitment . I will now turn to the situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . it be two and a half month since Prime Minister Netanyahu restart offensive operation . the Israel Defence Forces have drive Palestinians out of 86 % of Gaza , leave around 2 million people trap in an area scarcely over 20 square mile . whatever this israeli Government might claim , repeat displacement of so many civilian be not keep they safe . in fact , it be quite the reverse . the new israeli aid system be inhumane and dangerous , and it deprive Gazans of human dignity . it contradict long - establish humanitarian principle . it create disorder that Hamas be now exploit , with distribution point reduce from 400 to just four . it force desperate civilian , child among they , to scramble unsafely for the essential of life . it be a grotesque spectacle , wreak a terrible human cost . almost 1 , 000 civilian have be kill since May seek aid , include 100 this weekend alone . there be near - daily report of israeli troop open fire on people try to access food . israeli jet have hit woman and child wait for a health clinic to open . an israeli drone have strike down child fill water container , which israeli official blame on a technical error . Hamas be of course contribute to the chaos and take advantage of it , but I utterly condemn the killing of civilian seek to meet their basic need . the israeli Government must answer : what possible military justification can there be for strike that have kill desperate , starve child ? what immediate action be they take to stop this litany of horror ? what will they do to hold those responsible to account ? I be a steadfast supporter of Israel ' s security and right to exist . I treasure the many connection between our people , and the horror of 7 October must never be forget , but I firmly believe that the israeli Government ' s action be do untold damage to Israel ' s stand in the world and undermine Israel ' s long - term security . Netanyahu should listen to the israeli people , some 82 % of whom desperately want a ceasefire , and to the hostage ' family , because they know a ceasefire offer the good chance to bring their love one home . those hostage may be hide in cramp tunnel under the ruin of Gaza , but we will not forget they , or Hamas ' s despicable action , and we will continue to demand their unconditional release . this offensive put they in grave danger , but still Netanyahu persist . indeed , Minister Katz have go far , propose to drive Gaza ' s entire population into Rafah , imprison Palestinians , unless they be persuade to emigrate . this be a cruel vision that must never come to pass , and I condemn it unequivocally . permanent forced displacement be a violation of international humanitarian law . many Israelis themselves be appalled . as the former israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak say , " it march we into the abyss " . he be right . today I join a statement with 31 Foreign Ministers as signatory . it have a simple , urgent message : the war in Gaza must end now . there be no military solution . negotiation will secure the hostage . far bloodshed serve no purpose . Hamas and Israel must both commit to a ceasefire now , and the next ceasefire must be the last ceasefire . I thank the United States , Qatar and Egypt for their tireless effort . I be sure that all member share my intense frustration that the ceasefire have not happen . until there be a breakthrough , we must keep do all we can to relieve the suffering . UK aid have save life , reach hundred of thousand with food , water , hygiene and sanitation , and essential healthcare . under the most appalling circumstance , our aid be save life today . that include the almost £ 9 million the UK have provide to UK - Med since we enter office , reach half a million patient inside Gaza and 24 , 000 in the past fortnight alone , include three - year old Razan — UK - fund medic remove a bullet from her neck after nearly three hour of surgery . these doctor and nurse work in the most extreme condition be true hero . they deserve the thank and admiration of the entire House . we be also work multilaterally . the 149 truck from the World Food Programme and unicef enter Gaza in recent day include food supply fund by the UK . thousands more truck laden with aid pay for by british taxpayer can enter the moment that the israeli Government let they in . today I be announce an extra £ 40 million for humanitarian assistance in Gaza this year , include £ 7 . 5 million for UK - Med to sustain its vital operation in Gaza and save more life . accompany the horror in Gaza be an accelerate campaign to prevent a future palestinian state in the west bank . it be embrace by Netanyahu , encourage by his Ministers and drive by an extremist ideology that want to suffocate the two - state solution , which be the only route to a last peace and security . we see it in the unprecedented pace of settlement expansion and in the shocking level of settler violence — and even settl terrorism , for that be what the most egregious ideological attack be . the deliberate attempt to squeeze the Palestinian Authority , unjustly deny they access to their own fund , harm Israel ' s long - term interest in the process . now the israeli Government be reintroduce plan to construct new unit in the e1 area of occupy East Jerusalem . if build , that settlement would separate the west bank ' s north from its south , and Palestinians in the west bank from East Jerusalem . these plan be wholly unacceptable , they be illegal , and they must not happen . we be strive to keep open the prospect of a two - state solution . UK assistance have be preserve the Palestinian Authority , contribute to essential palestinian worker ’ salary and support they to progress critical reform . today I can confirm that we be enhance our support , provide £ 7 million to strengthen the Palestinian Authority and palestinian governance , implement the agreement sign by I and Prime Minister Mustafa early this year , and deliver the reform plan that President Abbas have set out . I can also confirm that we be provide £ 20 million to support the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ' s many service for palestinian refugee . alongside that support , we be lead diplomatic effort to show that there must be a viable peaceful pathway to a palestinian state involve the Palestinian Authority , not Hamas , in the security and governance of the area . Hamas can have no role in the governance of Gaza , and nor must it be allow to use it as a launchpad for terrorism . israeli Ministers should support the Palestinian Authority , not actively undermine their economy , as Ministers Ben Gvir and Smotrich be do . the UK be co - lead with Egypt the humanitarian and reconstruction track for the forthcoming two - state solution conference , and we be push to agree plan for a credible next phase in Gaza , with a responsible , reform PA at their core , so that we can turn any temporary ceasefire into a last peace . in our year in office , this Labour Government have act to address this horrendous conflict . we restore funding to UNRWA after the Tories freeze it . we suspend arm export licence , when the Tories have decline to act . we have provide nearly a quarter of a billion in humanitarian assistance this year and next , get medical treatment and food to hundred of thousand of civilian in Gaza . we have stand with the hostage family at every stage . we have work with Jordan to fly medicine into Gaza , with Egypt to treat medically evacuate civilian , and with Kuwait and unicef to help child in Gaza . we have deliver three sanction package on violent settler , suspend trade negotiation with the israeli Government , and sanction far - right israeli Ministers for incitement . we have defend the independence of the international court . we have sign a landmark agreement with the Palestinian Authority and host the palestinian Prime Minister in London , push for the reform they need . we call for , work for and vote for an immediate ceasefire and the release of the hostage at every possible opportunity , and we will keep do so until this war be over , Hamas release the hostage and we finally have a pathway to a two - state solution . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . the violence , loss of life and conflict that continue in the middle east shock we all . event in the middle east have a direct impact on our national interest and on people live on our own country , from concern about family member in the region to demonstration on our street , and from the threat from Iran to the rise of antisemitism . we on the Opposition side of the House be clear that we want to see an end to the conflict in Gaza . we want to see the return of the hostage . the humanitarian support , which be so desperately need , must get in . there must be an end to the terror inflict by Hamas and Iran . however , the reality of peace and a sustainable end to the conflict in Gaza seem to be drift far away . what be Britain ' s role when it come to workable outcome and practical solution to advance an end to this conflict , and what diplomatic action be be take with regional ally and the United States ? where be Britain ' s voice and action when it come to put new pressure on Hamas to agree to the most recent US proposal to secure a ceasefire , and release the hostage who have be in cruel captivity for more than 650 day ? as for the statement that the Foreign Secretary sign early today , can he explain what an " unconditional and permanent " ceasefire mean for Hamas and the Palestinian Authority ? last week , I meet Keith and Aviva Siegel , and hear about their harrowing experience of be hold in brutal captivity by Hamas . I pay tribute to they for their incredible bravery and resilience , and for their dedication to secure the freedom of the remain hostage , from Gali and Ziv Berman to Matan Angrest and Omri Miran , and all those be hold in barbaric captivity . they must be return to their love one . the hostage be be deny humanitarian access by Hamas . what be the Government do about that , and when be the Foreign Secretary ' s last intervention on the issue ? the situation relate to aid for Gaza have deteriorate beyond all rational comprehension . the daily report of casualty seek aid be appal , and we utterly condemn these attack . but our word and political statement of condemnation be not save life , so what practical solution , proposal and option have the Foreign Secretary and the British Government discuss with Israel in respect of aid supply into Gaza ? what dialogue be there to find agreement on the opening of access for that aid that go beyond the current dangerous approach ? I remind the House that the last Conservative Government , through Lord Cameron , secured new aid route and well aid access to save life . surely the desperate urgency of the situation , which we all see , call for such option to be consider once again . I reiterate our long - stand position that settlement be not helpful to achieve long - term peace . Israel should not take step that could make a two - state solution more difficult , and must use its legal system to clamp down on settler violence . we want a two - state solution that guarantee security and stability for both Israelis and Palestinians , and I be sure the Foreign Secretary agree that it should come only at a time that be conducive to peace and can not be the start of a peace process — certainly not while israeli hostage be still in captivity in Gaza . do he agree that there need to be a clear plan and international measure to see the exit of Hamas from Gaza ? as for Syria , the barbaric violence that we have witness in recent day can not continue . all group and minority in Syria must be protect . the Foreign Secretary mention his recent discussion with the transitional syrian leadership . do he convey to those in charge that they have a responsibility to end the armed conflict in their country and guarantee the protection of all minority group in Syria , before the international community remove sanction and normalise diplomatic relationship ? what assurance have he receive from the transitional Government , and have those commitment be meet in any way with measurable action ? will he update the House on whether any of the £ 64 . 5 million dedicate to Syria that be announce by the Government early this month will be use to deal with the aftermath of these late clash , and on how it will be spend ? do he deem sufficient action to have be take by the interim Government on the destruction of chemical weapon ? do he believe that the hay ' at Tahrir al - Sham Government be capable of secure Syria ' s border , and do he intend to change the proscribe status of HTS ? what be his assessment of the effect of the sanction that have already be lift ? have they have any unintended side effect ? Syria ' s future still hang in the balance , and we need to be wholly evidence - lead in our approach . the Foreign Secretary do not mention Iran , but we understand from report that Iran , Britain , France and Germany be due to hold nuclear talk in Istanbul on Friday . what be the purpose of those talk , be he co - ordinating action with the United States , and what be the content of the deal that he want to see ? I be grateful to the shadow Foreign Secretary for the tone of her remark , and I be grateful for the cross - party consensus in the House that this war must come to an end . I note the huge concern that we all feel , not just in the House but in the international community , about the humanitarian suffering that we continue to see . the right hon . Lady ask what more could be do and pray in aid the work of the former Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron . she will recognise that Lord Cameron and , before he , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) raise the humanitarian situation with the Israelis . it have become steadily bad . the number of aid point be now down to four , and , while the new foundation be offer aid , people be die as they scramble for that aid . I note that the right hon . Lady do not say we should return to the 400 aid point that we have in the past , and she will note that her Government do not refund funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , but we believe that the UN and its system be well place to deliver aid to Gaza , and that be the position that we continue to maintain . against that backdrop , the right hon . Lady ask what we be do on a multilateral basis and what we be do in work with other to bring this to an end . I ask she to read the statement that have land , which 31 country have now sign up to . of course we be press and work with colleague . I speak to Minister Sa ' ar once again today , urge he to do the right thing — to secure a ceasefire , but also to look at the aid system that be not work . as for governance , the right hon . Lady will know that in a couple of week ' time we will participate in the two - state conference that have be organise by France , and she will also know that that conference be now dedicate to look closely at the governance arrangement that must be put in place . when Hamas leave — and they must go ; they can not govern Gaza — how do we ensure that it be not a 60 - day pause , but that we bring an end to this and move to the two - state solution ? the right hon . Lady know our commitment to recognition , as set out in our manifesto , and the conversation about recognition that be go on internationally . the right hon . Lady rightly press the case on Syria . when I meet al - Sharaa , I make it absolutely clear that his Government have to be inclusive . I press he on his background as a terrorist , and on our concern — the concern that exist in this Chamber — but we must work with he to ensure that the Government be inclusive , and to ensure that security be fundamental . as the right hon . Lady will understand , there be much that we need to do to support they on counter - terrorism at this time , and , in a country where 90 % of people be live in poverty , to ensure that people receive the aid and support that they need — and , indeed , that that aid and support go to the area affect by the murder we have see over the last few day . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . early today , 31 country put out a powerful message : the war must end now , aid must go into Gaza unrestricte , the hostage must be release , and all party must uphold international law . that powerful message be send to Israel , and by return it be reject . it be denounce by Israel as be " disconnect from reality " . so what now ? in that statement , the 31 nation say : " we be prepared to take further action to support an immediate ceasefire and a political pathway to security and peace for Israelis , Palestinians and the entire region . " what be we go to do , may I ask , and do that include the final recognition of Palestine ? my right hon . friend be right to call into question so quickly the israeli Government ' s rejection of the advice of their friend and 31 country , which have come together to express their horror at people lose their life when simply reach out to get aid and humanitarian care . she refer to the debate about recognition . we will be work with our french colleague , who be focus the upcoming conference on how we get to two state ; as she would expect , the UK will play its part . on the broad issue , I hope and pray that we get a ceasefire , and of course that will lead to further activity as we head towards the UN General Assembly . I call the Liberal Democrat spokesman . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . I welcome his commitment to a diplomatic resolution in Syria , and to hold the government of Syria and Israel accountable for protect all civilian , especially minority . the Foreign Secretary be right to say that the situation in Gaza be inhumane and grotesque and that a ceasefire be desperately need . I welcome the aid allocation that he have announce , but the problem be that the situation be not new and that repeat expression of regret by this Government have not prevent further carnage from be work by the Netanyahu Government . the whole House see the passion with which the right hon . Gentleman announce the british , french and canadian joint position on 20 May , and with which the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , sanction Ministers Smotrich and Ben - Gvir on 10 June . in those statement , Ministers say that " we can not stand by " and that they would respond " not just with word but with action . " — [ Official Report , 10 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 913 . ] I think they mean it , and yet two month later , the Secretary of State have only word , not action . once again , his joint statement with other country say only that " we be prepared to take further action " , and yet child queue for food or water be still be kill every single day as the israeli Cabinet maintain its grotesque blockade of humanitarian aid . it now propose an open - air prison for all Gazans , which , accord to Ehud Olmert , would amount to " ethnic cleansing " . today , I speak to the Oxfordshire doctor Nick Maynard and Nada Al - Hadithy from Nasser hospital in Gaza . they describe the desperation of civilian face the late israeli attack , on Deir al - Balah , and the death of patient for want of basic dressing , and say that IDF sniper fire directly into the hospital compound . yet settler in the west bank continue illegally to occupy palestinian home and land , and the remain hostage , who have be hold in Gaza for over 650 day at the hand of Hamas terrorist , be no close to release . I have write to the Foreign Secretary frequently to set out the many more step that Liberal Democrats believe he should take , so I will simply ask he this . do he truly believe that his Government be do all they can to put an end to the terrible violence and starvation be visit on Gaza in clear contravention of international law ? can he explain why there have be so few consequence since he and the Under - Secretary of State speak so powerfully in the last two month ? and can he dispel the widespread view that he be not set the policy he would choose , but that he be instead be rein in by no . 10 ' s desire not to upset President Trump by act more boldly ? I associate myself with much that the hon . Gentleman say . it be a source of great regret to I that we have not bring this most horrendous of war and conflict to an end . my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , who chair the Foreign Affairs Committee , refer to the israeli Government ' s response to the statement sign by 31 country , which I have not hear because I have be sit in this Chamber . that ignore of the international community be tarnish greatly the reputation of Israel . I list in my statement the action that this Government have take in the last year , since come into office . the hon . Gentleman know that this Government have lead much of the multilateral effort , and that sit behind both the leader ' statement a few week ago and the Foreign Secretaries ' statement today . we will continue to press . we continue , of course , to look at what far we may need to do , as he would expect . I wish I could say that if we be to recognise tomorrow , it would bring this war to an end , but I be afraid I be not sure that be the case . what be require now be painstaking diplomacy to get to a ceasefire , and my assessment be that we will not see that ceasefire until the Knesset rise . rise — order . once again , a very large number of hon . member wish to take part in this discussion . the intention be to try to accommodate everybody , but that will mean member exercise a degree of self - restraint that be not entirely evident during the previous statement . I leave it to you , but if you want everybody to be call , then please , we need question , not statement . if I may say so , Foreign Secretary , we also need relatively brief answer . the statement we have from the 25 or 31 partner take we no far forward . it say : " we be prepared to take further action to support an immediate ceasefire " . People want action , not more repetition of , " we call for " , " we demand " and " we urge " . we want action , and this be not action . we have have this so many time before . we have this terrible humanitarian crisis , the forcible transfer of civilian , and starvation by Israel . how can it be that we have a situation in which the IDF be fire at child and systematically go for the head , stomach and testicle for their sport , and in which Rafah have be raze to the ground and this euphemistic " humanitarian city " be be construct , which the former Prime Minister of Israel have call a " concentration camp " ? when be we go to take the appropriate action to bring about a comprehensive trade and arm embargo and concentrate the mind of Israel ? nothing else be work . they be not listen , and they be get away with murder every single day . the hon . Gentleman clearly do not listen to a word that I say , but I be sure that the Foreign Secretary do . I understand my hon . friend ' s frustration , and he have be consistent for a very long time . as I have say , I regret that we be not in a place where we currently have a ceasefire , despite the international community call for one and the pressure that exist . he be right : what we be see at the moment be an abomination , and I join he in those remark . I call the Father of the House . of course we all condemn the evil Hamas , but be not Prime Minister Netanyahu the big recruiting sergeant for Hamas ? for every fighter he kill , he be radicalise the whole world against the state of Israel because of this appalling humanitarian solution . I agree with everything the Foreign Secretary say , but be word enough ? I wonder whether he will oblige the House and allow a free vote , which I bet would pass by an enormous majority , on a motion for further action against the extreme right - wing action of Prime Minister Netanyahu , sanction , and recognition of the state of Palestine . I hope that the israeli Government be watch and note what senior parliamentarian on both side of this House be say . the right hon . Gentleman will know that 83 % of the population now want a ceasefire , and he will have see the remark of former Prime Ministers and of all the Opposition in Israel , who condemn the most recent proposal suggest by Minister Katz . early this month I host in Parliament Dr Waseem Saeed , a british surgeon who have return from work in the Nasser hospital in Gaza , where he treat child for severe burn , amputation and shrapnel wound that be crawl with maggot . he show we video that would shock everybody in this House . do the Foreign Secretary agree that Israel should face a reckoning in the court for such injury and death , and that the UK should force such a reckoning ? more importantly , do he agree that recognise a state of Palestine be really about recognise the humanity of the palestinian people , and that their child deserve to have equal worth to every child on this planet ? I agree with my hon . friend that the palestinian cause be a just cause , and I would ask the israeli Government to reflect again on international humanitarian law . I have in front of I " A Practitioner ' s Legal Handbook " , and I be hugely concerned , as I read through it , that it feel that there be breach . the death of those try to access aid in Gaza be truly shocking . the Foreign Secretary will be aware that the number of civilian kill be be dispute by Israel and there be suggestion of disinformation . do he agree that one way in which we could establish what be actually happen be if international media organisation , like the BBC and Reuters , be allow full access to Gaza ? yes , 100 % . each time member come together for a statement on the middle east , there be a new horror to comment on , a new inhumanity unfolding and a new form of strong word from the Dispatch Box . last week , IDF shell hit a church shelter 600 civilian . several people be kill . the Pope call it " barbarity " . yesterday , a World Food Programme convoy come under fire from israeli force , despite numerous assurance that humanitarian operational condition would improve . innocent Palestinians who be queue for desperately need food be kill . accord to M é decin Sans Fronti è re , we be witness in real time the creation of condition for the eradication of palestinian life in Gaza . so I ask the Foreign Secretary : where be this Government ' s red line ? at what point do our basic humanity require we to take strong action ? many of we in this House think the red line be pass a long time ago . I remind my hon . friend of the action that this Government have take and how we have try to lead in the international community on this issue . I also join she in condemn what we have see in relation to civilian . page 28 of " Conflict , Hunger and International Humanitarian Law : a Practitioner ' s Legal Handbook " make it clear that : " party to armed conflict must take constant care in the conduct of military operation to spare the civilian population , civilian and civilian object . " clearly , that be not happen . like other in this House , I be frankly astonish at the statement of the Foreign Secretary . at a time when we have get daily lynching and expulsion on the west bank , and dozen be murder as they beg for aid , I be just beyond word at his inaction — and , frankly , complicity by inaction . he say himself that there be a massive prison camp be construct in the south of Gaza and he know that lead genocide scholar from across the world be ring the alarm bell , yet he have the temerity to show up in this House and wave his cheque book as if that be go to salve his conscience . can he not see that his inaction and , frankly , cowardice be make this country irrelevant ? can he also not see the personal risk to he , give our international obligation — that he may end up at the Hague because of his inaction ? finally , frankly , I make an appeal to Labour back Benchers : we can not get your leadership to change their mind ; only you can , if you organise and insist on change . order . before I bring in the Foreign Secretary , I remind member that we have other business to proceed with tonight , so please keep question and answer short . I understand the fury that the right hon . Gentleman feel , but I have to tell he — why don ' t you feel it ? I have to tell he that it demean his argument when he personalise it in the way that he do . it be unbecoming , and not something the House expect , particularly of its more senior member . we have see again image of child die of starvation and malnutrition , and this come after month of warning from the UN system about the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s announcement of more aid , but we know that the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation will not allow in more UK aid . he say to I 10 day ago at the Foreign Affairs Committee that if there be not a ceasefire , he would consider further action against Israel . as we have see , the Israelis respond to the call for a ceasefire by launch a new offensive in Deir al - Balah . what further action will we take to try to end this catastrophic situation ? we have actually be able to get in some further aid with the World Food Programme , and of course that be important . it be also right to say that , with our funding of UK - Med , we have be able to save life . of course , we must endeavour every single day to make the humanitarian situation well . the Foreign Secretary appear before the Foreign Affairs Committee on 8 July , when he be ask what would happen if we do not see a ceasefire in Gaza in the come week . he be also ask whether the british Government would take further measure against Israel . the Foreign Secretary be pensive , and say " yes " — that the british Government would be take further measure if the abomination in Gaza continue . could he tell the House what those further measure be , or at the very least when we might see they ? we be do everything we can in support our qatari , egyptian and US friend to get a ceasefire . the hon . Member will understand that , in look closely at these issue , even if we be contemplate further measure , they work more effectively if we can co - ordinate ally . the ground invasion of Deir al - Balah be the late to add to the daily attack on Gazans , and it be further evidence that the conflict have go too far . israeli Foreign Ministers have already reject the joint statement sign by 31 country , include our . can the Foreign Secretary outline what additional specific step he will take with other to bring about a ceasefire and secure aid for starve Gazans ? I set out in my statement the action that this Government have take , and I stand by it . I regret that we have not bring about a ceasefire . I have also set out that we be attempt to get in more aid and how we be support the palestinian people , include the Palestinian Authority , and I stand by that . on the Foreign Secretary ' s watch and in his statement today , he have refuse to call it a genocide , he have refuse to end all arm sale to Israel and , of course , he continue to refuse to recognise a state of Palestine , so here be something he could do . on his watch , just two wee kid who have be bomb or shoot by the israeli force have be evacuate to the UK for medical treatment . the First Minister of Scotland write to the Prime Minister say that we stand ready to provide hospital treatment to such child . shamefully , the Prime Minister have not even bother to respond . will the Foreign Secretary do what his boss will not , and commit the UK to make sure that child who have be bomb by Israel be treat — order . I call the Foreign Secretary . I say to the right hon . Gentleman that we have suspend sale of arm that could be use in Gaza . he should look closely at our export licensing regime , because much of it be not about arm . it be about , for example , equipment that we send to support non - governmental organisation and other in the area . of course , I be happy to look , with the Home Secretary , at what more we can do for child who be suffer . minister say it be for the court to decide whether genocide have occur in Gaza , but the genocide convention be aim primarily at prevention , and the International Court of Justice have already find that there be a plausible risk of genocide and advise that all state must act collectively to prevent it . while the occupy israeli force be accelerate the building of illegal settlement in the west bank , the scene in Gaza be horrific , with almost 1 , 000 people kill by the IDF while just seek aid . we be see starvation be use as a weapon , the forced displacement of Gazans and mass civilian death , and senior israeli official be use dehumanising language while propose to concentrate gazan into a mass detention camp . so I ask the Foreign Secretary : when will the Government take decisive action , with international partner , to prevent genocide ? my hon . friend pray in aid the law in term of plausibility in breach of international humanitarian law . if he look at my statement back in September , he will see that I assess that there be a clear risk of breach international humanitarian law . it be for that reason that I suspend arm sale . rise — I be aim to finish this statement at around a quarter to 8 . give the length of question , member will be able to see that not everybody will get in . everybody condemn the death as people queue for aid , but this aid system that be enforce be only possible because of the support of the United States in its delivery — so what be the Foreign Secretary do to persuade the United States that this be not the way to deliver aid into Gaza ? I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that I have make representation to Secretary of State Rubio about my concern with the aid system . I have do that alongside many European Foreign Ministers and member of the G7 . I recently meet the mother of Oz Daniel , a 19 - year - old who be murder by Hamas on 7 October . his dead body be drag into Gaza . Oz love to play music ; he love Guns n ' rose and be a brilliant guitar player . this be about a mum who just want her dead son ' s body bring home . a senior US official have say that Israel be bend over backwards to agree a ceasefire and that it be Hamas who be block it . will the Foreign Secretary set out what pressure the Government be apply to Hamas , via Qatar and Egypt , to agree a ceasefire and to bring the hostage home ? my hon . friend be right to the extent that the challenge face on the ceasefire have be principally that Hamas do not want a pause and the israeli Government have say that they do want a pause . there have also be discussion within Israel of what withdrawal we would see of the IDF and , of course , change the humanitarian aid system . that be why a ceasefire have remain stuck , but it be my hope that once the Knesset rise on the 22nd , we will move to a ceasefire . as the Foreign Secretary follow the diplomatic path , will he ensure that in the discussion of the two - state solution , it be bear in mind that not only do the state of Palestine exist , but that Israel ' s neighbour do need to recognise Israel ' s right to exist ? yes , I will . Najwa Ahmed Fathi Radwan and Mohammed Hassan Yousef Daoud be just two of the ten of thousand of palestinian child who have be kill in Gaza . many of their name be read out over the course of 12 hour at a really powerful vigil , which I join in Aylesbury town centre this weekend . yet today , that list of dead child have likely just get long , with Israel ' s assault on Deir al - Balah . will the Foreign Secretary say to his israeli counterpart : enough be enough ? I reassure my hon . friend that I say that this morning to my israeli counterpart . rise — before I call the next speaker , let I say that I hear some unacceptable comment direct at a Member in this Chamber , and I will not be have that . we be investigate it . until I find out from the Clerks who say those word , please do be assure that I will investigate it . the Foreign Secretary , at the beginning of his remark , mention the savagery unfolding in southern Syria , and say that he have speak to his syrian interlocuter , Minister al - Shaibani , about it . have he speak to Tel Aviv about it , since the only country that have visibly come to the assistance of the Druze , for all the criticism that have be rightly aim at it , be Israel ? if he have , can he say what his assessment be of the wisdom or otherwise of the action that Israel have take ? the UK be clear that we expect Israel to adhere to its commitment that its presence in the area of separation in the south be both limited and temporary . I do press the israeli Foreign Minister on Israel ' s activity , which I worry destabilise the situation far . I recognise the Foreign Secretary ' s labour to get as many international ally on board and the importance of that , but clearly we must do more — this be not enough . Israel ' s flaunting of international law and the devastating consequence of that — I understand that israeli soldier be report be tell to kill child , to point and shoot — be completely unacceptable . as a starting point , perhaps we could ensure that we refuse the israeli air force chief entry to the Royal International Air tattoo . also , as other have say , how will we get over here child who need care ? I say that I will look at what more we can do should child require medical aid in our own country . if what my hon . friend say be correct , it would constitute a war crime , very clearly . we can not have soldier turn their gun on child . it would not be appropriate for I to comment on any decision that might come to I . last week , I host Keith and Aviva Siegel , both of whom be hostage and be release . the previous week , I meet family of hostage who all plead with all of we to get the hostage release . the hostage have now be in captivity for 654 day , without any access by the International Red Cross . will the Foreign Secretary call out Hamas to enable the International Red Cross to go to see those hostage and make sure they be be treat humanely ? the hon . Gentleman be right . I say in my statement that Hamas be make hay with the chaos that exist on the ground , and it be quite wrong to restrict the support of organisation such as the Red Cross and the Red Crescent . the Prime Minister respond to my question on Gaza in the Liaison Committee this afternoon by say : " we need a ceasefire and we need it straightaway " and " the situation on the ground be intolerable " . how will we get that ceasefire when the israeli Government have already reject the statement by the Foreign Secretary and his allied Ministers as " disconnected from reality " ? the will of the House be clear on this matter : it want action , not word . why be my right hon . friend not hear that ? I thank my hon . friend for his long - stand campaigning on these issue . of course I be hear the strength of feeling in the House — how could I not ? — and of course the israeli Government can see the strength of feeling in the House . he know the list of action that the UK have take . he know the work we be do with close ally . he know , too , that we have not bring this war to an end , and he will be familiar with the work we be do with country such as Qatar , Egypt and the United States to bring about a ceasefire . yesterday , it be report , as hon . member will be aware , that at least 93 Palestinians be shoot and kill while queue for GHF - distribute food because they and their family be be starve to death . the fact that GHF stand for Gaza Humanitarian Foundation smack of an Orwellian doublespeak which I find profoundly disturbing . the Foreign Secretary must surely agree that the current system of aid distribution head by the GHF be both unsafe and grossly inadequate . be the Secretary of State content that Britain be do all it can to ensure it be not complicit in the grotesque use of starvation as a tool of war ? I associate myself with what the hon . Lady have say , and I assure she , not just on my behalf but on behalf of everyone in this Chamber , that there will be no complicity among any of we in act where there could be a clear risk of a breach of international humanitarian law . last week I hear from Keith and Aviva Siegel , who have be hold hostage by Hamas . it be a powerful reminder that until all hostage be release , no hostage be release . that be true for Avinatan or and his family and Gali and Ziv Berman and their family — in fact , it be the family of hostage who be some of the loud voice call for an end to this war . will the Secretary of State outline what step he be take to ensure that the next ceasefire be permanent and will see hostage get out of Gaza and aid get in ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question ; he be right to mention the hostage . I meet regularly with hostage family and do a few week ago in my office . he be absolutely right that the overwhelming majority of the israeli people — 83 % — want a ceasefire so that the hostage can get out , and they want it to be a sustained and endure ceasefire , which be not currently the position of Benjamin Netanyahu . the UN special rapporteur on violence against woman and girl have say that palestinian mother be repeatedly watch their child slowly starve to death , be maim , be kill and be bury alive , and that it be a deliberate part of Israel ' s strategy physically and psychologically to destroy woman and the continuity of the palestinian people . she call this a femi - genocide . the Secretary of State have repeatedly say that the situation be intolerable , yet by fail to pull every single lever that this Government could pull , they be tolerate it . when will he stand on the right side of history and implement a full arm embargo , widespread sanction and a ban on the import of settlement good , and when will they fund evidence collection for prosecution ? I stand by all the decision we have make as a Government , which be numerous ; I list they in my statement . on the full arm embargo , I be content that we be not send arm that could be use in Gaza . I ask the hon . Lady to look closely at the export licensing regime , because there be many thing that be send to Israel , and they be for use by NGOs in Israel sometimes so that they themselves be not injure in theatre of conflict . doctor have tell we that they walk into the emergency room and see , if not starve and emaciated child , tiny body strew across the floor with burn , blast and bullet , and their job be to choose which child to save and which one they will have to let go . that be decision making . the Foreign Secretary have an option right before he to make a decision that could make a difference to those child — to protect all health facility , with the mean to do that at the UN . I trust that he will do that . secondly , if he do not recognise the state of Palestine , there will be no state leave to recognise . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the vision that she paint , and I associate myself with the remark she make in relation to child , particularly about starvation and the situation that they face . of course we be work closely with the UN system . I speak to Tom Fletcher at the beginning of last week to get the late on the aid situation , and we will continue to work with he . the Foreign Secretary state that he believe in a two - state solution — as I have do since at least the 1973 Yom Kippur war — but that Hamas must not be a part of it . do he agree that the good chance there ever be for the two - state solution be when Israel withdraw in 2005 from the Gaza strip ? Hamas be elect in January 2006 and have be in power there ever since and be still manage to hang on . do he accept that if ever the Government do recognise a palestinian state , it would have to be the west bank without the Gaza strip , give the internecine slaughter between Hamas on the one hand and the Palestine Liberation Organisation on the other that follow the last withdrawal ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that Hamas can not continue to govern in Gaza , and I suspect that everyone in this Chamber agree with that . I do believe that there be prospect beyond that . indeed , the IRA lay down its arm , and that be a template for how to demilitarise and how leader in this circumstance can perhaps exit Gaza . however , the continue undermining of the Palestinian Authority by the israeli Government , include the starvation of fund , be an attempt not to get to a two - state solution which all of we in this House want to see . we watch as family survey the ruin of their home and be mock by illegal settler in the west bank , and we watch as a little boy look at his dead relative , wait for he to take another breath . I watch a mother whose baby have its leg amputate before it even get to take its first step . where be our humanity ? to have a two - state solution , we need two state . let we recognise Palestine . can the Foreign Secretary tell I what word I need to say to he to get our government to take real meaningful action ? tell I what to say and I will say it . I would say to my hon . friend that we do need humanity , and everything that this Government have do have be to ensure that there be humanity and to ensure the dignity of the palestinian people and the hostage that be still underground . we will continue with everything we have to get that ceasefire , and we will throw everything at it — that be what we be do . I sense her frustration and that of many member in the Chamber . I be as frustrated as she be , but frustration alone will not deliver what we want to see . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the israeli Government should bear heavy consequence should they decide to proceed with the approval of the illegal e1 settlement plan in occupy East Jerusalem , which will threaten the two - state solution ? the last Government suggest back in 2014 that there would be consequence if the israeli Government move forward with e1 , so it be absolutely the case that there would be consequence if they make such a move , not just from the UK but from all international partner . child be be starve and shoot in front of our constituent ' eye . they be watch illegal settler systematically and strategically undermine the palestinian state . it be not that there be a risk of international humanitarian law be break . international humanitarian law be be break in front of our eye , on an hourly and daily basis . our constituent be ask what this Government be do to stop it , and they be ask that because it be unbearable and they can see that the current approach be not work . we be promise more action week ago , but today we be still not see more action , so what be the Government be do to secure accountability under international law , and when will they recognise the state of Palestine ? I thank my hon . friend for her strength of feeling and for campaign on and champion this issue in her constituency , but I remind she that we be support many group that be on the ground in the west bank document expansion and violence . that work assist the United Nations and the global community . there be a narrative around aid — we all want to see it reach the innocent in Gaza — which be that Israel be block it get into Gaza . however , over recent month Israel have facilitate nearly 2 million tonne of humanitarian aid get into Gaza . as of this morning , 700 truck of aid have pass from Israel and be sit in Gaza , undelivered . will the Foreign Secretary agree that aid be get through , and that what need to get well be the delivery ? I be afraid I can not agree with that statement . I do not recognise those number . as I understand it , Hamas want Egypt , Qatar and the United States empower as legal guarantor not only for a 60 - day truce , but up to the signatory date of any final agreement with Israel . can America not be prevail upon to act as a guarantor beyond the final settlement ? Hamas could be force to reconsider their objective under pressure from a population desperately look for long - term security . we be work particularly with arab partner on this issue . Hamas have to exit — they have to step away from the governance of Gaza . my hon . friend be right : we can not have a pause for 60 day ; we need an endure , permanent ceasefire . hundred of thousand of people in Gaza be be deliberately starve to death ; aid convoy be come under fire ; child be be shoot by soldier ; and school and hospital be be bomb . can the Foreign Secretary outline what further war crime would need to take place before the UK Government sanction the israeli Government and Prime Minister Netanyahu himself ? the hon . Gentleman would struggle to point to any Government of a major g7 or european state that have do as much as we have in office . we lead the sanctioning of Smotrich and Ben - Gvir specifically because of their language and behaviour in relation to the west bank . we have say that we keep sanction under review , as he would expect . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement with other Foreign Ministers , urge Israel to agree to a ceasefire and humanitarian aid . I say to my right hon . friend , who I know be entirely sincere , that member — and , indeed , the british people — have hear urging , demand and outrage in this Chamber , yet the situation only get bad , with more and more Palestinians die , each life of incalculable value . in my Adjournment debate in April , I ask what more we could do to help the palestinian people . when the Minister respond last week , he make some useful clarification , include that israeli settlement good should be label so that british people can decide what they be spend their money on . when it come to the action of the UK Government , however , I have to ask my right hon . friend : be this it ? in some sense , that be in the hand of those who continue to prosecute this conflict . my hon . friend be absolutely right when she say that each life be of incalculable value . I think I have make more statement on this subject than any other Minister have make statement in this House over the past year — of course , the Minister for the Middle East , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , have also make his fair share of statement . the strength of feeling be well know , and it be reflect not just here , but across the globe . the current course of the Government of Israel be bring that country into ill repute . that be what be happen . last week , in Bogot á , the Hague Group meet , lead by South Africa . those nation pledge to support the ICC and the ICJ , to refuse all arm sale to Israel , to refuse the facilitation of arm to Israel , and to refuse anything that enhance the occupation of Gaza and the west bank — in short , global opinion support the palestinian people . will the British Government also sign the Hague declaration and support that group of nation , which be determined to bring the world ' s attention to this , to end the genocide that be go on and the continue occupation ? I will speak to my south african counterpart about that issue . however , I say to the right hon . Gentleman that we in the UK support the ICC — indeed , it receive funding from british taxpayer — and the ICJ , and we also stand against what we be see in the west bank and in Gaza , so I would say that much of what he have say be consistent with UK policy . on Friday , the UN report that 800 people have be kill near aid site in Gaza over the past six week . over the weekend , yet again , 100 people die just seek food and water . I want to ask the Foreign Secretary a question he have be ask twice before . this month he tell the Foreign Affairs Committee that he would take further measure against Israel if there be no ceasefire and if the intolerable situation in Gaza continue . what exactly do he mean by that — specifically on trade , recognition and more ? our constituent want to know . all action be under review at this time . we be press for a ceasefire , and our assessment be that we could see one shortly after the Knesset rise . my hon . friend will understand that a ceasefire be our priority , as it be the single act that would stop the suffering that we be see in Gaza . she list some of the action she would expect to be under consideration with international partner . of course , we must act internationally alongside our partner if we be to have any effect . the disturbing image from Gaza lead we all to the conclusion that this war must end . however , we must remember that it be start because terrorist rape , burn and murder people , take captive and still abuse those captive today . the war could finish tomorrow if the terrorist release those captive and agree to a ceasefire . much have be say today about Israel try to starve the people of Palestine , but the fact be that since the new arrangement be put in place to stop Hamas steal aid , 82 million meal have be supply in Gaza . instead of talk about a two - state solution and recognise a state that do not exist — and that , if it do exist , would be control by terrorist — our Government should be stand by the israeli Government , who be seek justice for their own citizen . I can not agree with what the right hon . Gentleman have say , save for his remark that the hostage must be release . I want to gently point out to the Foreign Secretary that the reason so many of we be here be that we have be wait a long time for this statement . with the situation unfold , as many colleague have say , our constituent continue to write to we . last week , save the child hold a photo exhibition in Parliament in partnership with Choose Love and the photographer Misan Harriman — I should declare that he be the chair of the Southbank Centre , which be in my constituency . I want to read a clip from that exhibition . a question next to one of the picture ask : " if you have one superpower , what would it be and why ? " the answer of the young girl in the photo be : " the ability to change event in order to help my country to become free and help my child live in a safe environment like the rest of the child in the world " . we be see child be kill while try to access vital food and aid . we must ask ourselves : what more can we be do ? we be see child malnourish and starve . I ask the Foreign Secretary : where be the real action from this Government to stop that , so that more child can live ? I hear the strength of my hon . friend ' s conviction and view when she ask for more action . we be take action — we have take action every single day in office . british taxpayer be fund the alleviation of suffering . be it enough ? have we bring this war to an end ? we have not bring it to an end . I have to tell my hon . friend that the UK will be unable to do that unilaterally , which be why we be work with partner internationally . I have I have do that every single day in office . I raise my voice will not bring this war to an end . I lament that and I regret that . but be I sure that the UK Government be do everything in our power ? yes , I be . twenty - nine arm export licence be suspend in September due to the possible breaking of international law , yet between September and December we see a furth 34 licence . will the Foreign Secretary explain that decision ? how many licence have be grant this year ? what be the UK Government ' s red line for a total arm trade embargo ? Most licence be not for military use . Most do not go to israeli authority . many be for civilian use , such as product testing or body armour for journalist and NGOs . I be quite sure that the hon . member would not want we not to support those organisation . some be for component go to israeli company that be then re - export to third country , include NATO ally . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) be right ; we have be wait week for this statement . the truth be that our constituent do not understand — and neither do we — how we can track our steal mobile phone to China or Algeria but we can not track F - 35 component in the multimillion - pound arm trade . they do not understand why we have not report Israel directly to the International Criminal Court for what have be happen to aid worker , and they do not understand why , give that this House vote in 2014 to recognise the state of Palestine , that have not be enact . I hear the Foreign Secretary ' s frustration , and I do not doubt his frustration with his partner , but tonight we could say , " we do not need a conference — we will recognise the state of Palestine . " will he join we — yes or no ? again , I understand my hon . friend ' s strength of feeling . she know that there will be a two - state conference on 28 July , and of course we will participate . but she will have also detect that at that conference our french and saudi arabian colleague be talk not about recognition but about how we get to two state and get an endure ceasefire . it may be that as we head to September and the United Nations General Assembly the issue of recognition be raise once more . since 2023 , the Israel Defence Forces have kill a record number of journalist and kill a record number of humanitarian worker . they continually murder starve child as they queue for aid . an israeli soldier out his commander for their illegal order to arbitrarily kill civilian . that be not a sequence of coincidence , but war crime after war crime and a clear message to the world : do not intervene and do not observe what we be do to the Palestinians . the Foreign Secretary have say that he want a two - state solution . he can take a giant leap in that direction right now with a one - word answer . do the Foreign Secretary recognise the state of Palestine ? the hon . Member have hear what I have say about my commitment to two state . he know that we have not yet get a ceasefire , and he know that we be work with international partner to ensure that we get an endure ceasefire . he know the debate around recognition , because I have talk about it not just in Select Committees but at this Dispatch Box on many occasion . seventeen thousand , nine hundred and twenty - one child have be kill in this horrific war in Gaza . the israeli army willingly open fire on child collect food and try to access water . child be literally be starve to death , and those child not kill be leave with disable injury . I agree with the Foreign Secretary that the war in Gaza must end , but we have see the response from the israeli Foreign Minister — the israeli Government be ignore what this Government be say . what will the Foreign Secretary do now ? be it not time for an end to all arm sale , not just some of they , and a complete ban on all settlement good ? he say that he will be part of the conference on 28 July , but he do not need a conference to recognise the state of Palestine . I say politely to my hon . friend that when last year some country take a step to recognition , it do not change thing on the ground . she ask with passion , what be go on ? my focus be what be go on and try to alleviate the suffering . while I recognise the debate on recognition , and we must move to recognition at the appropriate point , I say to she politely that , in term of this conflict , I do not believe in all honesty that recognition would change the situation on the ground . every day we see more and more report of child be kill in cold blood while they queue for food . the horror can not get any bad . Prime Minister Netanyahu have already reject the statement sign by 31 country — it do not take he long — and it be clear that he be not interested in stop this horrific offensive . the time for word be over . the House want to see action , with widespread sanction , an end to all arm sale and recognition of Palestine as a state . Netanyahu deserve nothing less , and he might actually take notice if we take action . will the Foreign Secretary consider take more action to bring this horrific offensive to an end ? yes to that last bit . I want to see a ceasefire in the come day , but of course we continue to consider what further step we can take with ally to bring the war to an end , as the hon . Member would expect . do the Foreign Secretary accept that Israel ' s plan to transfer control of the Ibrahimi mosque from the palestinian municipality of Hebron be highly inflammatory and a violation of international law ? will the Government condemn any transfer of authority away from Palestinians and consider sanction against the Kiryat Arba settlement municipality if it assume such a role ? we be concerned about the statement make and the language use . we do believe that they be inflammatory and that , be that to take place , that would breach Israel ' s obligation . we be look closely at Israel ' s behaviour . word do matter , but action speak louder . what member across the House and citizen of the country — our constituent — can not understand be why the Foreign Secretary will not take the action available to he to end UK complicity in this horror . a full arm embargo and an end to all military co - operation , a full ban on all settlement good , sanction on all those responsible for genocide , recognition of the state of Palestine — why will he not take those concrete action now ? I reassure the hon . Lady that the UK Government be not complicit in any action that would breach international humanitarian law . I take that step back in September alongside restore funding to UNRWA . she ask for a full embargo . she will note that there be a judicial review of that decision , and the Government ' s position be uphold . she do not want to see we or our ally weaken in other conflict that have a direct bearing on the safety and security of the people of Britain . I welcome the Foreign Secretary reiterate this Labour Government ' s total opposition to Israel ' s military operation , something my constituent raise with I regularly , and our share abhorrence at the sight of child be shoot at as they seek food . the israeli Defence Minister announce his plan to forcibly transfer all palestinian civilian in Gaza to a camp in the ruin city of Rafah , which the former israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert have deem a concentration camp in all but name . do the Foreign Secretary agree that that be a completely unacceptable violation of international law that can not go ignore , and will the Government guarantee further action against Israel if it proceed with the plan ? yes , yes , yes . my hon . friend talk about the statement of Ehud Olmert . it be also right to say that other — Yair Golan , Yair Lapid , Benny Gantz and Ehud Barak , the former IDF chief — have all condemn what Minister Katz have suggest , and I too condemn it wholeheartedly . last week , as a Minister meet Yair Golan , shake hand , smile and take photograph , a palestinian mother face a dilemma : should she stay where she be and see the starvation of her child , or should she venture out and see the child be blow to piece , add to the 17 , 000 other who have die and the 10 a day whose limb be blow off ? these child do not need these empty word . word will not stop their bleeding , they will not stop their killing , they will not nourish their body and they will not stop the tear of their mother . I agree with the Secretary of State that even recognise the state of Palestine today would not make any difference to the child on the ground , so will he take a tangible step and propose a British - lead , internationally support hospital in Gaza , in partnership with a coalition of the willing , to provide some remnant of humanity in this darkest of hour ? notwithstanding the huge humanitarian catastrophe that be take place in Gaza , I be proud of the work of UK - Med , the funding we have be able to give it and the extra money that I have announce today , and that medical aid be get through to relieve some suffering . however , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we will continue to do more , and I reassure he that I be work with my jordanian counterpart , in particular , to see what more we can do to alleviate that suffer . aid should be a lifeline in humanitarian crisis , yet it have become a death trap for Gazans . People be starve , yet one of the only way they can get food be to risk their life by go to an aid distribution point run by the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation . do the Secretary of State agree that we be see the militarisation of aid , and we can not let that set a precedent ? may I press he far on his conversation with the israeli Government and the US Government on bring the operation of the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation to an end ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the issue of aid worker . the widespread loss of life among aid worker be a travesty . it be unprecedented . I remind colleague of chapter 2 of " the Conduct of Hostilities " , the handbook for legal practitioner in international humanitarian law , which say that distinction lie at the heart of international humanitarian law and require party to armed conflict to distinguish at all time between civilian — include , of course , aid worker — and combatant . it be a travesty what we have see take place over the last two and a half year . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and for his thoughtful use of word on a very contentious issue . the late report of attack on the Druze people indicate that hundred of Druze civilian , include woman and child , have be kidnap , torture , rape , execute and mutilate , with Christians suffer at their side . despite the fact that they be fight back , there be a real and valid fear of genocide of those people , who have a strong faith and , as such , be worthy of our protection . what can the Government and the Foreign Secretary do to secure peace and hope for those people , who be currently be target and need aid urgently ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for name the Druze , who have see awful atrocity visit on they in the last few day , and the position of minority in Syria . I see that the Pope comment — unusually , in the strong term — on what he have see . I reassure the hon . Gentleman that I raise these issue with the syrian leader myself , urge he to act and say that there must be accountability as he grip the entirety of his country . of course , these incident be also take place under the Assad regime , and in some way have be go on for a long time , but the suffering that be be work on minority in Syria at this time be totally unacceptable . the situation face Gazans be truly catastrophic . we must secure a ceasefire as soon as possible , with all hostage free and unhindered access to aid . our experience in Northern Ireland show that to build a long - term , sustainable peace we need to invest in civil society and peacebuilder , to create a consensus and to change opinion for the well . will my right hon . friend therefore tell we what the UK Government be do to support the international fund for israeli - palestinian peace ? I reassure my hon . friend that british taxpayer be fund NGOs that work across community . we be support that work on the west bank and in Gaza . we be support accountability , because that be no . 1 when we look at some of the injustice be work . we will continue to do that work , include with the international humanitarian fund . there be no red line . every single allegation make by the israeli Government about the crime commit by Hamas have be re - enact and execute — for example , kill of innocent people , behead of baby , burn of baby alive , rape , and hostage - taking , include of many hundred of doctor . now we be actually see child be shoot in the genital . there be game be play by the IDF . there be no red line . will the Foreign Secretary please tell we from the Dispatch Box : what be the red line ? what will cause this Government to take proactive step ? what the hon . Gentleman mention fall into the category of the assessment that I make back in September last year that there be a clear risk of a breach of international humanitarian law . it be on that legal advice , and the quasi - legal position that I take , that I make sure that nothing we do in this country could be complicit in such action . I want to give he that reassurance . he paint a vivid picture . it be unimaginable that the suffering have go on for as long as it have . the suffering of civilian in Gaza have reach horrific level . Israel ' s aid delivery model have fail to meet humanitarian need . as a mother , I can not bear to watch child be murder . my constituent can not bear to watch . I welcome the statement , but what be the Government do to deliver the three action that my constituent want to see they deliver : a UN - lead ceasefire , the release of hostage and a credible pathway to a two - state solution ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention all three of those thing . we be work for a ceasefire , although it be my assessment that we probably will not get one now before the Knesset rise . we be absolutely work to get the hostage out . I have call to mind opinion in Israel that want to see a ceasefire to get those hostage out ; I remind the israeli Government of that , and I do so again when I speak to the Minister . the aid situation be abominable . that there be truck wait at the border be totally reprehensible . as I say , I be guide by the practitioner ' handbook on breach of international humanitarian law , war crime , the duty of care , proportionality and distinction , particularly in theatre of conflict , and I be deeply troubled that these seem to be be breach . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s announcement of additional aid to help the people of Gaza , but it be aid that will join the million of dollar and thousand of truck that be stand outside the border not be allow into Gaza . there be 1 million child in Gaza starve to death . palestinian child be our child . we must do everything in our power to get food to they . some 85 % of the population be face a level 5 starvation assessment , so — please — what step will the UK Government and the Foreign Secretary take to feed our child in Palestine ? I be grateful for the way in which the hon . Gentleman have put his remark . he know that in the occupy territory , Israel control who get in and who get out . he know that the last time we see a ceasefire , we see a rapid escalation of humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza . that be far from the situation today . we be able , work with the UN system , to get some WFP truck in — an increase over the last few week — and our EU colleague have be do a considerable amount with the israeli Government to increase the amount of truck . be it sufficient ? no , it be not , and we therefore remain deeply worried about malnourished child , notwithstanding the statement that have be make in this Chamber about child whose life have be take away from they as they have wait for aid because of the system that have be put in place . as the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) touch on , the situation in Gaza be all the more infuriating when we hear that the UN have three month - worth of food wait in warehouse on the border , while it be report that 19 people die of starvation just in the last 24 hour . I be grateful for all that the Foreign Secretary have do so far on this issue , and I know that he agree with I that the war must end now , but what be the next action that we need to take to make that a reality ? we have to bring about that ceasefire , and we have to do all we can to alleviate the suffering . that be what I set out in my statement today , but I remain as frustrated as my hon . friend be that this war be not over . the Foreign Secretary have be kind enough to meet I a number of time over this year , so he know well my constituent ' feeling about this conflict . they be concerned and disgust by the sight of the mass killing and starvation of the Gazan people , but they be also frustrate by the lack of medical care and humanitarian aid . the Foreign Secretary know that I have many surgical colleague work in Gaza and who have work in Gaza , include Dr Mohammed Mustafa , who — alongside the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the australian Government — be desperately seek to get a maternity hospital care for woman and child into Gaza . will the Foreign Secretary lend his support and the support of his office to this endeavour ? yes , absolutely . I be grateful for all the work that my hon . friend have do , and his background in medicine help to bring these issue to public attention . accord to the UN , nearly 800 Palestinians have be kill near the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation aid point . the UK send £ 129 million in aid be nearly pointless give the denial of the UN ' s aid system , and Israel ' s cruel blockade be choke off supply to the people who need it and look very much like starvation as a weapon of war . the RAF break a previous blockade with airdrop month ago , and although we welcome the additional £ 40 million of medical aid that have be promise today , and today ' s international statement , Israel have reject such appeal . so I ask again , please , what be the additional step that the Foreign Secretary tell the Foreign Affairs Committee we would take to break this cruel blockade and get aid to those desperately in need ? my hon . friend will have hear the statement that I make today on the extra step that we be take in term of humanitarian aid . he will have see the statement , make by 31 international partner , on the fact that this war must come to an end and that aid must get in . he be right to condemn the aid system . we warn Israel about reduce the aid point to four , and now we be see the horror in front of our eye . I remind Israel again about its obligation to international humanitarian law and my worry that they be be breach . we rightly re - funded UNRWA , but since then aid have become a daily death trap and starvation be widespread . our call for a ceasefire only see the last one get break . now , as my right hon . friend have point out , the chilling order to forcibly displace an entire population of 2 million people have be condemn by ex - israeli pm Ehud Barak . what more concrete action be we take to stop the man - make destruction of Gaza — 35 hospital , as well as hostage , soldier and civilian — before our very eye ? history will not judge this well , and word be not work . we stand with the international community in all our effort . in term of what come next , we support the arab plan . we be work with arab partner to improve that plan and to get to the day after , which we can get to if we get that ceasefire . Gaza be face catastrophic , famine - like condition and people be die in appalling circumstance . the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation be fundamentally fail to properly distribute adequate humanitarian aid and be turn distribution into another frontline in Gaza . what action be the Foreign Secretary take to ensure that UN NGOs can get into Gaza and deliver the humanitarian aid that Gazans desperately need ? I can reassure my hon . friend that I speak to the UN about this last week . we be work with the UN , and I be pleased that the World Food Programme be able to get some extra truck in . we will continue to work closely with the UN , because we believe that it must be a fundamental part of the system that distribute aid to the people of Gaza . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and I note the agreement reach with the 30 other nation . however , as we know , Israel have already reject it . it seem to I that Israel be become more and more emboldened by the lack of concrete action by the international community . while people starve or be kill while queue for food , and while those shelter in the Caritas Jerusalem shelter be bomb at the weekend , it really do begin to look as though there be genocide unfold before our eye . I realise that the Foreign Secretary will want to take a legalistic view of that , but to those of we look at it from a moral and logical point of view , there can be no other word for it . although I understand and I agree with the Foreign Secretary that recognise the state of Palestine will not bring this to an end , it would at least give the people of Palestine something to cling on to and some hope , so can we please not discount the opportunity to raise that issue , but advocate for it and declare that we regard Palestine as a state ? in my experience , my hon . friend choose her word carefully , and the whole House will have hear what she have say this afternoon . I reassure she that , in my discussion with the Jordanians , the Saudi Arabians , the Qataris , the Emiratis and the Egyptians , and indeed with Prime Minister Mustafa , we of course discuss the recognition issue , as we have be do with our french colleague . the israeli Government ' s unrelenting denial of aid to civilian be turn an entire population of Palestinians to skin and bone , starve they to death . as kid die , the israeli Government be push ahead in defiance with their humanitarian plan for Gaza — a plan that have be describe as a " concentration camp " by the former israeli Prime Minister . can I press the Foreign Secretary to enforce further sanction , and can he lay out what tangible pressure this Government be put on Israel to stop use hunger as a weapon of war ? I reassure my hon . friend that , as he would expect , I raise these issue with Israel on a regular basis , and I raise that issue with Israel this morning . inhumanity be a red line draw by international law and underwrite by universal human right . in Gaza , that red line have not just be break ; it have be ignore , betray and erase . the Foreign Secretary tell we that Netanyahu be not listen — in fact , he be put his middle finger up to the UK Government . will the Foreign Secretary send military personnel to protect Palestinians from the genocide be commit by the IDF ? I recognise the strength of feeling that my hon . friend convey to the Chamber . I list all the thing we be do . I think the most important thing that the UK Government can do be press to get that ceasefire , press to get an alleviation of the suffering , and , of course , to do everything we can to see the hostage return . I just want to be clear on the Government ' s legal position . on 11 June last year , the Government report that they see " no serious risk of genocide " in Gaza . all this time on , and after the statement that the Foreign Secretary have make , can I be clear : be he say tonight that the Government accept that there be a plausible risk of genocide ? if he be not , will he instruct his official to undertake an immediate review and report to member as rapidly as possible ? if there be a plausible risk of genocide , that would place legal duty on the Government — and all of we , I believe — to act accordingly . as we have see in the past when we have have rogue state , like South Africa , the good form of bring they to heel be financial sanction . if the Foreign Secretary meet the finance house and bank in this country and they deny credit line to israeli bank , that would be probably the most effective thing we could do to bring the israeli Government to their sense . I refer the right hon . gentleman to the statement I make back in September and the addendum to that statement , which set out the basis on which I have judge that there be a clear risk to international humanitarian law . he know that the long - establish position be that it be for the international court to make any determination of genocide . our assessment be there be a clear risk of a breach of international humanitarian law . I call Cat Eccles . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — [ interruption . ] order — Cat Eccles . the people of Gaza be be starve to death despite UNRWA have enough supply to feed the population for three month . it be not a matter of logistic ; it be sheer cruelty . ghf ration centre be purposely locate in the south in militarise zone with sporadic opening hour and sudden closure , leave people with no option but to make that long journey on foot and wait many hour on the off - chance that supply may become available — or they may be kill while try . this be not just a genocide ; it be now ethnic cleansing . when Israel ' s Government be ignore call from 31 country , what further action can we take ? as my hon . friend have hear , what we be see be inhumane , it be deadly and it be deprive Gazans of human dignity . as she would expect , the Government , work with our partner , keep everything under further consideration . we see the brutality and bloodshed in Gaza every single night on our screen . it be disproportionate and horrific , and it have go on for far too long — bomb , bullet and now the blockade . there can never be any justification for shoot people while they wait and queue for aid . I know that the Secretary of State share my desire for peace , a two - state solution , an immediate ceasefire and the flow of aid into Gaza . will he share what he be do to help achieve that ? my hon . friend be right : there can be no justification for shoot people as they be queue for food — none whatsoever . I reassure he that we continue to work with the UN system and with close partner like Jordan to do all we can to alleviate the suffering . infected Blood Inquiry : Additional Report the infected blood inquiry ' s additional report be publish on 9 July , and today I would like to provide the House with an initial response . I be grateful to Sir Brian Langstaff for seek justice for victim and for the inquiry ' s constructive additional report . his ambition be to ensure that fair compensation be provide without delay to every person who be eligible , and that resonate across the country . before consider the detail of the report , I want to share the late delivery figure from the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . as of 15 July , IBCA have contact 2 , 215 people to begin their claim , and 1 , 934 have start the claim process ; 808 offer have be make , to a total value of over £ 602 million ; and 587 people have accept their offer , and over £ 411 million have be pay in compensation . that mean approximately 60 % of infected people register with a support scheme have be contact to begin their claim . I be pleased that progress be be make , but I acknowledge the call from the community for fast payment . that be why the Government write to the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee last month outline the step we be take to remove administrative barrier to IBCA speed up payment . I be also pleased to announce further interim payment of £ 210 , 000 to the estate of infected people who be register to an infected blood support scheme and who have sadly pass away . that be in addition to the more than 500 interim payment that have already be pay , on which I will provide further information as soon as I be able to do so . the Government be commit to provide fair compensation to victim of the infected blood scandal and in the autumn Budget we set aside £ 11 . 8 billion to do that . the inquiry have recognise the Government ' s commitment , say : " there can be no doubt that the Government have do right in way which powerfully signal its intent . " however , I agree with Sir Brian ' s statement that " there be still more to be do to ensure that the detail and operation of the scheme match up to its intent . " Sir Brian have make a number of recommendation on way the compensation scheme could be amend to achieve a scheme that work for everyone . we will publish an update on gov . uk today set out the Government ' s approach to the inquiry ' s further recommendation . I will deposit a copy of that update in the Libraries of both Houses . we will also provide a comprehensive response to all the recommendation in due course . the report include several recommendation for ibca on speed and transparency . I reiterate that the Government still expect IBCA to contact all register infected people to begin a claim , and to open the service for affected people , by the end of this year . the announcement I be about to make do not change that position . on Friday , Sir Robert Francis and David Foley confirm that they will accept the recommendation that the inquiry make to ibca . they have commit to work with the community to develop plan for design and implement those recommendation . ibca will design and introduce a process for registration . it will also update its sequence in line with the inquiry ' s recommendation , note that that will inform the order in which it open up to cohort this year . ibca will introduce a process for prioritisation , recognise that community involvement be need in tackle any uncertainty that may be introduce . alongside that , I have ask for a review of ibca ' s delivery of the scheme to ensure that it progress as quickly as possible . that will be support by the National Infrastructure and Service Transformation Authority and lead by an independent reviewer . I expect the review to begin in August . the inquiry have make recommendation across nine key area to ensure that infected and affected people feel that they have overall be compensate fairly by a scheme that be design and deliver with their input . separate to the delivery of compensation by IBCA , the inquiry have make recommendation relate to the design and structure of the scheme . the Government will accept , and implement as soon as we can , seven of those sub - recommendation , so that ibca can get on with pay compensation . other will require engagement with the community before change be make , in line with the spirit of the inquiry ' s report . when I give evidence to the inquiry in May , I say that I would take a constructive approach and look at the issue that have be put to I . the inquiry have make eight sub - recommendation in those area , and I be pleased to confirm to the House that I will either accept they or agree with the inquiry that the community should be consult on next step . I can confirm that we will remove the 1982 start date for HIV infection to ensure that anyone infect because of infected blood or infected blood product with HIV be eligible for the scheme regardless of the infection date . we accept the inquiry ' s recommendation on affected estate ; in fact , I will go far than the recommendation . the inquiry recommend that if an eligible affected person have sadly die or die between 21 May 2024 and 31 December 2029 , their claim do not die with they but become part of the estate . I will extend that by a further two year until 31 December 2031 . the special category mechanism have be a concern for member of the community and for this House . again , I promise the House that I would consider it , and I be pleased to say that we accept that change be need to acknowledge the special category mechanism as part of the supplementary route severe health condition award . we will engage with the community on how good to realise those change . another area that I commit to consider be the reinstatement of support payment to partner bereave after 31 March 2025 until they have receive compensation . again , I accept that recommendation . I will ensure that those impact will also be able to continue receive those payment as part of their compensation package . unethical research be one of the most shocking aspect of this scandal . I can also confirm to the House that we will consult on revise the approach for the additional autonomy award on unethical research , include the scope and value of the award . a number of hon . member have raise that with I . the final area that I say I would consider be whether further supplementary route for affected people could be introduce . the inquiry recommend that we consult to understand the feasibility of their implementation , alongside change in the exceptional financial loss award . I agree with the inquiry that consideration should be give to those issue , and consideration rightly involve those impact . in addition , we be accept further inquiry recommendation to remove the requirement for evidence of the date of diagnosis for hepatitis B or C , which we hope may allow claim for those mono - infect with hepatitis to be process more quickly . by accept those recommendation , we can start to implement the necessary change as soon as possible . there be several recommendation on area in which change to the scheme be need . we intend to engage with the community on how good to achieve they . the inquiry be clear : people impact by decision need to be involve in they , and that be what we will seek to do before implement the change in the scheme . that include act on recommendation regard compensation for the impact of Interferon . we will introduce a new core route infection severity band for those who receive Interferon treatment , and consult on the evidence requirement and threshold for a supplementary route award for severe psychological harm . additionally , we will work with ibca to introduce a mechanism that individual can use to raise concern to aid continuous improvement of the scheme . as I be sure hon . member understand , to do that the Government will need to make further regulation . our top priority be to move quickly , so to make some of the simple change , we will bring forward a set of regulation as soon as parliamentary time allow . those regulation will not implement all the policy change recommend by the inquiry . in evidence to the inquiry in May , I say that I be open to change that do not lead to further delay . I believe that make these change recommend by the inquiry will not delay the speed at which offer be currently be make . a further set of regulation will be need to implement the more substantial change , particularly those for which we be take time to engage the community on how those update can be realise . I therefore expect this second , more substantial set of regulation to be bring before Parliament in 2026 , but — and I really emphasise this to hon . member — we do not expect this engagement to cause delay to the roll - out of the compensation scheme as it currently stand , which be absolutely crucial , as I say to the inquiry . we be respond swiftly and constructively to Sir Brian , and put the voice and need of the community first . I will also provide a further update on the Government ' s response to the 2024 report . I have continue to engage with the charity name by the inquiry in recommendation 10 . I recognise their concern about the allocate funding , and can confirm that the Department for Health and Social Care be re - examine funding for this year and will look at option for the future . with regard to recommendation 2 on memorialisation , I be pleased to announce that , follow engagement with the community , Clive Smith have be appoint as chair of the memorial committee . I be delighted to be able to appoint a chair with his wealth of experience , and I be confident he will be able to bring the community together to make great progress on this work . the Government have make progress in implement the recommendation , but progress be never a foregone conclusion . Sir Brian be clear about the importance of scrutinise progress in deliver what the Government have commit to , and I agree . I be pleased to confirm that I have ask the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee to take on the role of scrutinise implementation of the inquiry ' s recommendation in the May 2024 and July 2025 report . it be for the Committee to outline how it will approach that work , but I trust that it will see fit to follow the example of the inquiry through scrutiny of the design and delivery of compensation . in addition , today I be publish a record of inquiry recommendation and the Government response on gov . uk , as promise in our response to the recommendation of the Grenfell Tower inquiry . those record will be periodically update to show implementation progress , and will include all recommendation of future inquiry . to conclude , I quote directly from Sir Brian ' s report , which he end by state : " truly involve people infect and affect in how the state recognise their loss would start to turn the page on the past . " he be absolutely right . our focus as we move forward must be on work together with the community , with ibca , and indeed with each other in this House , not only to deliver justice to all those impact , but , essentially , to restore trust in the state among people who have be let down too many time . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his statement and for advance sight of it . on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , I thank Sir Brian Langstaff for his initial work on the inquiry and for all his follow - up work . this additional report , focus on compensation , be a significant and thorough piece of work that have be do in good time . our thank also go to those work at the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to get the money out to those who desperately need it . I know that my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) welcome the valuable insight that he gain from his recent visit to the team on the ground in Tyneside . above all , we pay tribute to the victim , the family and the campaigner who have fight relentlessly and bravely on this issue . I have previously raise in the House the concern of victim and their family about the speed and structure of the compensation scheme . they have be repeatedly frustrate by a failure to speed up payment . although there be sign that the pace be finally start to increase , I know that their frustration remain , and we share they . this scandal happen over decade , under successive government of different party , but we all have a responsibility to do what we can to right the wrong of the past as quickly as possible , and the opposition will support the government when they be do the right thing in do so . I have also raise the issue of engagement and call on the Government to far solidify ongoing consultation and communication with victim and their family . it be disappointing to see that , as Sir Brian lay out in his additional report , sufficient progress have not yet be make on that . I welcome the Government ' s response on that matter , but I urge they to ensure that that engagement work be carry out rapidly and urgently . victim and their family deserve real action and , as the additional report make clear , they have have far too many assurance but not yet enough substantial engagement . I be pleased that the Government be now take action on some of the issue relate to atypical personal or health impact and supplementary route , which I raise when we discuss the infected blood compensation scheme regulation in March . I know that will bring great comfort to many of those who have be infect with the disease mention . I appreciate that the Government be take forward Sir Brian ' s recommendation on a grievance mechanism , and I be certain that across this House we all hope that implementation of this recommendation and the other from the report will meet the term of reference of Sir Brian ' s inquiry and will complete the compensation and resolution process . however , the Government must ensure that this mechanism be an active one , not simply a record device . while it be incredibly important that lesson be continuously learn from this tragedy , it be also really important that those case that contain difficulty with regard to compensation eligibility — which we know make up a significant proportion — be address as a matter of urgency , and that all such case , many of which will probably come through this new mechanism , be consider carefully , and that all information on the claim status and decision make on it be communicate clearly and frequently to the complainant . above all , learn those lesson must not come at the cost of delay payment to those who simply can not afford to wait any long . to that end , I would appreciate the Minister ' s clarity on the number of personnel whom he expect to be task with the grievance mechanism and the oversight structure that will be put in place over it . will that be the advisory board be establish and , if so , what specific oversight power will the advisory board have ? we support the Government in take these measure forward , and we will do what we can as the official Opposition to help these action be implement , but it be incredibly important that the Government be clear to this House what measure they be put in place to ensure that the step announce here today be carry through and enact efficiently and effectively . no amount of money can undo the harm that be tragically inflict on so many , but a comprehensive and effective compensation scheme can offer a lifeline to victim and their family who have suffer far too much for far too long . I thank the shadow Minister for his contribution and , in particular , for its tone . the cross - party way in which this have be approach have be crucial — I take that approach in opposition . I pay tribute to my predecessor as Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , for the work he do in drive this forward . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that this additional report be a very significant piece of work , and I echo his thank to ibca ' s staff . on the speed of payment , the hon . Gentleman refer to the number of payment and of course IBCA have use the " test and learn " approach , but I want to tell the House that I have announce today a substantial number of change to this scheme , but it have to be on the basis that that will not affect the current speed of roll - out of payment . that be why I still expect IBCA to contact all register infected people to begin a claim before the end of the year , and indeed to open the service to affected people by the end of the year . I also agree with the hon . Gentleman about the need for an active consultation mechanism , and I entirely agree about clarity of communication . I very much hope that we can continue this cross - party spirit into the delivery phase as that be so important . victim , survivor and campaigner have be fight for decade for truth and justice due to cover - up by public servant . last year , the Prime Minister call for a duty of candour law to prevent future cover - up , such as the infected blood and Post Office scandal , and I could not agree more . but if we be to restore trust in the state , do the Minister agree that it be high time for a Hillsborough law to be implement in full , as promise by the Prime Minister last September ? I entirely agree on the need for a Hillsborough law , and I say to my hon . friend that this Government be absolutely determined to get it right and to lead that culture of change that we need across public service so that people be not put their own reputation or the reputation of institution above public service . we be determined to lead that change . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for his statement . we , too , pay tribute to Sir Brian Langstaff and his team for their ongoing work as they continue to investigate this appalling scandal . liberal Democrats know that the victim of the infected blood scandal deserve compensation . they and their family have be mistreat and have be wait for decade to see justice . we welcome the establishment of this scheme in August 2024 and the commitment show by government from both side of the House to justice for these victim . however , Sir Brian Langstaff ' s additional report have be excoriate about the glacial pace of payment and the abject failure to listen to victim . one of the report ' s most scathing finding state that victim of the scandal have " not be listen to " . as Sir Brian have report , the expert who be responsible for the design of the compensation scheme be forbid to talk with victim and their family . after so many year of secrecy , deceit and delay , exclude victim and their family be wholly unacceptable . this report have be welcome by many victim , include many of the 122 haemophiliac boy who attend the Lord Mayor Treloar college in Hampshire . my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) have be a powerful advocate for these victim , and I thank she for her work advocate for constituent such as Gary , who welcome the finding of this report . that be why we be urge the Government to set out clearly and in detail the timeline for deliver compensation . we be call on the Government to engage properly with victim and their family . do the Minister agree that it be entirely unacceptable that victim be not involve in the original design of the scheme and that they have be consistently ignore ? when can victim of the scandal expect the implementation of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation to introduce a formal advisory body of victim for the Infected Blood Compensation Authority ? in relation to transparency on the expert group establish under my predecessor , I entirely acknowledge Sir Brian Langstaff ' s criticism and point on that . the Government be now go to have to create new set of regulation , and clearly I will have to reconstitute an expert group , but I give the House an undertaking that transparency will be at the heart of that group , include publication of its work and its minute , because that be essential to regain trust . the hon . Lady be also absolutely right about how essential it be to put the voice of victim at the heart of what we be do , but I would also say to the House , in relation to today , that at the autumn Budget last year the Chancellor set aside £ 11 . 8 billion of funding to the end of the Parliament to pay compensation for victim , and the policy decision that I be announce today be currently estimate to cost around £ 1 billion in further compensation payment . the total cost depend on what be agree follow consultation with the community , but the Government have say — and we will stand by this — that we will pay what it take to fund the scheme , and we will update the forecast cost at the autumn Budget of 2025 . but victim should be in no doubt of the Government ' s determination to seek justice . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . follow the inquiry ' s report , will the Government now speed up the current timeline of 2027 and 2029 for the payment of compensation to victim ? the 2027 and 2029 date be backstop . my determination be for payment to be make as soon as possible . I hope that what I have say to the House about offer of payment , and indeed payment start , to affected people this year be an indication of that speed up . I welcome what the Paymaster General have say about remove administrative burden to payment and accept the recommendation , and his commitment to work with the community and do so in a timely way . I know that he will continue to devote his considerable energy to those thing . could he also say a word more about memorial ? I be think particularly of the young victim from Treloar . I welcome what he say about the appointment of a chair to that committee , but be there a timeline for that ; obviously there be sensitive matter to deal with , but give the passage of time do he have a timeframe in mind for its completion ? the right hon . Gentleman raise the issue of Treloar ' s , which be in his constituency . he speak very powerfully . I have also speak in recent week to a former Treloar ' s student . hear about the experience there never fail to move people . I be pleased to have appoint Clive Smith — that have already be do — and I be ask he to progress that memorialisation work , first , quickly , because the right hon . Gentleman be right about the passage of time , and secondly , in a way that bring the whole community together . clive have set out his intention to appoint a vice - chair to represent the whole blood transfusion community . I welcome that effort to bring the community together in what will be a very emotional memorialisation . I thank the Minister for his statement . the infected blood scandal be the bad treatment disaster in NHS history , but as the inquiry ' s chair say : " this disaster be not an accident " . institutional reputation be put above truth and ordinary people pay the price . it be far from alone — there be Horizon , nuclear test veteran , Grenfell and Hillsborough . a Hillsborough law would end the culture of cover - up , which be why victim and family , include those from the infected blood scandal , fully support it . the Prime Minister promise that one of his first act would be to introduce that legislation , but one year on we be still wait . do the Minister recognise the importance of fulfil that pledge before Labour return to Liverpool for the party conference in September ? I absolutely understand the importance of introduce the duty of candour to which my hon . friend refer , as I indicate in my answer to my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) . Sir Brian Langstaff talk about the " pervasive " culture — the concept of people put their own or institutional reputation above the public interest . the Government be determined to change that and to get the duty of candour right by work with the family , which I think be absolutely crucial . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on HIV , AIDS and sexual health , I very much welcome the removal of the 1982 start date . coincidentally , today be Zero HIV Stigma Day , so it be important to recognise the stigma that many people suffer as a result of contract HIV through infected blood . I hope that one of the supplementary route to compensation might be to those who suffer extreme stigma and discrimination , or severe psychiatric consequence from the contraction of HIV . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his comment about the removal of the 1982 date . I promise in my evidence to the inquiry to look at that , so I be pleased to remove it . he be absolutely right about stigma ; I visit the Terrence Higgins Trust in recent week , and listen to the terrible stigma that people suffer be extraordinarily move . he be right to remind we of that , and as we move forward with try to deliver justice , we should all keep that at the forefront of our mind . on behalf of the APPG on haemophilia and contaminate blood , I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . it be a major step forward . as he know , the issue of engagement with the affected and infected community have be a major bone of contention since the expert group set the tariff . for over 40 year , that community have be ignore and lie to by the state , which should have be on their side . when Sir Brian Langstaff publish his recent report , he say : " for decade people who suffer because of infected blood have not be listen to . once again decision have be make behind closed door lead to obvious injustice . " my right hon . Friend say that he will accept most of the recommendation , but if he be go to consult , he must consult with the community . will he guarantee that he will set up a proper mechanism that will be approve by the community , and that he will provide financial support to those organisation that be give advice to victim who be make claim ? first , on consultation , my hon . friend be right . I be determined that we be go to get this right . secondly , as I indicate in my statement with regard to the organisation and recommendation 10 of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s May 2024 report , DHSC be look not only at this year again , but to the future . my work in recent week speak to charity have make it clear that they want to look beyond this financial year , and I agree . I , too , thank the Minister for his statement , in particular the fact that IBCA will design and introduce a process for registration . Sir Brian Langstaff conclude that the current approach to compensation perpetuate harm by create different treatment for registered and unregistered victim . can the Minister confirm whether that include interim payment for unregistered victim , which be another recommendation in Sir Brian Langstaff ' s additional report ? in relation to registration , as the hon . Gentleman will have see , IBCA have accept all of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation , include that one . with regard to the estate of those who have sadly pass away , I have just , from the Dispatch Box , extend interim payment , and I hope to be able to announce the timetable for that very soon . the very fact that Sir Brian Langstaff reopen the scheme for the additional report bear testimony to the fact that there be something sadly wrong with the initial scheme . I be wonder whether the infected blood victim will be warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , or whether they will be a bit apprehensive , frustrated or disappoint because the Government have say that they will accept , at this point , only seven of the nine recommendation . only 460 victim have settle to date , but many other have sadly pass on . can my right hon . friend clarify what will happen to those wait to start their claim ? they be the Tuesday night lottery club — they have be wait for month for a phone call to tell they that they will get an invitation to apply for compensation . will new invite be put on hold while ibca revisit the settle claim ? be it still a priority to start all live infect claim by the end of the year ? the answer be yes , absolutely . I would not have make such a substantial number of change without assurance that it would not delay the ongoing payment . IBCA have say that there will be offer to all the living register infect by the end of the year . that be unchanged by the change I have make to the scheme today . the promise that we make to start the affected by the end of the year also stand . as I say a moment ago , IBCA have accept the recommendation about registration . it have also accept Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation about cohort prioritisation and be look at that . I hope that my hon . friend , who be a powerful advocate on these matter , will see that have say at the inquiry that I would look constructively at these issue , that be precisely what I have do . on the recommendation where we be consult , that be precisely because I want the voice of the community to be hear . it be in 2015 that I first raise the case of my constituent , Lesley Hughes , who be infect with contaminate blood in 1970 and discover the reason for four decade of ill health in only about 2010 , so it be great that this progress have be make . very large sum of money will be pay in compensation , so can the Minister outline what provision there will be for the recipient to receive financial advice to make sure that they be not take advantage of by unscrupulous people — for example , people try to tell they how to make a claim that they can make directly ? I agree entirely with the right hon . Gentleman about that risk . I have be very conscious of that , which be why the Government have sign off financial support for both legal advice and financial advice . for the reason that he say , that be crucial . the Minister have hear I talk about my constituent Brendan West , a veteran who live unknowingly with hepatitis c for decade after be infect through a military blood transfusion . brendan talk about how he feel lucky to be alive , but his view be that successive government continue to delay justice for he by design . Brendan have just receive an invitation to start the process for compensation , which I welcome , but how long can he expect that process to take ? he have serve our country and suffer a horrific injustice in the process , and he deserve to be able to not waste a single further day in live out the next chapter of his life . I say to my hon . friend , who have raise her constituent ' s case before , that ibca be operationally independent , but I stand ready to give any support that be require to speed up claim , which I think be crucial . there be absolutely no deliberate delay from the Government in term of the money be pay . some £ 11 . 8 billion be allocate in the autumn Budget , and I have just announce a series of measure worth around £ 1 billion . that be the commitment of this government to secure justice , and I will continue to do all I can to speed up payment . as far as I can see , some of the Paymaster General ' s announcement and his acceptance of some of the recommendation and sub - recommendation will cause devolve administrative body to have to stay open for a long period . I believe they be initially schedule to close on 1 February 2026 , but they will now have to stay open for long than that . I seek his reassurance that he will ensure that all the cost will be meet by the Treasury and that there will be no divergence between the support give to those infected or affect anywhere across the United Kingdom , as there be previously due to the work start by the inquiry . the hon . Gentleman make a perfectly reasonable point . I speak on Thursday to the Health Ministers of all three of the devolved administration , include Minister Nesbitt in the Northern Ireland Executive . the hon . Gentleman be right that the scheme for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland will stay open for a further year . that have be do to make sure that we can keep up the pace of payment at IBCA , but I give he the reassurance , which I give to the Health Ministers , that that will be fund by the UK Government . we be not ask the devolved administration to bear the cost of that . the Minister know that I have raise the case of my affected constituent Ronan , whose mother Jane die from hepatitis C after a blood transfusion she be recommend follow an ectopic pregnancy . I welcome the announcement on the affected estate , but when will the affected , particularly parent and partner , be invite to start their claim ? many have be wait decade for justice and be concerned that they will not see it in their lifetime . my hon . friend make a very good point . in the first instance , as I have say , payment to the affected will start by the end of the year ; that remain the case . there have be concern about the affected estate , and I hope that my hon . friend will have see that I not only accept the recommendation , but extend it by a further two year to try to give that reassurance . I thank the Minister — and the Government , because ultimately he be do this on their behalf — very much for his statement ; no one can doubt his commitment , and we thank he very much for that . it be always good to hear that movement have be make on compensation , to make it as fast as possible . will the Minister reconsider the rejection of the recommendation by Sir Robert Francis of an enhance award for people with extrahepatic disorder result in long - term severe disability , include people currently include in the special category mechanism and its equivalent in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland ? also , he refer to substantial regulation be make in 2026 ; can they come forward in 2025 ? on the first point , as I have just say , we have acknowledge Sir Brian Langstaff ' s criticism on the special category mechanism . that be why I be take action on that and announce that today . in relation to the very specific condition that the hon . Gentleman talk about — I think he be refer back to Sir Robert Francis ' s previous report — I be certainly happy to write to he on that particular detail . the first set of regulation that I have speak about will be bring forward before the end of the year . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . one of my constituent , who be now in her 80 , care for her husband , who be a victim of unethical research in Edinburgh . her son now fear that she will die before receive recognition or redress for what she endure . do my right hon . friend recognise that there be a real fear that carer of infected people will die wait for their compensation ? if so , what step will the Government take to ensure that carer reach the end of their life can be prioritise for compensation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and that be why I have change the scheme in respect of affected estate . Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation be for those who sadly pass away between May 2024 and 2029 , and I have extend that by two year to 2031 for precisely the reason that she raise . I thank the Minister for his statement , which be the right response to a very thorough report that yet again detail the significant size of the scandal we be try to undo . he mention the level of increase payment that these measure will lead to , and I think he mention a figure of £ 1 billion . will additional resource be give to deliver the recommendation , in addition to extra payment ? I just give my hon . friend the reassurance that the Government have say that they will pay what it take to fund the scheme . we will then update the forecast cost at the autumn Budget this year . I thank the Paymaster General for his statement . I think the heart of all of we across the House go out to the victim of this terrible scandal and their family . as somebody who see a family member die of AIDS , I know how incredibly difficult that must have be for many of they . do the Minister agree that the common thread in the infected blood scandal , the Post Office scandal , Hillsborough and the pelvic mesh scandal — the one that come across my desk the most — be that victim be not listen to ? he mention the need to consult on the recommendation . how will he go about that consultation ? can he assure I that it will be thorough ? my hon . friend speak very powerfully about his own personal experience . he be entirely right about a consistent failure on behalf of the state over many decade on many scandal that have be debate in this House and on which we have listen to victim . get the consultation right and ensure that we hear the voice of victim and the community be crucial to the Government . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 8 July , I write to the Home Secretary regard the implementation of the proscription order against Palestine Action . I write to she ask whether any guidance be be issue to the police on the implementation of that proscription , and in particular whether or not the expression of opposition to the proscription fall foul of the proscription order itself . that include both reporter report those who be oppose to the proscription or indeed any Member of Parliament express opposition to it . I ask whether that would be construe as support for Palestine Action , and would therefore be actionable . I have receive no response , so through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and maybe through those on the Treasury Bench , it would be helpful to urge the Home Secretary to reply or to issue a statement . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order . it be important that member receive timely answer to their correspondence . I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note the right hon . member ' s remark , and will no doubt respond forthwith . Bill present Transport for London ( Extension of Concessions ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Andrew Rosindell , support by Gareth Bacon , Dr Neil Hudson , Alex Burghart , Lewis Cocking , Joy Morrissey , Mr Gagan Mohindra , David Simmonds , Peter Fortune , Chris Philp , Bob Blackman and Julia Lopez , present a Bill to require Transport for London to enable any local authority in England which be serve by a Transport for London route , or by a route to which a tfl concessionary scheme apply , to opt into concessionary fare scheme , include the Freedom Pass ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 31 October , and to be print ( Bill 291 ) . victory over Japan : 80th anniversary colleague will note that this be a very time - limit debate , so I call for brevity from both Front Benchers and Back Benchers , please . I beg to move , that this House have consider the 80th anniversary of victory over Japan . it be an honour to open today ' s debate as we come together as a House and as a country to mark 80 year since victory over Japan , which bring an end to fight in the far east . the anniversary will be commemorate on 15 August . on 15 August 1945 , King George VI deliver a speech to the nation and the Commonwealth , say , " now we shall have to work hard to restore what have be lose , and to establish peace on the unshakable foundation " . eighty year on , we remember the british , Northern Irish and Commonwealth veteran — the second world war generation who give so much , and those who pay the ultimate sacrifice to secure our freedom and peace . to they , we say thank you . VE Day 1945 mark the end of the second world war in Europe , but thousand of british , Northern Irish and Commonwealth troop continue to battle against japanese force in Asia and the Pacific . three month later , victory over Japan be declare on 15 August , follow Japan ' s agreement to surrender unconditionally to the ally . the Prime Minister of the day , Clement Attlee , give a radio broadcast to announce the end of hostility , declare : " Japan have today surrender . the last of our enemy be lay low . " eighty year on , this Government recognise the huge importance of commemorate this anniversary . VJ Day be a moment to reflect on the remarkable perseverance and bravery show by those who fight , or endure , the war in the far east . the human cost of the second world war be overwhelming . it lead to death and destruction for million of people . the dropping of two atomic bomb on japanese city — one on Hiroshima on 6 August and the other three day later on Nagasaki — result in enormous devastation , bring the six - year global conflict to a rapid end and introduce the atomic age . the end of the war bring sadness , relief , and renew hope that family and soldier who have long be separate would soon be reunite . however , it would take month and much effort to bring british service personnel back home . shortly after VE day , we see the liberation of Jersey and Guernsey on 9 May , and Alderney on 16 May . it be a huge honour to visit Jersey and Sark this year for the celebration of the 80th anniversary of Liberation Day . the story of the island be one of perseverance , which I be grateful to hear more about when I attend a number of commemoration event there , but the period of time from May 1945 through to VJ Day on 15 August be a period of suffering . ten of thousand of service personnel from Great Britain , Northern Ireland and the Commonwealth fight and give their life , include thousand of allied troop who be take as prisoner of war and force into hard labour . many ally prisoner of war in japanese captivity die before liberation in August 1945 . those individual experience unimaginable suffering , include starvation and disease , and their memory and sacrifice must not be forget . alongside the british armed force , hundred of thousand serve in the far east from country include pre - partition India , Australia , New Zealand , Canada and Nepal , and from east and west Africa . the British Pacific fleet work in parallel with our US ally , make the second world war an international effort . this year ' s commemoration to mark VJ Day have be , and will continue to be , lead by those with first - hand experience of the war . we acknowledge the importance of this , as this year be likely to be the last significant anniversary at which veteran who serve in the second world war be present . the Government be honour to be work closely with the Royal British Legion to put veteran front and centre of the VJ Day commemoration . I take this opportunity to thank the partner who have work with we throughout this commemorative year , include the Royal British Legion , Imperial War Museums , the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , the National Theatre , Arts Council England , Historic Royal Palaces , the Together Coalition , the Big Lunch , Atlantic Productions , the BBC and the National Lottery Community Fund . I also thank official from the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and from the Ministry of Defence . of course , we have be work across Government , and in particular with the Ministry of Defence . I be join by the Minister for the Armed Forces , and I have work closely with my noble Friend Lord Coaker , who be with we this evening . as live history fade into the past , it be more important than ever that we listen to the story of the remain veteran who fight for their country in that conflict . the diverse army that fight together for our freedom reflect the very fabric of modern Britain . the national commemoration will commence with a Government reception to celebrate and commemorate VJ Day with veteran . on Friday 15 August , the Royal British Legion will lead the nation in honour and remember those who fight and die during the war in the far east , with a service mark the 80th anniversary of VJ Day . that will take place at the National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire and will be broadcast live on BBC one from midday . it will pay tribute to british , northern Irish , Commonwealth and ally veteran who serve in the far east theatre of war , the Pacific and Indian Ocean territory . with veteran in attendance , the VJ service will be a tribute to they , involve 400 member of the armed force , and the Red Arrows . the event will feature a guard of honour of the Royal Navy , British Army and Royal Air Force . music will be provide by military band , and the battle of Britain memorial flight will lead a breathtaking flypast . the national two - minute silence will be hold on Friday 15 August at midday to remember and thank those who fight for our freedom . the silence will be mark by all UK Government Departments , which will also fly the Union flag at full mast . the Government continue to support and promote a range of initiative to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the ending of the second world war throughout the year , to Remembrance Sunday and beyond . to mark VJ Day specifically , the Imperial War Museum will screen a short film , " I see the World end " , produce by Es Devlin , to commemorate the dropping of the atomic bomb . there be a new augmented reality experience offer a deep exploration of the second world war in Asia and the Pacific . child and family will be welcome to the museum ' s site in London and the north to participate in make paper crane as a symbol of peace . we continue to promote a range of educational and cultural activity to help school and community to engage with the 80th commemoration design to mark both VE and VJ Day , include : " our Shared Story " , a collection of educational resource ; " letter to Loved Ones " , a project encourage people to share family letter from the war to illustrate what everyday life be like — it be lovely to discover some of my grandparent ' letter from when my grandad , Bobby , who I be very proud of , be serve in the RAF during the war ; and " the Next Morning " , a new production write by James Graham that focus on the hope , dream and ambition of young people after the second world war . the Government have provide funding to support art centre , library and museum across the country to work with their local community to develop activity that commemorate and reflect the VE and VJ Day anniversary . I look forward to visit one such project in my area , take place at the Barnsley Civic , to hear more about its work explore community solidarity in Barnsley from the 1940 to the present day . my Department have be work with the common - wealth War Graves Commission on the " For Evermore Tour " , which be travel across the UK and global site include cemetery in Kenya , Hong Kong , Singapore , Thailand and Japan . the tour will honour and shine a light on story from those across the world who fight in the second world war , and I be grateful for the opportunity to see the tour at first hand in May . UK landmark , high commission in Commonwealth country and prominent memorial will be light up in white on 15 August as beacon of strength and national unity , as they be 80 year ago . we have just be through the centenary of the great war . do the Minister agree that the difference between 80 year and 100 be that we still have veteran among we ? sadly , when we come to the centenary of the event we be commemorate this year , that will not be the case . will she therefore make absolutely sure that it be the veteran who be centre stage during this commemoration ? the right hon . Gentleman make an incredibly important point . I hope I have outline this in my contribution , but I reiterate that we want veteran to be front and centre of these commemoration . importantly , commemorative activity be take place across the UK , with each of the devolved government mark VJ Day 80 . the Scottish Government will be lead a concert at Edinburgh castle , where I recently visit the national war memorial . in Northern Ireland , a charity concert will take place in Lurgan , and I be pleased to visit the area a few month ago when I be invite by the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) . I recently visit Cathays cemetery in Cardiff to see the work it carry out to honour the Commonwealth war grave . national wreath - laying at the Wales national war memorial will lead a programme in Wales centre on peace and reconciliation . those be just some of the event take place across our devolved nation , and together they reflect a shared commitment to remembrance and recognition across the UK . More than 144 commemoration be take place across the nation throughout August to mark VJ Day , from those that I have already mention to service in Lichfield and Norwich cathedral , which the public be encourage to join . we commemorate the end of the second world war throughout the year , and not only on VE Day on 8 May or VJ day on 15 August ; troop return home gradually throughout the year until Alderney ' s Homecoming Day on 15 December . the strength and courage of those who fight be truly unmatched , and the horror that they suffer as prisoner of war in the far east be unimaginable . strength be what we remember about VJ veteran : their unshakable resilience , determination , service and sacrifice in unimaginable circumstance , and the way in which they come together to support one another long after the war have end . I be sure that I speak for member on both side of the House in express our deep gratitude to our great second world war generation . we come together in the House in a moment of unity today to mark 80 year since victory over Japan , in awe of those who give more than many of we will ever have to give . rise — there be far too many member wish to speak for I to squeeze in before the debate conclude . there will be a sharp speak limit of four minute for Back Benchers to begin with , but please note that many colleague will be disappoint . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for her speech , and for all the event that she announce : we will , of course , support the Government ' s agenda in celebrate VJ Day . it be a privilege to respond to the Minister on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . the 80th anniversary of the end of the second world war be undoubtedly a cause for huge celebration . in May , the whole nation come together to celebrate the end of the war in Europe on VE Day . it be a special day with celebration across the country , include many in my constituency . when we watch the national celebration on television as a family , my two young boy take a particular liking to the Red Arrows fly over Buckingham Palace . I hope that in time they will begin to understand properly why we celebrate that important day and what it mean , for it symbolise the victory of good over evil after nearly six year of unimaginable suffering , when a whole nation — young and old , male and female , rich and poor — come together to fight Nazi Germany , defeat fascism and liberate Europe , 80 year ago . as the nation , 80 year ago , dance into the night celebrate the end of fight close to home , thousand of british and Commonwealth soldier be lock in a struggle against imperial Japan . it take until 15 August , after the United States have drop nuclear bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki , for the fighting to end in the far east . the campaign that begin in 1941 , start with a surprise japanese attack on Pearl Harbour , be vast : fighting take place from Hawaii to the north - east border of India , and from Papua New Guinea in the south to Manchuria in northern China on the border of the Soviet Union . by 1945 , across Asia and the Pacific , 365 , 000 british and 1 . 5 million Commonwealth troop be deploy , include the large volunteer army in history , the pre - partition Indian Army of 2 . 5 million soldier . despite the scope of that campaign , those brave soldier , who frequently fight in horrific condition against a formidable enemy , be often know as the forget Army to acknowledge the lack of reporting of the campaign in the mainstream medium at the time ; yet story of heroic action remain . just last night , as I discuss the campaign in the far east with my parent , my mum tell I about one of her uncle who have be a prisoner of war in that conflict in the far east . then there be my two Westminster staff member who tell I proudly about their great - grandfather and their great - uncle , both of whom earn the Burma Star . field Marshal Slim ' s 14th Army be think to be the most diverse in the world . More than 40 language be speak by troop , who be unite in one ambition — to stand up and defend civilisation from barbarism and tyranny . many people associate the fall of France in 1940 as Britain ' s low point in the war , but the crush surrender of Malaya and Singapore be at least as devastating : 9 , 000 british , pre - partition Indian and Commonwealth troop be lose , and about 130 , 000 be take as prisoner of war . the famous film " the Bridge on the River Kwai " and the more recent " the Railway Man " show the brutal condition face by those take prisoner , and serve as a stark reminder of the reason we have to stand up and defeat imperial Japan . may I say how important it be that both Front Benchers have emphasise the atrocity that be commit against prisoner of war ? just as we remember the Nuremberg trial , we remember the Tokyo trial , at which many war criminal be convict and subsequently execute . be it not a measure of the importance of unconditional surrender that that at least remove the aura of divinity from the Emperor so that the fanaticism of religion be excise from japanese society ? my right hon . Friend say that so eloquently , and he be clearly a very learn individual . I could not agree with he more . although we be all regularly remind of the heroic invasion of Normandy , a 2013 poll of the british public by the National Army Museum in Chelsea rank the battle of Kohima and Imphal as Britain ' s great ever battle . as we commemorate the 80th anniversary of VJ Day , I hope we will reflect on some of the lesson of the second world war . I be proud to remind the House that soldier from all over the Commonwealth — from Australia , New Zealand , Canada , India , South Africa and many other country — fight alongside british troop . I commend the hon . gentleman for what he be put forward . he be right to say that some 40 language be speak among the 14th Army , which give we an idea of its diversity . he mention the battle of Kohima and Imphal , which be the great defeat the japanese army ever suffer . do he agree that what we see on VJ Day , which we be commemorate today , be one of the great army in the world engage in one of the great battle and defeat the Japanese ? even though atomic bomb be a part of that , the army and soldier on the ground make the difference . it be always a great privilege to be intervene on by the hon . Gentleman , and I could not agree with he more . I thank he for his intervention . in the far east in particular , there be troop from all different faith : Christians , Muslims , Sikhs , Jews , Buddhists and many other all fight as one to defeat Japan . I have learn that my wife ' s grandfather receive the Indian Distinguished Service Medal as part of the 7th Battalion of the 16th Punjab Regiment . while move through the burmese coastline , he be suddenly surround by japanese soldier . my wife ' s grandfather be Lance Corporal Samundar Khan . his platoon be order to attack uphill so that the lead platoon could retreat . carry a Bren gun , Lance Corporal Khan lead his man up the steep slope as heavy japanese grenade rain down on they . with the gun at his hip , and despite be seriously wound in the chest , he lead the charge and drive the Japanese from the top . Khan , who be 18 and who lie about his age so that he could enlist to fight and to defend our nation , be wound three time in two month . Khan ' s story of bravery and heroism , though special , be not unique . to all those who fight against tyranny and defend democracy so that we can stand here today in the mother of all Parliaments , I say thank you . as we look at the increase instability in the world , we should remember those brave soldier who fight for our liberty and our freedom , and for the principle and freedom that be underpin in the atlantic charter : freedom of speech and expression , freedom of worship , freedom from want and freedom from fear . they all matter today , as they do then . those principle set a new world order . although there be those who seek to divide we and who try to prey on our difference , we must draw inspiration from the hero who sacrifice everything and who give their life for a well world . they reject populism , they reject tyranny , and they reject the politic of hate . those who fight and die in the second world war truly be our great generation . I urge the Minister , on top of everything else the Government be do , to encourage her colleague in the Department for Education to ensure that the story and lesson from the war , include the struggle against Japan , be never forget . I also ask that the Government build on the deep - root relationship with our ally who stand with we , so that we can stand up to those who would divide we today . as we reflect on the war ' s conclusion , I look forward to colleague ' contribution . we must remind ourselves that our right to be here and to represent our constituent be possible only because of the brave man and woman from across the world who lay down their life for this country . once again , I say thank you . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . there be now a four - minute time limit . eighty year ago , the gun finally fall silent across the Asia - Pacific , imperial Japan surrender , and the most devastating conflict in human history come to an end . today we remember not just the victory , but the immense courage and sacrifice that make it possible . just two month ago , I stand in this House to mark the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe Day . across my Slough constituency , community of different background come together to reflect on that milestone . however , while Europe celebrate peace in May 1945 , the war rage on in the east . hundred of thousand of british troop remain in combat across Asia and the Pacific , alongside million of Commonwealth soldier — the large volunteer Army in history — who bear the burden of war with extraordinary resolve . their service remind we that victory be never the triumph of one nation alone . may I ask the Chair of the Select Committee to mention some of the many diverse group from across Berkshire , whom I know he be think of at this very difficult time , include our local nepalese and gurkha community ? I thank my hon . friend and Berkshire colleague for that intervention , and he be so right in what he say . we must remember they . as we mark this solemn anniversary , we must shine a light on those whose sacrifice have too often be overlook . their name may not appear in our history book , but their courage shape the world we live in . at the time of my VE Day contribution to the House in May , it be my understanding that only two British - base veteran who serve in the pre - partition Indian Army be still with we . it be with deep regret that I inform the House today that both veteran have , sadly , since pass away . I would like to pay tribute to Havildar Major Rajindar Singh Dhatt MBE and Daffadar Muhammad Hussain , who be a local Slough resident . these two formidable Commonwealth ex - servicemen , whom I have the honour and privilege of meeting on several occasion , serve with distinction and dedicate their life to preserve the legacy of those who serve . I be sure the House will join I in send condolence to their family and friend . their story be a powerful reminder of the global nature of this conflict and the endure bond of service . as a proud Sikh , I carry this legacy personally . my great - grandfather lose a leg fighting in the first world war and my grandmother ' s brother and other family member serve in the second world war . as I discuss with my staff member Isabella Elie and Lewis Rantell , their story be echo in family across Britain and the Commonwealth . one such story be that of Patrick McAnulty , one of the thousand of british and ally prisoner of war who endure unimaginable suffering in captivity . subject to force labour , starvation and brutal treatment , many pow do not survive . those who do carry the physical and emotional scar for the rest of their life . their resilience in the face of such cruelty be testament to the human spirit , and their sacrifice must never be forget . as we reflect on the past , we must also celebrate how far we have come . the United Kingdom and Japan , once wartime enemy , be now very close ally . today , we stand together in defence of peace and democracy . as the Defence Committee note in its report on the global combat air programme , that partnership be a cut - edge collaboration between the UK , Japan and Italy to develop the next generation of fighter jet . it be a powerful symbol of reconciliation and share purpose . as veteran share their story during this 80th anniversary , we be remind that remembrance must be more than ceremonial : it must inspire action . the lesson of history be clear , yet conflict persist from Ukraine to Gaza , Sudan , the Congo and more . these be not distant tragedy ; they be urgent reminder of the fragility of peace . in my role as Chair of the Defence Committee , I be regularly remind of the vital role that our current brave servicemen and woman play in keep our country safe , and I would like to recognise their contribution , too . however , recognition must be more than symbolic ; it must be match by action and support . so , in conclusion , let we remember , let we reflect , but above all , let we ensure that the sacrifice of the past be never in vain and that the peace they secure be never take for grant . rise — Order . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , after whom back Benchers will be on a three - minute speaking limit . it be an absolute privilege to speak today as we mark the 80th anniversary of victory over Japan , an occasion for national reflection , remembrance and gratitude . we in the Liberal Democrats be proud that so many of our colleague have serve in the armed force . they , together with veteran and serve personnel across the UK , carry the torch of service pass down from that great generation — those who fight to preserve freedom and democracy in the face of fascism and tyranny . this anniversary be not just a historical milestone ; it be a vital opportunity to honour those who serve , fight and , in so many case , make the ultimate sacrifice . their courage shape the world we live in . it secure peace , it secure democracy and it leave a legacy of international co - operation that we must never take for grant . in the far east , where the war continue long after peace have be declare in Europe , ten of thousand of british and Commonwealth troop , include the legendary Fourteenth Army , fight under unimaginable condition in the jungle of Burma , in the heat of the Pacific island , and in the face of fierce resistance . fighting take place over a vast region , from Hawaii to India , and allied force face disease , the constant risk of capture and the heartbreak of separation . victory over Japan only come on 15 August , after devastating loss on all side , include the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki . this anniversary carry a personal resonance for I . my grandfather serve in Burma as a captain in what we believe be the Yorkshire Regiment , part of the British 2nd Infantry Division . he fight in the battle of Kohima , a brutal turning point in the war where the terrain , climate and condition push soldier to the absolute limit of human endurance . like many people who fight in those condition , he never speak about his experience , but it be clear that the impact of the war stay with he for his whole life . I remember he today with pride , and honour the sacrifice of all those who serve alongside he . we have no survive veteran who serve in the far east in my constituency , but the memory of their service live on powerfully in our community . on victory over Japan Day , local resident flood the street in a spontaneous torchlit procession from Epsom town centre to the Downs . a 30 - foot bonfire , build from the ruin of bomb site , be light by the mayor and effigy of axis leader be cast into flame . across Ewell , Hook Road , Horton Estate and Rosebery Park , family gather to celebrate , give thank and remember . we remember still brave man from our borough , such as Sergeant Jack Canham , kill at Imphal ; Lance Bombardier Alfred Cates , who die as a prisoner of war on the Burma railway ; Corporal William Murphy , who fight and fall at Kohima ; and Corporal Noel Seymour , a young RAF wireless operator , who die aged just 21 . all be commemorate on our local war memorial and in the book of remembrance at the town hall . their story be part of Epsom and Ewell ' s history , and they deserve to be part of our nation ' s collective memory , too . the war in the Pacific be brutal . capture soldier face inhumane treatment , while many of those who serve in that theatre feel forget in the decade that follow , earn the title " the forget Army " . today , we remember they . we remember the soldier from India , the Caribbean , Africa and all those from the Commonwealth who fight under the british flag . Theirs be one of the most diverse fighting force in history : man and woman from across the empire , speak dozen of language , unite by duty . their contribution should be recognise not as an afterthought , but as a central part of our national narrative . I want to recognise and commend the effort of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and its global " for Evermore " tour , which have work to preserve the memory of those who serve , from Singapore to Kenya , from Hong Kong to Thailand . the Commonwealth War Graves Commission ' s torch for peace be a vital symbol of remembrance , pass from one generation to the next . as we commemorate , we must also recommit to support those who serve today and those who have serve . it be not acceptable that , in 2025 , veteran continue to fall through the crack , struggle with mental health , homelessness or poor housing . the Liberal Democrats believe in a fair deal for our veteran . a fair deal mean action on homelessness , by build 150 , 000 more social home every year to allow every member of society access to their own home ; a fair deal mean proper mental health support , by provide mental health support and easy access to professional help ; and a fair deal mean make sure veteran count , by ensure there be well recording of the physical and mental health outcome of veteran , include wait time for treatment . those who now carry the torch — current service personnel — must have a fair deal . I be proud that last week my Liberal Democrat colleague in the other place defeat the Government to extend the decent home standard to Ministry of Defence accommodation . I hope that that remain in the Renters ' right Bill when it return to the Commons . it be a basic principle : if someone be willing to put their life on the line for our democracy , they should at the very least have a warm , safe home . the injustice face by many Commonwealth and other overseas armed force personnel and their family must also be rectify . some be still be ask to pay thousand of pound in visa fee just to live in the country they serve . those fee should be scrap . no veteran ' s family should be price out of their place in our society . finally , we must ensure that this 80th anniversary be a live act of remembrance , and we must teach our child the full story of the blitz and the Burma railway . in do so , we preserve the memory of those who fight and those who never come home , and we pass on their story with honesty , pride and gratitude . remembrance be about not only the past , but the present and the future ; and as threat to freedom rise again in our world , we must remember why they fight and ensure that we honour their legacy in our teaching , in our word and in our deed . it be my privilege to join colleague across the House in mark the 80th anniversary of victory over Japan . it be a moment to honour the bravery , sacrifice and endure legacy of those from our country and ally around the world who contribute in the Pacific theatre of the second world war . I have a direct personal connection to the Pacific theatre : my uncle , Jack Minns , serve as a crewman aboard the plane of the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia , Lord Mountbatten . however , it be of Carlisle ' s own Border Regiment that I wish to speak . the regiment serve its country with distinction during the second world war and play a vital role in the ally victory over Japan . the 2nd , 4th and 9th Battalions of the Border Regiment form part of the elite Chindit column operate behind japanese line in Burma . the column be hyper - mobile , self - sufficient unit engage in dare long - range jungle warfare . in Imphal in east India , troop from the 2nd and 9th Battalions of the Border Regiment join force with indian and east african division to resist the japanese advance . this defeat of the japanese force prevent a wide japanese invasion of the indian mainland and be widely see as a turning point in the campaign . the 9th Battalion of the Border Regiment go on to spearhead the capture of Meiktila in March 1945 . this decisive blow lead to the fall of Mandalay and the liberation of Rangoon , and by May the Japanese have all but abandon Burma . amidst this be remarkable story of bravery from individual member of the Border Regiment , include Private Joseph Arnold , a stretcher bearer who single - handedly carry back two wound soldier when other be unable to help . in May it be my privilege to attend the " turn of the leave " ceremony at the regimental chapel of the Border Regiment in Carlisle cathedral , and to have the opportunity to pay my tribute to the courage , sacrifice and endure legacy of our former local regiment . last week I hold a Westminster Hall debate on the incredible contribution of those who serve in the RAF unarmed photographic reconnaissance unit . of the four local man who serve in this unit , one be Sergeant Charles Ross . while we know that he serve in the far east , we do not know whether he live beyond VJ Day — he remain miss in action . I wish to place on the record my thank to those man from Carlisle and north Cumbria who fight through flood , jungle and monsoon in Burma and India . their tenacity help stall and eventually defeat japanese force , and their perseverance and sacrifice will always be remember . last weekend I meet my constituent Margaret Barbour , of Rosefield farm near Annan , to hear about the experience of her father , Sergeant Major Jock Wylie , and to look through the letter , paperwork and photograph that she have keep . a ride instructor in the Lanarkshire Yeomanry Territorials , Jock be deploy in 1940 to the far east . by 1942 , after the fall of Singapore , he be take prisoner by the Japanese . thus begin three year and eight month of unimaginable suffering . Jock be not a " guest " of the Imperial Nippon Army , as their propaganda call it , but their slave . Jock spend time in Changi prison in Singapore before be send to the notorious Kinkaseki jungle camp on Formosa — now know as Taiwan . hundred of Jock ' s fellow prisoner die on that journey . there , along with hundred of other , he be force to work in copper mine in horrific condition , often up to 18 hour a day . starve , beat and strip of dignity , man be tie to stake under a burn sun , give salt rice or leave in bamboo sweat box without water . every day they be force to take a walk past prisoner who have be behead for allege misdemeanour and have their head place on pole , with their full military headgear still wear as the flesh around it decay . Jock and his colleague be reduce to skin and bone . he be over 12 stone when capture , and barely 6 stone when release . the first person to see he at the local railway station on his return burst into tear at the sight of he . the right hon . Gentleman be tell a vivid story — one that would be very familiar to a former constituent of mine , George Money , whose daughter , Pam Gillespie , lead the VJ Day commemoration every year in my constituency . do the right hon . Gentleman recognise that it be so important to tell these story so that our generation and the next generation recognise the sacrifice of these man , as well as the experience of their family when they return to they in that way ? I absolutely agree , which be why this debate be so important . many of those man do not feel able to speak about their experience , or find when they return to the UK that the public want to move on , now that the war be over . it be incumbent on we to relay these experience , which be why I want to tell Jock ' s story tonight . Red Cross parcel rarely arrive in the camp , and dysentery , beriberi and malaria ravage the prisoner . somehow , Jock manage to stay alive , and he become a beacon of hope for other prisoner as , in the dark night , he sing a song call the " Dumfriesshire Foxhounds " , a tune that lift spirit and become so well know that even the Gurkhas and Australians join in . Jock never give in to bitterness , but the scar he carry — both physical and emotional — never truly heal . when he return to Lockerbie , he embrace his family and the life he have leave behind , become a major part of the annual Lockerbie gala . he share his story not to gain sympathy , but to honour truth and bear witness . he speak of the Gurkhas — the " brave little man " , who move like ghost in the jungle . he never forget the cruel warning prisoner be give , after be force to dig potentially their own burial pit , that if the Americans come , the prisoner would all be burn alive , as he have see happen to Gurkhas in Singapore . let we take this opportunity to remember not just what Jock and his fellow prisoner of war endure , but what they stand for : duty , dignity and decency . we owe Jock — a man who , despite everything , find the strength to go on — and the man and woman like he , more than monument . let we not allow the fading of photograph or the yellowing of old newspaper clipping to erase story like his . let we speak they aloud , share they and learn from they . when the last witness be go , all that remain be what we choose to remember . it be a huge honour to represent the ancient and loyal borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme in this House , and all those who serve our country — the veteran and their family — to whom we owe so much . we be a patriotic community , which be why I be honour to attend the recent reopening of the Tri Service and Veterans support centre in Newcastle - under - Lyme just two week ago . the centre do wonderful work support and stand up for our veteran and all those who call Staffordshire and Newcastle - under - Lyme home . I be grateful to the Minister for set out the support , funding and event that will allow our United Kingdom to remember , reflect and understand the sacrifice of those to whom we owe so much . my grandfather board a boat from Jamaica in 1941 to serve king and country , to help we to defeat the Nazis and to fight for the freedom and democracy that we enjoy today . they be and remain the great generation , and we owe they so much . every anniversary commemorate the ally ' victory on VJ Day be significant , but this year be even more significant , as we mark 80 year since the end of the second world war , and because this may be the last significant anniversary that we share with the survive veteran of that great generation . we owe they all a huge debt of gratitude . those brave soldier come from every corner of what be then the british empire . they fight and sacrifice so that we may speak openly and freely today . the effort of those soldier from across what be now the Commonwealth should serve as a unify influence on we all today . it be in Newcastle - under - Lyme that Reginald Mitchell , the designer of the Spitfire , be bear . when the war arrive on the doorstep of a different Newcastle from the one I call home — the one in New South Wales , Australia — which suffer a direct shell attack from the Japanese in June 1942 , it be three squadron of Reginald Mitchell ' s spitfire plane that would be send to help to defend the shore of Australia from October 1942 . from one Newcastle to another . as many member gather in the Chamber tonight will know , I be a proud son of the Commonwealth , so VJ Day be particularly important to I due to the extraordinary contribution of Commonwealth country to the war effort in the eastern theatre . how lucky be we that they serve and stand up to be count ? as I say in my speech to commemorate the 80th anniversary of VE Day , there be no great tribute to the great generation than continue to push for a more tolerant , more respectful and more peaceful world . how proud be I , as a Staffordshire MP , that the arboretum in Lichfield will be lead our national commemoration as we give thank to those who give their life for we ? I rise quite simply to honour all those who serve in the Pacific campaign and in Asia during world war two . that include my own father — a very young Captain Amos at the time — who serve at the end of the second world war after be redeploy from Europe . we also remember those who die on all side , include thousand of civilian , and how strongly those event at the end of the second world war send the message that war be what happen when politic and diplomacy fail . let we never forget that , along with the terrible consequence for those live with war right now . other who serve in the Pacific campaign include many unsung hero of the RAF ' s photographic reconnaissance unit — I congratulate the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) on secure a recent Westminster Hall debate on that — whose courage and skill gather intelligence , shorten conflict and save life . that intelligence be as vital in the eastern theatre as it be in the western european theatre . I will take a moment to acknowledge those from my constituency who serve in the PRU , whose bravery be as extraordinary as their sacrifice . fly Officer Eric Durston from Wellington fly solo reconnaissance mission , capture image critical to ally planning . he be lose over the Netherlands in 1942 . his gravestone at Bergen bear the inscription : " he die and never know ; England , he die for you . " it be sign simply , " Mother " — a mother whose heartache at the loss of her son at only 22 I can only imagine . on Christmas eve 1944 , Flying Officer Priddle from Taunton die when his Spitfire be shoot down over Utrecht . more happily , Eric Hill — also of Taunton — fly Mosquitos across the Arctic , on the eastern front and over Germany on dangerous mission . one such mission — to photograph Tirpitz — be over 3 , 000 mile long and last more than 10 hour . it be think to be the long reconnaissance operation of the entire war . he survive and go on to fulfil the dream of playing , and later commentate on , cricket for Somerset . he be commemorate in the press box at the county grind a few hundred yard from my own home . those story remind we that everyday folk get catch up in war and do extraordinarily courageous thing . we owe it to those who serve to stand with veteran , to remember they and their sacrifice . it be therefore a privilege last week to take part in the debate on our Northern Ireland veteran . no veteran should ever be subject to double jeopardy and pursue for do no more than their duty . I wish to bring to the Minister ' s attention a veteran who desperately need help — [ interruption . ] I will write to the Minister about that veteran , who have only week to live . I would be really interested in the hon . member explain a bit more about the veteran to whom he just refer . I be extremely grateful to the hon . member . Dr X serve 25 year in the Royal Army Medical Corps and transfer to the NHS less than two year ago . he have be give the prognosis that he have only week to live , and because he have be in his transfer position with the NHS for less than two year he will lose his death benefit . I have write to the Secretary of State for Defence today and send the letter to his office . I hope that Ministers will be able to look urgently at his case . those who serve in world war two , include the pilot of the PRU who fly in silence , be part of the great generation . their voice may increasingly be silent , but their legacy speak volume . in February 1942 , Singapore fall to the force of the japanese empire . nearly 85 , 000 british , indian , australian and malay soldier be capture . one of those many thousand be Major Paul Robinson , a Sherwood Forester from Ilkeston . he be take to join the hundred of thousand of prisoner of war and civilian force to build the Burma - Thailand railway . all the while , Major Robinson ' s wife Hope wait at home without a single word about her husband . in September 1944 , 49 british prisoner of war be rescue by the Americans . Paul be sadly not among they , but two forester who know he be and , on their return to England , his wife Hope interview they . the man believe that one day the war would be over , that they would be free and that fascism would be defeat . she report what she have learn to the Ilkeston Miners ' Welfare and write a letter to the Daily Express . what follow be extraordinary : in response , Hope receive more than 5 , 000 letter from the family of soldier far away , fellow distraught wife of prisoner of war , and those who just wish to express their sympathy and admiration . More than 2 , 000 of these letter be now preserve at Erewash Museum , in a permanent exhibition entitle " Letters of Hope " . Paul return to Ilkeston in September 1945 and die there in 1997 , age 87 . his wife pass away in 2008 , but thank to her daughter Penny , who donate the letter in 2015 , they and their incredible story be remember . I want to remember another Ilkeston man , Donald Rose , who die on 11 July this year . at 110 , he be not only my most senior constituent ; for just over six month , he be our nation ' s most senior citizen . Donald be a veteran of the second world war . he fight fascist in the desert of north Africa and in the invasion of Sicily . he land on the beach of Normandy on D - day and help to liberate France from Nazi tyranny . he see with his own eye the grave evil of all , when he enter the Bergen - Belsen concentration camp and be meet by 60 , 000 sick and starve prisoner and the body of 13 , 000 , murder and unburied . Donald Rose be a hero , and I know I speak for every one of my constituent when I say that we will all miss he and we will remember he . eighty year on , we must remember all those story : the grand deed of courage and brilliance , the dark act of destruction and depravity , and the small expression of love and hope . it have be an honour on this anniversary to share those story with the House , and I hope that we will all continue to do so for many year to come . on 8 May 1945 at 3 pm , Prime Minister Winston Churchill make a radio announcement that Germany have surrender and the war in Europe have come to an end . in town and city across the nation , people gather in their community to remember those they have lose and , for so many , to rejoice that the war in Europe be over . at the same time , half a world away , thousand of British , Commonwealth and ally force be still involve in bitter fighting in Japan and the Pacific . although part of the same war , the conflict in Asia present different and in many case uniquely harrowing challenge . troop fight in jungle drench by monsoon , on snow - cover hill and in the scorching tropical heat of remote island . prisoner of war face the harsh condition of brutality , disease and malnutrition . sadly , while 8 May be teach and commemorate across the country , too many remain unaware of the sacrifice and conflict in Asia , or even when VJ Day be . the Fourteenth Army , which fight in the campaign in the Pacific , be call the forget Army . in the face of regional and grow conflict today , as we once again face threat from power increasingly hostile to our value and way of life , it be more important than ever that we remember they . in the Spencer family , the Army in Burma be hardly forget . my grandfather be a Chindit and fight in Burma . while he resist talk much about his experience , it be clear from what he do say what incredible sacrifice he and his fellow Chindits make for our country . the experience of the war live on with he not just in memory , but in his health . he be medically evacuate back to the UK , suffer from tropical sprue and malaria and , like many other , malnourished and incredibly underweight . back in the UK he be treat with cigarette , which we now know be not helpful , and with tonic , which — although it be helpful — he consume so much of that he damage his hearing . he continue to have relapse of malaria throughout his life . he die before I be elect MP , but I be proud to stand in this House to pay tribute to he and to all who fight in Asia for our freedom . it be clear that , while the forget Army may have be forget , it be certainly not forget in this place this evening . I be grateful each and every day for the freedom we enjoy in this country — freedom secure because of the bravery and sacrifice make by those young man who fight and die in defence of our country and our way of life , and those who play the vital role at home to make the war effort possible . their sacrifice — their legacy — be our ability to have this debate this evening . we will remember they . I be truly thankful to be call to speak today . in three week , we will remember as a nation the end of the second world war and the deliverance of peace from that bloodiest conflict . in this House , too , we remember the terrible scale and depth of human suffering , the more than 50 million civilian kill , the service personnel who risk their life at home and abroad , those who give their life and those who come home forever change by what they endure . when the instrument of surrender be sign aboard the USS Missouri on 2 September 1945 , a young seaman of the Royal Navy be present . in the space of just a year , that teenager have already face down the terror of kamikaze pilot and rescue sailor from submerge explosive . he later say : " you be in that situation , and you do what you have to do , whatever the circumstance . I go in a boy and come out a man . " my constituent , Ken Tinkler , a witness to the momentous event that shape our world today , be still tell his story at the age of 98 . I pay tribute to a remarkable life , well live . as the gun fall silent , the world learn the true extent of the cruelty that the imperial japanese state have inflict upon its prisoner of war . in Birmingham , work continue to this day to preserve the memory of those british and Commonwealth serviceman and woman who be capture . after the war , many far east prisoner of war association be create , and Birmingham ' s be one of the few that be still in operation today . the Birmingham Association of Far East Prisoners of War have produce a VJ80 badge , expertly manufacture by Thomas Fattorini Ltd in the jewellery quarter in Birmingham . it depict a Commonwealth torch , the everlasting flame , and I be proud to wear it in this House tonight . in preparation for this debate , I ask the secretary of the association , a constituent whose father be a pow in the far east , what word it would be appropriate to read into the record to commemorate he , his comrade and all other represent . she reply with this : " to remember they be to honour they . " as the war fade from direct memory , it be important to say here , as we will shortly across the nation , that we remember the war and its end . we remember those who serve , and we remember those who now be go . we will endeavour to preserve and pass on those memory to our child and grandchild , and onwards to the uncounted generation that be yet to come . they will not be forget . we honour they by remember they . I be truly grateful to those who have make this debate possible , and for the funding that have be put in place so that we can mark the VJ80 anniversary appropriately . for the avoidance of doubt , this speech come from a place of deep appreciation for post - war Japan and for the enrichment it have give so many of we through its automotive and technological innovation and through global cultural phenomenon such as " Godzilla " . it be starkly different from the Japan fight by our great generation . Less than a decade after the nuclear attack on Hiroshima and Nagasaki , " Godzilla " be create as a metaphor for nuclear weapon and their destructive power , but 2023 ' s " Godzilla Minus one " — great and more destructive still — be also a metaphor for national guilt . for everything we love about Japan today , it have never undertake the societal reckoning with its past that Germany do follow the fall of the Nazis . across Germany stand the horrifying relic of the Holocaust . in Hiroshima , the a - bomb dome be a memorial to the victim of the atomic bomb . in the land of the rise sun , it be far more difficult to find such an open recognition of its wartime torture of prisoner of war or its atrocity against civilian , such as by Unit 731 . in 1936 , under the direction of senior army surgeon Ishii Shiro , Japan focus on make disease a silent ally through human experiment and the study of biological and chemical weapon . prisoner be kidnap man , woman — include pregnant woman — child and even baby bear of rape by staff within the compound . they include political prisoner and anybody who have express to any degree anti - japanese sentiment . victim be predominantly chinese , but include a significant minority of Russians . experiment include withdrawal of half a litre of blood every two or three day until death . some prisoner be freeze to death in experiment into frostbite or have limb freeze and then shatter . vivisection be regularly carry out to harvest organ from live victim , include pregnant woman , who have be expose to disease and bacteria , sometimes under the guise of vaccination . ten of thousand more be kill through engineer epidemic , with pathogen drop over chinese city by japanese aircraft . that be the context , Madam Deputy Speaker . on this come anniversary of victory over Japan Day , let we consider the path that lead to war and review the action that lead to its conclusion . let we lament the terrible loss of life through the strategic bombing , firebombing and atomic bombing of Japan . but we owe it to our fine generation to do so in the full context . perhaps someday our japanese friend can finally lay Godzilla to rest . it be an honour to rise to mark the 80th anniversary of VJ Day — the day when the gun finally fall silent and the second world war come to its end . Portsmouth have be the beat heart of Britain ' s naval power for over 500 year , and it play a crucial role in the Pacific campaign that lead to VJ Day . victory in the Pacific be hard won , and Royal Navy ship sail thousand of mile from Portsmouth dock to join the fight . within month of Pearl Harbour in December 1941 , the Navy be deploy significant force to the indian and Pacific ocean . by 1945 , the British Pacific fleet be the large and most powerful fleet Britain have ever assemble , comprise four battleship , six fleet carrier , 15 small carrier and over 750 aircraft — all supply and maintain , and many build , in Portsmouth and other british shipyard . the fleet comprise thousand of personnel — sailor , aircrew , marine and support staff — who fight in the swelter heat of the indian ocean and weather the typhoon of the Pacific , but many never return . Portsmouth naval base work around the clock prepare ship for service . the barrack house thousand of man bind for the far east , and local shipyard build the landing craft , destroyer and frigate that would prove essential . the entire city , from dockyard worker to family who billet sailor , be a valuable part of the war effort . the human cost of victory be profound . beyond those who die in battle , thousand suffer disease , wound and psychological trauma — yet their sacrifice be not in vain . when Japan surrender on 15 August 1945 , it mark the end of one of the most devastating conflict in human history . the Royal Navy have play its part in bring about a victory that would reshape the world , establish the principle of international law , and create the foundation of decade of peace and prosperity . the lesson of VJ Day remain so very relevant today . the victory be achieve not through the effort of any single nation but through alliance and co - operation . as we face new challenge in an uncertain world , the example of those who serve in the Pacific remain inspirational . I would like to mention the Royal Navy ship that have serve since : HMS Daring , HMS Argyll , HMS Albion , HMS Sutherland , HMS Tamar , HMS Spey and , of course , HMS Prince of Wales , which be en route there as a special deployment in Operation Highmast . to all veteran and serve personnel , I say : thank you . finally , I want to pay tribute to two individual — Lance Sergeant Harold Kennard from Stamshaw in Portsmouth , and Private George Ogle from North end , both of whom be capture and die as prisoner of war , make the ultimate sacrifice — and reflect on my city ' s role in VJ Day . history be not make of distant figure , but by serve personnel from my city and by community like mine that come together for a common cause . the home front be an unrelenting struggle and the european theatre be the most mechanised slaughter ever witness on the continent , but the brutal fighting of the Japanese be incomparable . young man would have hear the tale of ferocious fighting on the ground , kamikaze attack from the air , barbaric treatment of allied prisoner of war upon victory in battle , and mass suicide force on japanese civilian upon defeat in battle . those harrowing tale do not faze the good old man of east London or Essex , or , for that matter , the million of brave british , indian and Commonwealth soldier who volunteer . over the course of british involvement , loyal subject of the Crown leave their family , friend and native soil to sail to the far east to defend their empire . many of those brave man be from England , include many from Essex . I remember especially the South West Essex Burma Star Association , which meet at the Romford United Services club . I be honour to be give honorary membership of the club by those old and bold veteran , who I be proud to meet and invite to Parliament in my early year as an MP . their memory , and that of those who serve in the far east , will never be forget . for over 90 , 000 serviceman , it be only ever destine to be a one - way journey . hand in hand with our american ally from across the pond , those gallant man fight to ensure the end of one of the most brutal and oppressive imperial power , which could rain terror upon its neighbour no long , and to ensure that freedom and democracy prevail . determined to fight to the bitter end , the imperial japanese army fully intend to force an allied invasion of the japanese homeland , which would have lead to untold casualty on both side . that be avert . often refer to as the forgotten Army , the soldier of the Pacific theatre be the very great of the great generation . their loyal service and valiant fighting bring victory home and secure we a peace that have last decade . their inspirational commander , General Bill Slim , be one of the great general of world war two . his book , " defeat into victory " , which be about how he do it , be one of the great book ever write about that war . do my hon . friend agree ? I certainly do . General Slim be one of the great british hero , and we salute his honour today as well . the loyal service and valiant fighting of those serviceman bring victory home and secure we a peace that have last decade . victory in the second world war enable a thriving Commonwealth of Nations , global economic growth , the spread of democracy and the guarantee of the freedom that we so treasure in Britain today . those achievement be what our servicemen fight for , and we owe it to their memory to celebrate , preserve and advance they at every opportunity , as they do for King , country and Commonwealth . it be an honour to speak today as we approach this incredibly important anniversary . today be the day to celebrate the victory of democracy and freedom over fascism , as well as to remember all those who lose their life , be take prisoner or suffer during that fight . I believe that the most important thing we can do to honour their memory be to ensure that we never again return to the politic of fascism . although VJ Day mark the end of the war , fascist politic be on the rise all over the world . we must never allow ourselves to be complacent or to think that our modern world be immune . my community have its own story to tell about VJ Day . name be remember and list on the roll of honour at St John ' s church in Blackpool . one of my constituent write to I about the story of her grandad , Harold Rhodes , who be capture on 15 February 1942 , alongside many other man , and take to the notorious Changi prison camp . Harold be make to walk from Singapore to Burma via Thailand to work for the Japanese on the notorious death railway . he walk the last 100 mile of that 400 - mile force march on bare foot . it be say that one man die for every sleeper laid . Harold be release from Changi prison on 2 September 1945 and put on a ship for Rangoon , Burma . the purpose of the trip be rehabilitation for Harold and many other ex - prisoner , who be all extremely thin and need to gain weight urgently . on arrive home after a three - month journey , he weigh 6 stone 5 lbs — heaven only know what he weigh when he be release from Changi . Harold ' s granddaughter — my constituent — say that he be the gentle of man . Harold ' s story be that of so many man across the country . while Harold survive , many more die . many starve to death and many die from cholera , malaria or dysentery . they be the man whose suffer we must remember . their brutal treatment at the hand of the imperial japanese army must serve as a reminder to we all of the horror of war and strengthen our resolve to build a peaceful world . their suffering do not end when the war end . they spend their life suffer from PTSD , limb lose and long - term complication . I feel very move to intervene on my hon . friend because she be make such a powerful speech . as someone who previously represent part of her constituency , I know how much this will mean to her constituent . my grandfather have a Burma Star and he have scar all over his body . he never speak of it but the long - last trauma these veteran face live with they throughout their life and we do not recognise that enough . I would like to put that on the record . I thank my hon . friend very much for her intervention and totally agree with her analysis . my school friend ' s dad , George Brooks , suffer for the rest of his life from the ordeal he endure in the camp . as we approach the 80th anniversary of VJ Day and the celebration that will come with it , these story must be constantly tell . we remember the Blackpool Regiment , and everyone who have sacrifice their life for our country since . it be through our veteran that our collective memory of the second world war be well preserve , but as their bright flame be flicker it be important that a new generation — my generation — commit to re - tell their story . as a schoolboy , one of the piece of work that have stick with I the most be the " man behind the name " project , because it be impossible to think of the 5 million british young man — 25 % of adult man — who fight in the first world war ; that be 55 full Wembley stadium . the " man behind the name " project be so powerful , with the general point be , " go and pick a name on your local cenotaph . " for I , that be the one I pass on the way to Mrs Wood ' s history lesson at West Hill school . we be tell , " choose a name and research that man , because when you learn about that young man — where he be bear , his sweetheart , his job , his kid , not too dissimilar in age to yourself — you realise that it be not an abstract number , but 5 million young man with their own life . it hit home . " the man behind the name for I be Benjamin Ford , my great - great - grandfather . he die in Mesopotamia fight the Ottomans . what strike I particularly be that I hear a lot about the western front but little to nothing about this other front where man like Benjamin die for King and country . it rather strike I that the Pacific front in the second world war be often similarly overlook . today ' s debate be important for highlight those man who fight and die in the far east , particularly those fight after VE Day have pass . just this weekend I be speak to Theresa Haggart , a former local headmistress and stalwart of Windsor civic society , about her father , the late Charles Snelling ; I want to take this opportunity to highlight the man behind that name . he pass in August 2016 , age 92 . he come from a family with a proud tradition of national service . in the first world war , he be a regimental sergeant - major as part of the canadian imperial force , and in the second world war he be a radar engineer and operator . he spend time hop from ship to ship , make repair to essential equipment , and , like 365 , 000 other british troop , find himself thousand of mile away in the Pacific . unable to share his precise location with his family , he sketch drawing of the local culture and the people he meet on blank postcard , which he send to his parent , let they know he be okay . Charles do not discuss his service , although he do feel that while VE Day commemoration continue to draw national attention , VJ Day come and go almost as an afterthought . I gently say to Ministers that this sometimes feel to be the case on the 80th anniversary — and that be regrettable . victory over Japan mark the true end of the conflict , and no less be the sacrifice of those who give their life there , so let we all in this House play our part so that these story , as they come down from generation to generation — order . when we mark VJ Day — victory over Japan — we remember the true end of the second world war . the far east campaign see some of the harsh condition of the entire war : jungle warfare , sear heat and a determined enemy . it also see act of extraordinary courage and endure suffering , particularly among those take prisoner and subject to force labour . I pay tribute to my great uncle , Frank Mole , who be one of those man . the man and woman who serve there often come home to little recognition , but they deserve our great respect . as the Member of Parliament for Aldershot , I be proud to pay tribute in the VE Day debate to the great generation of my constituency . Farnborough and Aldershot be town that have serve as home of the British Army and the Royal Aircraft Establishment . today , I want to mention — proudly , as chair of the Nepal all - party parliamentary group — a group whose contribution in the far east deserve particular tribute : the Gurkhas . over 112 , 000 Gurkhas serve in the second world war , and more than a quarter of they fight in the far east campaign . in Burma , they become legendary — skilled in jungle warfare , trust by british commander and fear by the enemy . one of the fine example of the Gurkhas ' courage be Rifleman Lachhiman Gurung VC . in May 1945 , during the battle for Taungdaw in Burma , three enemy grenade be throw into his trench . he hurl back two . the third explode in his hand , blow off his finger and blind one eye . but for four hour — alone , one - handed — he hold the line , fire his rifle and call out , " come and fight a Gurkha ! " when relief come , 31 enemy soldier lie dead around his post . his platoon have survive . that story be more than legend ; it be live history for my constituency . today , Aldershot be home to the large nepali community in the UK , some of whom be descendant of those who serve . their presence be not just a legacy of war , but a live part of our society and our future . VJ Day matter to they ; it matter to we all . today , as we mark the anniversary of victory over Japan Day , we say once more : to the soldier who train on Aldershot ' s parade ground and fight through jungle and monsoon — as a Member of Parliament who benefit from the contribution of 300 or 400 Gurkhas and nepalese people , can I just say that I be very much enjoy the hon . Lady ' s speech and I can not wait to hear the rest ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . we say also to the engineer in Farnborough whose innovation help bring victory within reach , to the Gurkhas whose courage light up the darkness of war , and to the prisoner who endure , the family who wait , and the love one who never come home : we remember , we honour , we give thank , and we will never forget . rise — unfortunately we have run out of time and I need to call the Front Benchers . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it be a great privilege to respond to today ' s debate . I be grateful to all hon . member for their contribution . as many have say , the Pacific campaign of world war two be often refer to as the forget war , but that be far from the case today . we in Parliament remember that epic and brutal theatre of operation , honour all those who serve , and reflect on the terrible loss of human life — both military and civilian . it will certainly not be the forget war this summer as our nation join in the commemoration . as be frequently remark when we debate the anniversary of VE Day on 6 May , such event to mark VJ Day will be even more poignant and important because the living link to that time be pass . that living link have be sustain through so many family connection , as we have hear today . I want to put on record the contribution of those from Northern Ireland who serve in the far east . I think of Johnny McQuade , who be an MP in this House for our party from 1979 to 1983 . he be an inspiration to I as a young boy back in the ' 70 . I think also of Richie , a sergeant - major in the Royal Artillery Belfast Battalion , who go to camp in 1939 for two week but come back in 1945 have serve in the far east . those be two example of Northern Ireland ' s contribution to the far east war . I totally agree with the hon . Gentleman . I always make the effort to recognise the contribution of the whole of our Union to our armed force on all front in the second world war and throughout the history of our military . as I have say , many colleague have speak about their family connection . I be very move by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , who speak about her grandfather ' s service at Kohima . that be a key battle in the Burma campaign , and it be from where we get the Kohima epitaph , which we all know : " when you go home , tell they of we and say , for your tomorrow , we give our today . " those be immortal word . I understand that we be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) for bring forward this debate through the Backbench Business Committee . he speak so vividly of the horror of the enslavement of POWs and , in his word , the " scar that never heal " . have say that , we also hear from the Chair of the Defence Committee , the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , who remind we that today we have a strong relationship with Japan through GCAP — I be proud to be part of the global combat air programme as a Minister in the MOD — and also with Italy , which be part of the axis power in Europe . we enjoy bright relation now , even though , as the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) point out , perhaps some in japanese society have not fully come to term with what happen in the second world war . my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) speak very movingly about the Burma Star Association . the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) importantly stress the role that our veteran group will have in these festivity in the come week as we remember VJ Day . I note that the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) speak specifically about veteran and the issue of Northern Ireland veteran , which remain very important . we hope his speech indicate that , if legislation come forward , he will vote in the appropriate way to stand by our veteran . the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , in an excellent speech , speak very movingly of Donald Rose , who be 110 year old when he die and at one point the old person in the country . that be an extraordinarily brave tale , and I be grateful to he for share it with we . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) . no debate on the far east would be possible without mention of the Chindits , which I understand be formally know as the long - range penetration group . he remind we of the ravage of disease , which be the scourge of our force in many way . in that case it be malaria , but there be also dysentery , which we hear about from the hon . member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) , and many other horror be out there in the jungle during fight . the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) speak about the Birmingham association for the Far East Prisoners of War , remind we of the role of civic society in help POWs to come to term with the horror that they experience in the far east . we hear a number of colleague speak about specific element of our armed force and their service . the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) speak movingly about the Border Regiment and describe it fight through monsoon . that be an extraordinary record . the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) very proudly speak about the Royal Navy . she be very proud to have a naval constituency , and she be absolutely right to stress the extremely important role of the British Pacific fleet . in fact , I believe it play a crucial role in those final month as US force be head towards the japanese home island , use our own fleet to enable that military progress , which be incredibly important . the hon . member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood speak of the horror of the Burma railway , which many of we have hear of . I have a great uncle who be involve in it , but he would never speak of it , so shocking be the reality , despite be such a gentle man . the hon . Lady speak particularly about how emaciate the survivor be and how many die of starvation . do the hon . Gentleman agree that for many of the veteran who come back , the point at which they remember and relive their experience be later on in life , as they succumb to dementia ? they have to go through and relive the horror of their war experience at that time . the hon . Lady make an excellent point . we know that war leave last trauma , ptsd and so on , but perhaps it be particularly intense in those case . as I say , certainly in the case of my family member , he find it so harrowing that he be never to talk about it for the rest of his life . the hon . Lady make a very good point . we hear many in the VE Day debate talk about the role of other country in support our force , which be particularly true in the far east . the Chair of the Defence Committee , the hon . member for Slough , as well as the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme and particularly the hon . member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) , speak about the Gurkhas , remind we that we have a multinational force . it be an extraordinary force , include 365 , 000 british troop , 1 . 5 million Commonwealth troop and , as have be say , the pre - partition indian army of 2 . 5 million soldier . it be extraordinarily diverse . to conclude , VJ Day be not just the end of the war in the Pacific ; in effect , it be the end of world war two itself , which be formally confirm on 2 September 1945 . it be a war of unbelievable savagery and suffering , in which it be estimate that between 70 million and 80 million people die , the majority of whom be civilian . as our direct , living link with those who serve 80 year ago fade , it be right that we in this House play our part in commemorate this historic anniversary and publicly honour the memory of all who serve . quite simply , we say thank you . we will always remember they . it be a particular privilege to close this debate , which have see such a strong and united House say thank you to those who serve in the Pacific theatre in the second world war . a number of member have speak about their family member , but we thank all those who stand up to serve , defend our value and ensure the freedom that we have today . I be grateful to the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , who be responsible for ceremonial , for open this debate and clearly set out how the nation will mark VJ Day on 15 August . it be an opportunity for all our community in every part of the United Kingdom to tell the story that member have be share with the House today . they be story of sacrifice , of courage and of ordinary folk do extraordinary thing , and it be so important that we keep those story go today . I pay tribute to the father of my constituent Sally Hedges Greenwood , Lance Sergeant Frank Jeremy Hedges , who serve in the 135th Field Regiment . he be capture at the fall of Singapore and serve on the infamous Burma railway . while the nation celebrate VE Day and continue to do so every year , Sally ' s family and many other like they feel forget . do the Minister agree that these VJ Day celebration will give those man and woman and their family the honour they deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention , and for remember Frank Jeremy Hedges in her remark . it be so important that we remember all those who serve in every part of the second world war . just as we remember all those who serve in the european theatre and who lose their life , or who go to war and come back forever change , we must remember all those who serve in the far east , across the Pacific and the indian ocean , and far afield as well . we must tell their story with pride , so that their sacrifice live on . while we celebrate VJ Day on 15 August , as we should , do the Minister agree that we should also encourage school to mark that anniversary when term resume , so that young people remember the sacrifice that so many make and the story of so many valiant veteran and armed force personnel ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , which give I an opportunity to inform the House that there be resource available for our school . " our Shared Story " be one of those resource , which will enable people to find out more and tell the story in a way that be age - appropriate for all our young people . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that matter in the Chamber today . eighty year may have pass since VJ Day , but that can never diminish the triumph of that extraordinary world war two generation — the great generation — or the unimaginable sacrifice they make to secure a legacy of peace and freedom . when we commemorate the 80th anniversary of VJ Day , we will particularly remember the british and Commonwealth hero who fight across the Indo - Pacific . we will remember those who fall on the battlefield ; those who endure some of the most hostile combat environment in the history of warfare ; those who be sink on ship in ocean far from home ; those who suffer terribly in prison camp , or on force labour construction project ; those who continue fight in the far east for another three month after VE Day ; and those few survive veteran of the campaign who be still with we today . we be eternally grateful to every one of they . let the united message from this House go out : " thank you for your service . " remembrance be not passive , and our duty do not end with word — it require action . as we have hear in this debate , there will be event across the nation invite people to take a moment out of their day to remember those who serve . just as we do for VE Day , we must do for VJ Day . do my hon . friend agree that , although of course there be victory over Japan , the second world war be victory over fascism and over those who trample on human right , democracy and freedom ? Japan , once an enemy , be now an ally , defend the value of civilisation alongside our force . do he far agree that when my constituent light a beacon in Hillmorton on 15 August , it will be a beacon of hope in our troubled world , and that we owe a debt of gratitude to those whose sacrifice make that victory possible ? I thank my hon . friend for that . a theme pick up by a number of colleague , include the Chair of the Defence Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , be that old adversary can become good friend . when there be rise tension and conflict in the world , it be worth remember , 80 year on from VE and VJ Day , that those nation that be at war with we all those decade ago now stand alongside we , with share value and a share outlook on the world . that be an important message to send . in the moment leave to I , I will mention a few of the speech that we have hear today . I be particularly grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) . as the MP for the other shipyard , as she describe Devonport in the debate , let I say how pleased I be that she mention the sacrifice of the Royal Navy and all those who serve in our Pacific fleet . I think in particular of those brave sailor who serve on HMS Prince of Wales , HMS Electra and HMS Exeter , which go down in the east Java sea . those shipwreck be war grave . although we can not see they in the same way we can see the row of headstone in the cemetery and the D - Day beach , it be none the less important that we preserve they , protect they and tell the story of those who serve . I be grateful to all those who speak about the importance of the Commonwealth force , include my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , who speak about his grandfather who serve . indeed , a number of member talk about their family member who serve , include the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) , and the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , whose remark about everyday folk who get catch up in war and do extraordinary thing I find exactly right in the story that we must tell . my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) speak powerfully about Donald Rose , and the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) speak about his family member who fight in Burma . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) put Ken Tinkler on the record , and he be right to do so . the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) speak about the story of evil that be prosecute in war , and he be right to put that on the record . the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) speak about the important contribution of people from his constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) speak about Harold Rhodes and the death railway , and that powerful story will be tell often as we approach VJ Day itself . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) , who speak about her grandfather , who be award the Burma Star . the hon . member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) , who mention Charles Snelling , powerfully invite not just member of the House but all those watch to choose a name on a war memorial and find out the story behind those name , why they matter , and why their story continue to be tell . my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) speak passionately not only about the Gurkhas , who I know she be proud to represent , but about Frank Mole , a prisoner of war . it be so important in this debate that we remember all those who serve in our force , as well as the civilian who die in the conflict , many of whom will not have name on war memorial . equally , we must remember all those who die in Hiroshima and Nagasaki when the atomic bomb be drop that bring the war to a close . in the moment leave to I , I join the shadow Defence Secretary , who speak so well about the debate , and echo the word of John Maxwell Edmonds in the Kohima epitaph : " when you go home , tell they of we and say , for your tomorrow , we give our today . " question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the 80th anniversary of victory over Japan . petition - Redundancies at Lancaster University I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent , specifically those who be member of the University and College Union , Unite and Unison , whose representative I meet recently . in that context , I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my constituent be concerned about potential job loss at Lancaster University , and the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure university be support to ensure security of employment for staff and a high - quality learning experience for student . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Lancaster and Wyre , declare that Lancaster University be currently consider a series of staff redundancy , initially voluntary , which could see the University lose around 450 job , with compulsory redundancy not rule out . staff trade union , UCU , Unite and Unison , be consult with their member and be concerned about the job loss as well as the impact on the wide area with the Lancaster District benefit from have a successful university in its footprint . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure university be support to ensure security of employment for staff and a high - quality learning experience for student . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003100 ] Petition - Parking Enforcement at Castle Bromwich Infant School I rise to present a petition on behalf of resident of the Castle Bromwich ward in my constituency . it call for Solihull metropolitan borough council to take action on the increase number of parking violation in the area of Castle Bromwich infant and nursery school , where over the last 12 month parking practice have deteriorate . this be extremely inconsiderate : it be block resident ' drive and destroy the grass verge , and it be incredibly unfair on those who live locally . to make matter bad , when parking warden visit they tell the school staff that they be limit in the enforcement action that they could take because one of the " no parking " sign on Hurst Lane have fall down . most crucially , however , dangerous parking pose a serious safety risk to the child who have to cross the road with very poor visibility because of the selfish parking . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Solihull Borough Council to increase the frequency of parking enforcement around the school at drop - off and pick - up time , and to reinstall " the road safety sign " on Hurst Lane North to deter car from parking illegally . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident in the Castle Bromwich Ward of the Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North Constituency , declare that the scale of parking violation around Castle Bromwich Infant School have worsen significantly in the last 12 month , with car park illegally over drive , pavement , and double yellow line . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Solihull Borough Council to increase the frequency of parking enforcement around the school at drop - off and pick - up time , and to reinstall a road sign on Hurst Lane North to deter car from parking illegally . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003101 ] extend the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) I be happy to have secure this debate on Homes for Ukraine and the Ukraine permission extension scheme . the full - scale invasion of Ukraine by Putin ' s Russia start on 24 February 2022 , eight year after the russian invasion of Crimea in 2014 . now in its fourth year , this awful war have see some 7 million member of the ukrainian population of 45 million — more than 15 % of the population — seek sanctuary outside the war zone . just under 270 , 000 visa under the Homes for Ukraine scheme have be issue to ukrainian guest here in the UK , of whom 2 , 399 be in Devon . initially offer a three - year duration , the scheme be extend by 18 month under the Ukraine permission extension scheme in February 2025 , nearly six month ago . that mean that , with missile and drone fall in record number on the city of Ukraine , our guest who have integrate into society , take job , rent flat and pay taxis be start to face the fact that few than 12 month be leave on their visa , which make it hard , if not impossible , to rent a new flat or get a new job . let I give the House some basic fact about where we be today . new arrival now only get 18 month to stay . the visa give a special status to ukrainian guest . they do not have refugee status ; they do have the right to work , and they be support by funding — for example , the monthly host payment , or help with rent . the three year plus the 18 month do not count towards any settle status here in the UK . the 18 - month extension can be apply for only in the final 28 day of the original grant visa . I be grateful to my hon . friend for secure this debate , and for his excellent remark . I be aware of two case in my constituency in which , as he say , constituent have only be allow to apply 28 day before the deadline for extension , yet UK Visas and Immigration give itself a standard service time of eight week to respond to extension request . in both case , it have leave my constituent unable to commit to much - want travel with their family in the window after the 28 day have elapse but before they have receive the extension . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should look at that ? I absolutely agree , and people in that situation be very worried — I have several in my own constituency . I have speak to group of guest in Newton Abbot , and they be mostly work , get on with integrate into the local community and strongly support each other . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this issue forward . the reason so many of we be here be that it impact each and every one of we , and I have a very strong ukrainian contingent in my constituency . many refugee have make their home in our constituency — in Newton Abbot , Strangford and elsewhere . ukrainian child be be educate in our school and make life for themselves , with their parent work , pay tax and spending in the local community . do the hon . Gentleman agree that that must continue with as little stress and hassle as possible ? the fact be that Ukrainians have become an integral part of all our community . I thank the hon . member for his intervention and I absolutely agree . Ukrainians be scared of what happen next , and we have no answer for they . they see report of their countryman be refuse asylum in the UK because it be say to be safe to return to Ukraine , even while Putin ' s drone explode in Ukraine ' s city in record number . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate . he be make an important point . I have hear from a number of Ukrainians — particularly those from the east of the country — who can not return home , as their home town have be destroy . they be look for a more permanent solution than the temporary solution that we have . they have integrate well into british society . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should look at a permanent solution for people in that situation ? yes , I believe that we should be look for a permanent solution and a permanent answer for the Ukrainians , and that be why I ask the Prime Minister about it last week . his answer be more positive than before , and he even appear to say that another 18 month would be add . I ask the Minister to clarify that statement . I have a ukrainian guest who say they feel safe and settle in Berkhamsted and can not return , and be ask for a long - term solution . do my hon . friend agree that we need to look at example of solution , such as that in Poland , through which we can provide certainty for the Ukrainians here ? yes , we need to do exactly that . if the UK be to support the defence of Ukraine , we must continue to support the vulnerable ukrainian guest in our country and to give they some certainty about their future . in my discussion with group around the Newton Abbot constituency , I have hear many of their concern . we have one family with a 17 - year - old son with they . ukrainian child passport have a duration of just four year , and they have to renew his passport . he have be tell to do that , but he will need to return to Kyiv . his parent be now worried that he will either not be allow to get back here , or not be allow to stay here with an expired passport . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for make this debate possible . can he explain to the House the attitude of the ukrainian Government ? be it the case that most of the people here be dependant — woman and child ? give that it be originally think that Ukraine would be quickly overrun and the circumstance be very different , be it also the case that the ukrainian Government now want to see more of their citizen come back to defend the homeland ? the right hon . Gentleman have obviously be read my speech . I shall get on to that shortly . I have speak to a ukrainian lady and her elderly mother in Newton Abbot . this lady have lose her husband , her son and her father . her home in Ukraine be in the Russian - occupy zone and , like much of her village , have be raze to the ground . even when peace do break out , what do she have to go back to , other than landmine and unexploded bomb ? Ukraine be the home of the fabled cossack , and it be no wonder that the war be not over in the three week or so that Putin expect . however , that mean that we have to think long term about the Homes for Ukraine scheme visa . I mention that there be now some 7 million Ukrainians , out of the original population of 45 million , safely outside the country — that be 15 % , or about one sixth in old money . it will not be practical for all of they to return to a country with a shattered infrastructure for a number of year . clearing landmine , deal with unexploded bomb , demolition and rebuilding must be do before most of the guest we have here could think about return . my basic ask of the Minister and the Government be to look at a long - term extension of the Homes for Ukraine scheme to give our guest certainty , in some part of their life at least . could we ask the Minister for clarity about the woman who have dependent child or elderly relative , who be often unable to meet the income threshold require under settlement route such as the skilled worker visa or the global talent visa ? could we also ask for clarity for their child , who have learn English so that they be so fluent and who have have their education here , as they can not look forward to go to college or university because they do not have a visa that will see they through that course ? very much so . in my meeting , people have be ask about these different visa and route , not many of which work . first , I be proud to say that the resident of my constituency have open their home and their heart to many ukrainian family flee this horrific conflict . they be now our neighbour and friend , they work or study , and they be part of our community . do my hon . friend agree that we a need bespoke route to permanent residency for Ukrainians who want to stay in the UK ? I absolutely agree , and this be now urgent as guest start to have less than 12 month on their visa . have the hon . Member see the research produce by the University of Birmingham on the experience of ukrainian refugee in circumstance such as those he describe , particularly loss of employment and loss of tenancy ? do he agree that landlord and employer should not be act in this way , that to do so may be discrimination on the ground of nationality , and that some form of remediation need to be find in these case ? I thank the hon . member for mention a report from my old university , which I will go away and look up . however , I think this be more about get the visa extend , rather than pursue the people who be refuse they . I congratulate the hon . member on securing tonight ' s debate . last month , I have the great honour and privilege of meet the ukrainian family who have make their home in my constituency . it now be their home , and they be so very welcome . I have a personal private conversation with each and every one of they individually , and everyone say to I that they so desperately need stability and security , which the current bespoke Ukraine permission extension scheme do not provide , because 18 month be too short , particularly for young student progress from secondary school in Scotland to university . do he agree with I that the Government must urgently review the short - term nature of their stay ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention and will be move on to that shortly . I have be impress by the way that the Ukrainians do not sit back , but get up and get work . in many case , they have take job way below their qualification while they learn the language , settle in and find their way . their child have integrate into school and set out on path to GCSE , a - level and degree course . despite the fact that they do not have the confidence that they will have a visa that cover the duration of those course , they be still work hard at they . I have one guest who be a fully qualified ukrainian dentist — and we need dentist , especially in Devon . he have do the first part of verify his qualification for the UK , but it have take many month and cost £ 600 . however , to become a fully qualified dentist , he need to spend £ 4 , 300 and more time , and the wait time alone may make that futile , give the short time leave on his visa . another bright young student have start a dentistry qualification at Plymouth University , but she ask I if she would be allow to stay to finish it . another family want to get a mortgage to buy a house , but they can not give the time leave on their visa . they be brave , inventive and industrious people , and we need to help they by extend their visa scheme . do the hon . member agree with I that the Homes for Ukraine scheme matter ? it be not just an immigration policy ; it be about real family who have make a home in our community . I be particularly think of a wonderful couple who come along to my surgery . the woman , who come from Ukraine , be work with a charity and bring her son , and be get marry to one of my constituent on 25 July . absolutely . I would like to give a couple of story from Ukrainians here . I be keep an eye on the time . this be from Anya Glebova in north Devon , who be host by Julie . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker , for use the word " you " . these be her word : " how do you live during the war ? and can a person who have not experience it understand we ? I think not , because I myself do not believe that such a thing be possible in our time . but it turn out it be possible . that morning will remain in my memory for a long time , when I wake up to collect the child for school and a man who be in Odessa call and say that the war have begin , they be shell we . to say that it be horror would be an understatement , but a completely different life begin for we . since no one expect this , panic begin : empty shelf in store , light go out and terrible alarm signal . my child and I go to bed dress , so that at night during the alarm we could quickly run to the basement where we decide to hide . a suitcase with document be constantly pack in the basement ; there be warm thing and blanket . when you hear a rocket , your thought be about the child and how to save they . missile alarm become our daily routine : child play hear the alarm and run to the basement or to the house where we make a small shelter . my husband be invite to the military registration and enlistment office , and take to war . we be leave alone at home without support and with constant worry . why do we decide to move ? because as a mother , I want a peaceful life for my child . I want they to sleep peacefully and study , so that they can see life . when I arrive here , not only the child but also I be afraid when a helicopter fly overhead . we see a plane overhead when with my son in the garden , and it fly very low . I freeze and when I turn around I see my son , who be sit by a tree , scream at I . the horror of war can not be put into word . it be when you go to sleep and don ' t know whether you will wake up . it be when life can end in a minute . this be universal , since every day bring its own experience , pain and despair . it can not be describe . my husband make the decision for we to leave Ukraine , probably because he see much more . for I , it be a difficult step , firstly , to leave my husband without support . he sometimes come home for two day , and it be always a holiday for our family . secondly , to leave the home where the child grow up , where there be dream , where every corner have its own story . but the safety of the child come first , so we decide to leave . not know the language and take a backpack with we , we set off for the UK , where our host Julie meet we . a new stage in our life begin . thank to Julie , we gradually get to know , and continue to get to know , the local system . my daughter immediately go to school where she be happily accept , and she begin to meet new classmate . recently , she see a plane high in the sky , take a picture and send it to her father , say that it be a piece of peaceful sky . my son be prepare to enter college , be study English and go to the gym . I be almost immediately offer a job , where I work without know English . a foreign country , unfamiliar custom , lack of knowledge of the language — all this be cover by the sensitivity and care of people around we . the ukrainian diaspora support everyone , learn the language , help to solve problem and always be in touch . thank you for give a peaceful sky to our child ! " I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . he talk about child . there be child in my constituency who come here as very small child and have only ever be in the english education system . their parent be deeply concerned about what will happen to they go forward , so it would be appropriate for we to look to put in place permanent measure as soon as humanly possible . I be sure he would also want to join I in thank the host family in my constituency , who I be so proud of and grateful to , and Refugees Welcome , which continue to work to help ukrainian family integrate in our community . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention and I absolutely agree . I want briefly to mention another story . this be of Mariia and Ksenia in north Devon , write by their host Helen . I apologise for my ukrainian pronunciation . they say : " on 21 June Oleh Yurash age 28 be kill in Sumy in a missile strike . he be the husband of Liudmyla Yurash also 28 and father to Roman , four year old . Liudmyla be the sister of Mariia and Ksenia Yurash , my adult guest . he be almost unrecognisable . Mariia and Ksenia travel back to Ukraine to attend his funeral . Liudmyla be also car for their mother , who recently have a stroke . the girl ' father want they to stay in the UK , where Mariia and her daughter be safe from the war , especially as Mariia be a single mother and the Russians have be kidnap child . Mila be settle in the only school she have know , start year 3 in September . Ksenia be study in order to be able to go to university . there be little education in Ukraine at the moment . they have already lose a brother and their father be fight for his country . the thing that keep he go be that his two young daughter be safe . I hope that you can get the Government to see that we need to carry on support our ukrainian family . " I ask the Prime Minister last week about extend the scheme , and the Home Secretary be ask about it in a Select Committee on 3 June . however , the situation be change . Ukraine ' s Government publicly change their position in late May , ask all government where Ukrainians have seek safety and sanctuary since spring 2022 to provide they with a choice : to remain where their life be be rebuild or to return to Ukraine when it be safe to do so . I thank my hon . friend for bring forward this debate . only last month I have a resident in my constituency office desperate to renew urgently the visa of the ukrainian she be host . I be sure my hon . friend will join I in say that while the hero of Ukraine fight Putin , for we as much as for they , we should stand guard over their family . the war seem far from end — perhaps more protract than ever . the EU clarify its position , extend temporary protection for all guest to March 2027 and require all member state to find way for guest to have pathway to residency or settlement within those two year . the Home Secretary comment in a Select Committee that continue the stability of education for child , university student and adult in training or apprenticeship be key and that enable that continuity through housing and job be an important part of the Government ' s support for Ukraine . we need the Government to review the short - term nature of the Ukraine permission extension scheme urgently . without urgent change , we be at serious risk of put thousand of Ukrainians — child as well as parent — into homelessness or bad , as the term of their visa will be too short for they to carry on . we owe they much well treatment than we be currently give they . I be sure that my hon . friend will want to share his sympathy for Julia in my constituency , who no long have her flat or any accommodation back in Ukraine . she have secure a job with a legal firm that wish to train she up and get she qualified , but she now find that she may no long be secure and safe in this country . that be a dreadful situation . I really hope that the Minister can give we some positive news , or at least a glimmer of hope of where we can go . I be grateful to the hon . member for Newton Abbot ( Martin Wrigley ) for secure this debate on what be an important topic for we all . I know that he be a committed advocate for Ukrainians who have seek sanctuary in the UK , particularly in his constituency . I be also grateful to member from across the House for their contribution . the people of Devon have help with the integration of more than 2 , 300 Ukrainians under the Homes for Ukraine scheme , as the hon . Gentleman reference , and Devon be one of the few county support over 2 , 000 Ukrainians . I thank he and everyone in Devon for make such a welcome contribution to what be , as we be all aware , very much a national effort . on that note , I want to recognise the contribution and story that have be share in this thought - provoke and important debate . we should honour the effort and sacrifice make by family who have find themselves split up and live in different country during this unprovoked war , with the constant and daily anguish that it will bring . I pay tribute to the many local authority across the country and to the british public for the incredible generosity that have be show to our ukrainian guest . will the Minister give way ? I be conscious of time ; I will try to make some progress before take an intervention shortly . since their launch , the ukrainian scheme have offer or extend sanctuary to more than 300 , 000 Ukrainians and their family . this be an outstanding response , and one that underline the deep sympathy and compassion that people across the UK feel towards those who need sanctuary here . rise — I will give way first to the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) . the Minister refer to the anguish feel by the ukrainian family who have be displace . do she recognise that uncertainty over visa condition add to the anguish face by those family here in the UK , and indeed to that of their very generous host ? will she therefore commit to review the situation and give they hope for the future ? I thank the hon . Lady for that intervention , and I will comment on that matter directly in this debate . I want to take this opportunity to emphasise that the Government ' s support for Ukraine remain utterly steadfast . member will also be aware of the UK - Ukraine 100 - year partnership , which be sign by the Prime Minister early this year . the landmark commitment not only build on the close relationship we already have with Ukraine , but seek to formalise close co - operation in a number of key area such as trade , security , energy , science and technology , and educational benefit , include a youth compact . it be important that we see that work ongoing , with the partnership bring economic , cultural and educational benefit to both our country not just now , but in future . will the Minister join I in do two thing ? the first be congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on his excellent tie action this evening , which be massively on point . secondly , and more importantly , will she join I in pay tribute to all those in Newcastle - under - Lyme who have provide sanctuary , safety and security to the Ukrainians who have make their life in our corner of Staffordshire , not least because they stand with the people of Ukraine against Putin and his tyranny ? I be indeed very grateful to my hon . friend ' s constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme for the work they have do and the welcome they have provide . on that subject , I have see the work that have go on in my own constituency at Cranford community college , along with one World Strong , lead by Alan Fraser and Kevin Prunty , an initiative that build relationship and partnership between school , allow young people in the UK and Ukraine to share their life , their challenge and their outlook . I will turn to the Home Office ' s role within what be clearly a cross - Government effort . the Department work closely with key partner include the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , which have a close relationship with local authority , devolve Governments and the European Union . this weekend I meet with Karine Osipyan and Artur Manucharyan , who have be tell by the Home Office that they be grant permission under the Ukraine family scheme in error , and that their application under the Ukraine permission extension scheme might not be grant . I write to the Home Office at the beginning of June on their case but we have yet to hear back . will the Minister look into this case specifically and meet I to discuss it far ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that case . he will understand that I can not comment on individual case on the Floor of the House , but I assure he that my official have his constituent ' detail and will certainly review their case , and I will update he in the come day . member have ask about any further extension to the Ukraine permission extension scheme , which we introduce in February to provide an additional 18 month of permission to stay in the UK , with continue access to work , benefit , healthcare and education , as the Prime Minister refer to in Prime Minister ' s question last week . however , I confirm to the House that we will be extend the leave beyond 18 month . we be still work on the detail of that and will update the House as soon as possible . that be important . I understand the comment , question and challenge and the need to provide certainty , particularly in relation to education , which be also very much on the Home Secretary ' s mind . I thank the Minister very much for that announcement ; I really appreciate it . I thank the hon . Gentleman . indeed , it have be very much on the Government ' s mind for a number of month as we have be work through the detail . it should be recognise that we be work with the ukrainian embassy and other stakeholder across the country , include the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain , as well as the European Commission and other international partner . it be important to come to a position that balance our responsibility to those on the scheme and citizen of Ukraine more broadly , along with work alongside the Ukrainian Government in relation to their wish . only recently I be speak to a ukrainian friend who express some concern , so they will be extremely grateful for the Minister ' s comment . I would like to put on the record that the ukrainian community in my constituency do wonderful work for the Ukrainians here in our community . I thank my hon . friend , who have put that on the record extremely effectively . I thank the hon . member for Newton Abbot once again for secure the debate . the United Kingdom have rightly offer support and sanctuary to our ukrainian friend in their hour of need , include through the scheme that we have discuss . we should all reflect on that with pride . the Government will continue to do right by the ukrainian people . question put and agree to . House adjourn .