Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Parole Board consideration mechanism what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the Parole Board reconsideration mechanism . the reconsideration mechanism introduce in July 2019 be a vital tool for public protection , allow Ministers to intervene in broad case where there be concern that the decision to release be irrational or procedurally flawed , or where there have be an error of law . since 2019 , this Government have use the mechanism to have 17 release decision retake by the Parole Board . nine of those result in the board reverse its original decision to direct release , include the recent case of Colin Pitchfork . the Treasurer of his Majesty ' s Household , my right hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Mr Jones ) , and I have both raise concern about the release of Edwin Hopkins , the schoolgirl killer of Naomi Smith . I know that the Secretary of State can not retrospectively apply the law around parole , but will he assure my constituent and resident in neighbour Nuneaton that the new law in the Victims and Prisoners Bill go through Parliament at the moment put public safety at the heart of future Parole Board decision ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that extremely troubling case . the murder commit by Edwin Hopkins be a truly dreadful crime , and I understand the concern about the release of prisoner who have commit such heinous offence . the reform in the Victims and Prisoners Bill do ensure that public safety be at the forefront of parole decision , include by codify the release test in law and introduce a new power to allow the Secretary of State to direct a second check on the release of some of the most serious offender . I thank the Lord Chancellor for his response and his clear commitment to ensure that victim be consider . as the Member of Parliament for Strangford , many people contact I about those get early parole and decision that be make . will he reassure I and the House that victim will be consider and contact before any person who have carry out an evil crime be actually release ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . it be one thing be a victim of a crime in the first place but another not be keep update on progress of the sentence of that individual , or indeed a parole decision . that be why we be absolutely committed through the victim code and other mechanism to ensure that victim be keep update , include during the important parole process . child Sexual Exploitation : Historical case what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the time take to schedule court hearing for historical case of child sexual exploitation on survivor and their family . the House should be in no doubt as to how urgently we be work to accelerate justice . we will have recruit 1 , 000 new judge by the end of this year and extend the use of 24 Nightingale courtroom , and we fund a record number of sit day in court last year . we have transform how we support victim of sexual violence offence through the criminal justice system , include with the use of nearly 1 , 000 independent sexual violence adviser — some of those be especially for child — the nationwide roll - out of section 28 evidence procedure and pre - court familiarisation for vulnerable witness . my constituent have to wait several year before her historical child sexual exploitation case be finally hear . during that time , the court date be cancel twice , cause her immense distress . there be a backlog of about 65 , 000 crown court case — a third more there than in 2020 — and nearly a third be wait more than one year , compare with 10 % in 2020 . I appreciate what the Minister say about the additional barrister and judge recruit , but give the sensitive nature of these case , could she indicate what percentage of the backlog be down to that and what she and her team be do specifically to address it ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady , who have raise this issue before . she will know that listing be a matter for the independent judiciary , but I do not seek to hide behind that . actually , I would like to meet she to discuss the specific reason for adjourn the case she talk about , because we might be able to do something to help . I draw the hon . Lady ' s attention to two important thing . a new police taskforce set up by the Government to support historical child sex abuse investigation have lead to a 20 % increase in child sex charge in the past year alone . in addition to that , I will say this . Greater Manchester currently have 59 live investigation into child sexual abuse . these be complex case involve multiple perpetrator and multiple victim . in one case that recently go all the way through the court , the perpetrator do not even know each other — they have never meet — so even the decision about how the group be arrange , how the case be allocate and the length of time it will need for list be particularly complex . I would like to meet she , for the reason I give . Victim Support what step his Department be take to support victim of crime . what step his Department be take to support victim of crime . what step his Department be take to support victim of crime . support victim have broadly three element . first , it mean ensure harmful behaviour be comprehensively criminalise . that be why we have legislate to create new offence of stalk , coercive and control behaviour , upskirting , revenge porn , non - fatal strangulation and cyberflashing . secondly , it mean ensure that the punishment fit the crime , which be why the average sentence have increase by around 50 % since 2010 . thirdly , it mean support victim before , during and after the court process . that be why we be fund over 1 , 000 independent sexual violence adviser and independent domestic violence adviser by 2024 - 25 , we have set up a 24 / 7 rape support helpline , and we be quadruple funding for victim ' service in cash term since 2010 . Cuckooing be not a victimless crime . the victim whose home be invade be frequently extremely vulnerable . will the Secretary of State consider a separate specific offence of cuckoo in the Criminal Justice Bill to ensure not just that the punishment fit the crime , but that the crime fit the crime ? my hon . friend have be brilliant in raise this issue time and time again . at least in part because of the pressure she have put on , we hold a stakeholder engagement exercise on this issue with the police , criminal justice system partner , local authority , other Government Departments and so on . the exercise reveal that there be civil order and criminal offence which be available to disrupt it . it might be , for example , that the underlie offence be the possession of drug with intent to supply , the possession of firearm or common assault . however , this issue be worthy of further consideration , so I will invite a conversation with she in due course . last week , I be contact by a constituent who have be name in the local press as a victim of domestic abuse against their express wish . as my right hon . and learn Friend will appreciate , name have the potential to endanger their safety and harm their recovery . what more can be do to safeguard the confidentiality of victim of domestic abuse ? my hon . friend raise an absolutely essential point , because give evidence be a deeply traumatic experience . power in section 46 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 allow the court , on application , to make a decision about anonymity and to take account of the circumstance of the allege offending , the alleged offender , the alleged victim , and so on . that be a matter for the court . the court have to weigh the circumstance of the case against the overarch interest of transparency . that be a matter on which the court be well place to decide . Carshalton and Wallington be suppose to be one of the safe part of London , but it have be shock by a number of knife and violent crime incident recently , include a knife attack in Wallington Sainsbury ' s on Christmas eve , which be traumatic not only for those involve but for those who witness it . can my right hon . and learn Friend assure I that victim and witness of terrible crime can get access to help and support while they wait for the police to build a case ? I thank my hon . friend for draw the attention of the House to that appalling incident . yes , it be absolutely imperative that both victim and witness can access support in the aftermath of such shocking crime . as I indicate , we be quadruple funding for victim and witness support by 2024 - 25 on 2010 level . this be important . under the 2006 victim code that we inherit , support be available only for direct victim . we have change that , so it be now available for witness who have suffer mental or emotional harm . the Government leave the role of Victims ' Commissioner unfille for over a year and to this day have refuse to place any duty on public body to co - operate with the postholder . will the Government and the Secretary of State explain why they have not support labour ' s proposal to give the role the same power as the Domestic Abuse Commissioner have over public authority such as the police ? the Victims ' commissioner play an important role and we be delighted that Baroness Newlove be take it on again . she have an exemplary track record . the role sit within a wide approach that we be take , which be to ensure , through the Victims and Prisoners Bill and through the revise victim code and so on , that victim go from be spectator of the criminal justice process to participant in it . I know the Victims ' Commissioner will help we on that journey . what be be do to ensure that victim of crime , particularly violent crime , get the necessary mental health support they require , particularly where they can suffer ongoing mental health issue and trauma beyond the period of the crime itself ? the hon . Gentleman raise an absolutely essential point . as I indicate , we be quadruple funding for victim ' service on 2010 level . part of that be direct through police and crime commissioner to procure and commission precisely the kind of support he have indicate . what I be also able to say be that in those tragic case that result in a fatality , the Homicide Service be now well resource to provide ongoing support . that may be physical support , but it may also , sadly , be the mental support that be desperately need . rehabilitation of Prisoners : Prison Estate what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of the prison estate for the rehabilitation of prisoner . in December last year we complete an estate - wide programme of survey to assess the condition of each public sector prison , and I look forward to see the finding of those survey . by the end of the current spending review period we will have invest nearly £ 4 billion towards the delivery of an additional 20 , 000 modern prison place to ensure that the right condition be in place for the rehabilitation of prisoner , and in the last full financial year we spend more than £ 200 million on maintenance and upgrade — alongside , of course , our continued investment in purposeful activity within the prison estate . I be delighted to receive an invitation from the Minister ' s colleague the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , to join he on a visit to Wormwood Scrubs Prison in my constituency this Thursday , but less delighted when the invitation be withdraw yesterday on the basis that it have be " issue in error " . have I be permit to attend , I would have raise the subject of the letter send to the Lord Chancellor on 7 December by 10 chair of independent monitoring board for London area prison , include Wormwood Scrubs , which state that " prison be overcrowded , not safe and most of those in prison do not lead a ' useful ' life " . in the absence of a reply to that letter , can the Prisons Minister tell we how he intend to make prison fit for rehabilitation , give that , accord to trade union source , there be a maintenance backlog amount to £ 3 billion ? if the hon . Gentleman would like to visit the Scrubs with I — and I be not issue this one in error — I shall be happy to accompany he on a visit to his local prison . as I have say , we continue to invest in our prison estate . we also continue to invest in increase the number of prison officer — to whom I pay tribute for the work that they do day in , day out ; I suspect that those on the Opposition Front Bench would join I in that — and to invest in purposeful activity . the effort that we have put in across the estate be work , as be show by the proportion of prison leaver who be in employment six month after their release , which have more than double in the two year to March 2023 . I look forward to discuss this far with the hon . gentleman in his local prison . order . as a Member of Parliament with a prison in his area , I find it disappointing that that invitation be withdraw from a Member of Parliament with a prison in his own area . that be not how Members of Parliament should be treat , and I hope that the question of why a Member of Parliament have be refuse access to a facility in his constituency will be investigate . I understand from my hon . friend the Under - Secretary of State that the invitation be send in error by the office — it be not mean to be send — but I be happy to honour that invitation . I hope that the Minister will look into this , because I be concerned about access for member of Parliament . I now call the Chair of the Select Committee . I will not go on about how I might have get people into Wormwood Scrubs in the past in one way or another — [ interruption ] — and , indeed , get some of they out ! I be sure the Minister will know that a key point that come up time and again in report from his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison , and when issue be raise by the Justice Committee , be the lack of purposeful activity . the physical estate be part of that problem , but so be issue relate to staffing and access to education and other provision . be it perhaps time for a strategy for the whole of the Prison Service with rehabilitation at its centre , and might not one solution to the problem be a statutory definition of the purpose of prison , of which rehabilitation — along with protection of the public — would be a key part ? would that not be a way of hold people ' s foot to the fire in order to deliver rehabilitation in the public interest ? I shall certainly be happy to have that discussion with my hon . friend if he feel that it would be useful . he be right to highlight the importance of adequate staff number , but I should point out that they have increase by 6 . 7 % in the past year . I be also happy to tell he that this month we be launch the national regime model , which will require prison to set out ambitious plan for dedicated purposeful activity — time out of cell . that will indeed hold their foot to the fire , because , as we know , such a regime be central to rehabilitation . I call the shadow Minister . the late figure show that the reoffende rate among those leave prison have increase . that be partly because prison be fail to rehabilitate — which be no surprise , give how overcrowded , understaffed and dangerously unsafe many prison be . in one case , after heavy rain , prison officer be have to wade through raw sewage while prisoner remain lock in their cell . do the Minister accept that the appalling state of our prison be not only fail to reduce crime , but breed it ? the hon . Lady will not be surprised to hear that I do not agree with her assessment . I would highlight that reoffende rate be down on where they be when we inherit they in 2010 . I have highlight to the hon . Lady the investment in new staff and in our building . I would also highlight to she , and I hope that we will enjoy her support on this , the success of tough community sentence in reduce reoffende , compare with sentence of few than 12 month . I look forward to her support in deliver those change . I be go to remain on the subject of the prison estate . the Minister make a valiant attempt to defend the Conservatives ' woeful record on prison , but they be fail to build the prison space we need to reduce this cycle of crime . just last week it be reveal that the Government have build only 380 of the 1 , 000 pop - up prison cell that they promise by the end of 2023 . therefore , can the Minister at the very least confirm when the remain 620 pop - up place will be build ? I would gently say to the hon . Lady that we will take no lesson on prison building from the Labour party — the party that promise three titan prison , with 7 , 500 place . how many be build ? zero . this be a Government who be commit to build 20 , 000 new , state - of - the - art prison place . two prison have already be build . one be in construction . one have just receive planning permission , and I be hopeful that the other two of the six will receive that in due course . access to Legal Advice what step he be take to increase early access to legal advice . last year we spend £ 1 billion on civil legal aid to support the most vulnerable , and we recognise the potential benefit of early legal advice in support people to resolve their problem early . for example , last year we launch a £ 10 million housing loss prevention advice service . we invest in advice for welfare benefit issue , and early legal advice be also available for victim of domestic abuse in private family law proceeding , subject to the relevant mean and evidence requirement . we will continue to invest in legal aid where we can see a benefit . I thank the Minister for that response . like many member across this House , I regularly have constituent come to I with many legal issue need legal advice and support . obviously , many member be not appropriately qualified to offer that legal advice and support . Citizens Advice in Stoke - on - Trent be do an excellent job try to support many of my constituent with legal issue , but do my hon . friend agree that it be vital that member of the public get timely and affordable legal advice when they need it ? my hon . friend be right to praise the work of voluntary organisation such as Citizens Advice , and as I say in my original answer , we agree that investing have benefit . that be why , since 2015 , we have invest more than £ 25 million to support litigant in person , include our current grant funding of around £ 10 . 4 million for improve outcome to legal support grant . that be support 59 organisation across England and Wales , enable they to provide urgent legal support and advice to help people resolve their legal problem . that be in addition to the investment in provide support on domestic violence , special guardianship order , housing loss prevention and immigration . in its Green Paper publish in October 2023 , the Law Society set out reform to legal aid to help more people get early advice . can the Justice Secretary confirm what discussion he have have with the Treasury , in advance of the Budget in March , regard potential increase to the legal aid budget , and that Scotland will receive its share through Barnett consequential ? I can confirm that , follow the Bellamy report and the implementation of what be know as CLAIR — the criminal legal aid independent review — we have invest over £ 141 million extra in the legal aid system , address many of the concern that legal practitioner , include the Law Society , have raise . I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that I be in constant dialogue with the Law Society on how we can improve legal advice for citizen . Human Rights Legislation what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of human right legislation . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of human right legislation . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of human right legislation . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of human right legislation . the United Kingdom have a long - stand tradition of ensure that right and liberty be protect domestically and of fulfil our international human right obligation . we remain committed to a human right framework that be up to date , fit for purpose and work for the british people . we have take , and be take , action to address specific issue with the Human Rights Act , include through the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , the Victims and Prisoners Bill and the Overseas Operations ( Service Personnel and Veterans ) Act 2021 , which address the vexatious claim against veteran and the armed force . the Rwanda Bill be the second piece of legislation that this Government have introduce that they can not guarantee will comply with vital convention right . do that not illustrate the total inadequacy of UK human right legislation ? any old government — even a crumble Tory Government — can rip up fundamental right without constraint , do over the Supreme Court in the process . no , I reject that characterisation . the european convention on human right , under article 13 , provide a right to an effective remedy . we think there be a perfectly respectable argument that our legislation fulfil that . we be commit to human right , and we think we have a route that safeguard those right and deliver on the interest of the british people . the human right campaign organisation just Fair have say that a human right Bill for Scotland would provide a blueprint for how the UK as a whole could enshrine social , economic and cultural right in domestic law . I be certain that the Scottish Government would be happy to share their experience and expertise in this area , so will the Secretary of State commit to engage with they , with a view to bring forward equivalent UK legislation , follow their example ? I completely agree on the common interest we share across the United Kingdom in want to advance social and economic right — put another way , ensure good job and good public service . of course that be right . what be questionable be whether it be sensible to make those right justiciable , as we would find people pursue all sort of action that clog up the court , leave they unable to deal with other matter . the hon . Gentleman be right on the principle we all want to achieve for people in our country . be he right in want more litigation and more legislation ? I think we have different view on that . the Scottish Government will bring forward a human right Bill for Scotland , which be the right thing to do . give the Justice Secretary ' s previous statement in support of human right and the ECHR , will he confirm his support for the scottish approach ? surely put human right at the heart of Government and the wide public sector be the right thing to do . it be important not to conflate those two thing . we be a member of the european convention on human right — I have already mention article 13 — but that do not , in and of itself , determine how one should give effect to those right . we already have the Human Rights Act 1998 . it be not at all clear to I that Scotland ' s propose human right Bill would advance human right across the United Kingdom , but of course we will listen carefully to whatever the Scottish Government decide to introduce . I be sure that the Secretary of State be aware that the ECHR and the HRA be integral to the Good Friday / Belfast agreement , set out a framework for the policing and the very governance of Northern Ireland . do he agree that any attempt to overhaul the ECHR and the HRA from this place could have serious consequence for the community of Northern Ireland ? we have a human right framework that we consider to be important . we be mindful of the point that the hon . Gentleman raise . we be satisfied that we can deliver on the priority of the british people . it be a perfectly reasonable priority to want to ensure that we have warm heart but an open front door , and we be satisfied that we can do so within our international legal obligation . it be reveal yesterday that , despite the good effort of the Home Office , an Albanian - speak migrant who have spend half his life in Serbia , and who have be jail in this country for 18 month for cannabis farming after have enter the UK illegally , have be allow to remain in Britain after he successfully claim that he can not be deport to Serbia because he no long speak Serbian . this be despite Albanian be a recognise minority language in Serbia , and despite he live in this country with his serbian brother . do this not demonstrate why we need urgent reform of the asylum system and human right law to allow the rapid and effective deportation of such dangerous criminal ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that those who come to our country and betray this nation ' s trust by act illegally should not expect a warm welcome . that be why one of the thing I be most proud of be sign a further prisoner transfer agreement with the Albanians to ensure that the british people , have suffer the initial crime , do not suffer the double punishment of have to pay £ 49 , 000 a year to house they in bed and breakfast accommodation in the United Kingdom . we will send they back , and that be exactly what we be do . I call the SNP spokesperson . may I take the Justice Secretary back to his interesting observation on the Rwanda Bill ? he have say that the whole debate around the echr " have be taint by a misunderstanding of what the actual right be , as though they be a foreign import that do not reflect some of the cultural norm in our country … nothing could be far from the truth . " — [ Official Report , 13 February 2019 ; Vol . 654 , c . 376WH . ] when it come to the Rwanda Bill , why be he fail to uphold the echr and the Human Rights Act , which embody so many of the legal principle that the people of these island hold so dear ? respectfully , I completely reject that characterisation . we be remain within the four corner of our international legal obligation . our legislation be novel and contentious , but it remain within the four corner of our international legal obligation and deliver on the proper , insistent requirement of the british people , which be that we protect our border and ensure fairness for all — for not only the british people , but those who have play by the rule and do the right thing when they have come to the UK . they will always have a warm welcome in our country . those who act illegally can expect short shrift . of course , the Government state on the front page of the Rwanda Bill that they can not guarantee that it comply with the echr , as the Justice Secretary well know . the Bill also make direct intrusion into devolved area , because human right be devolve to the Scottish Parliament . so will he confirm that a legislative consent motion will be seek from the Scottish Parliament on the safety of Rwanda ? the first point the hon . Gentleman be refer to be about the section 19 ( 1 ) ( b ) statement , and such statement be not unusual — the much - miss Tessa Jowell take one through in the Bill that become the Communications Act 2003 . there be nothing unusual about this , which be precisely why this provision be put in the Human Rights Act 1998 . as for further lcm , we will of course proceed in the normal way , and I will give that matter further consideration . custodial and Community Sentences if he will make a comparative assessment of the effectiveness of short custodial sentence and sentence serve in the community . a 2019 Ministry of Justice analysis of a match cohort of 30 , 000 offender show that those serve sentence of immediate custody of less than 12 month reoffend more often than similar offender serve a sentence in the community — 55 % of those sentence to less than 12 month ' immediate custody be convict in the follow 12 month , which compare with 32 % among those serve their sentence in the community . for year , I be a visitor at the Scrubs and at HMP Wandsworth . persuade I that community sentence can be really tough . I suggest that the outcome speak for itself . I call the shadow Minister . many , many more offender will be serve their sentence in the community as a result of the measure in the upcoming Sentencing Bill . we all know that the Government have have to rush these measure out to deal with the prison capacity crisis that they have create , but it be essential to recognise that these measure will rely heavily on a function probation service . with only one of the 33 probation delivery unit inspect be rate as " good " , and all other be rate as " require improvement " or " inadequate , " what additional resource have be put in place to ensure that potentially dangerous criminal be be properly monitor ? we have recently increase the budget for probation by £ 155 million and ramp up recruitment , with an additional 4 , 000 staff recruit over the last period of time . that be a four - year - old announcement dress up as something new and , give the extensive change in the Sentencing Bill , I be afraid that it will just not cut it . under the Conservatives , our vital probation service have be take to the brink of collapse , and on current performance it simply can not handle the additional pressure that these measure will bring and keep the public safe . so will the Minister commit to ensure that the measure in the Bill will not come into effect until there be not one probation delivery unit still rate as " inadequate " ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . we will keep this under review as the Bill pass through the House , and we will make further announcement on it in due course . Probate Registry what step he be take to improve the effectiveness of the probate registry . the past 12 month have see the large volume of probate application receive by the service since 2006 , and that follow two year of above - average receipt . in response , we have increase staffing level by more than 100 people and streamlined process . we have see some improvement , in that the level of grant issue have be run at about 8 , 000 more over the past two month than receipt . the average mean length of time for a grant of probate follow receipt of all the document require be now 12 week . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . back in November 2020 , I lead a Westminster Hall debate highlight the failing of the probate service . the service be once excellent , but that be no long the case — I could give many example demonstrate its continue failure . I appreciate the Minister ' s effort to improve the service , but enough be enough . if the service have not materially improve in the next three month , will the Minister take the appropriate action and remove those who be clearly underperform , so that the service can return to the level it once be at ? my hon . friend and I have have some interesting discussion on this topic over the past few month . follow a recovery plan to address the concern that he and other have raise , I can reassure he that a new management team be in place and we be now see a distinct improvement in recruitment , competency , productivity and call handling , and for the past few month disposal have outstrip receipt . I appreciate that the service be not yet where we would want it to be , but I can reassure he that we be start to see some impact as a result of the measure we have introduce . I be more than happy to have conversation with he so that we can work together to improve the service far . Crown Court Case Backlog what step he be take to reduce the backlog of case in the Crown court . what step he be take to reduce the backlog of case in the Crown court . we remain committed to reduce the outstanding caseload in the Crown court and have introduce a range of measure to achieve that aim . we fund over 100 , 000 sitting day in the last financial year and plan to deliver the same this year . thank to our investment in judicial recruitment , we expect to recruit more than 1 , 000 judge across all jurisdiction . we be invest over £ 220 million over the next two year , not just to improve maintenance but to ensure that the number of court take out of action for unplanned maintenance be reduce . I be reassure by that answer , but can I press the Minister on other delay in the justice system ? I have speak to police officer who be incredibly frustrate by the delay in prosecute those who they have arrest for multiple offence of shoplifting . what reassurance can the Minister offer to police officer in those circumstance ? it be a concern to hear that police officer remain concerned . some of the late performance statistic suggest that the gap between charge and first list be fall — the late datum show it be down two day , to 31 day . I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss any local issue he may have identify that be cause delay . magistrate , who tend to deal with shoplifting case , be among the most efficient part of our justice system and list clear case incredibly rapidly , but I be more than happy to discuss this far . in the light of the Post Office scandal , do my hon . friend agree that it be imperative that we not only clear the backlog as quickly as possible , because there have be death involve , but enable the Justice Secretary to strip the Post Office of its power to independently prosecute ? my hon . friend raise a good point . it be vital that the delivery of justice be swift . we appreciate that the wait for trial can be extremely difficult for victim , so we be do all we can to ensure that case be hear more swiftly . we be urgently work on the detail of how to clear the name of the postmaster as quickly as possible , and further detail will be announce in due course . there should be no disparity between the standard of justice in private and public prosecution , and we will carefully consider the finding of Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry . I call the shadow Minister . the late criminal court statistic show a Crown court backlog of 66 , 547 case , once again break record . the next quarter have just end , so do the Minister expect the figure to break record again ? in addition to the measure that we have already take — unlimited sitting day , recruitment of judge , investment in court to ensure they be resilient , and extend Nightingale court — I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be build 58 new court room to ensure we have capacity . I have not see the figure on the backlog , but the late figure for the number of disposal — [ interruption . ] our court and our judge be work flat out , as be all member of the criminal justice system . I reassure he that the level of disposal be undertake by our judiciary be up and the work of our judiciary be exemplary . reoffende what step he be take to reduce reoffende . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . between 2010 - 11 and 2020 - 21 , the overall proven reoffende rate decrease from 31 . 6 % to 24 . 4 % . the Government continue to take action to drive down the reoffende rate even far by invest in initiative to get more offender into work , stable accommodation and substance misuse treatment on their release . my right hon . friend be absolutely right ; the key to rehabilitation and end reoffende be employment and stable accommodation . he have speak already about purposeful activity today , but may I ask he to look at make the subsistence payment available to all prisoner on release , because that would ensure access to the sort of settle accommodation that be require ? my hon . friend make an interesting suggestion . I be happy to meet he , if that would be helpful , to discuss far his idea . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which concern my involvement with organisation relate to addiction and recovery . I acknowledge the positive of roll out incentivise substance - free living wing , but they do not offer recovery as part of the process . recovery wing offer a far great chance of rehabilitation as they get people into recovery while they be in prison and before they be release . currently , there be only seven plan across the prison estate , and I think that it will take Ministers to challenge civil servant and NHS fundholder to see those roll out . will the Minister examine the benefit of expand recovery wing across the whole of the prison estate ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for both his question and the tone in which he ask it . he be absolutely right to highlight the importance of this scheme . as he will be aware , those seven wing be a relatively new step forward . we be see how they operate . I think , if I recall , they be initiate by the former Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Dominic Raab ) , when he be in post in the Ministry of Justice . I continue to look at this very carefully , but I be watch to see how those wing operate first , but I do so with an open mind . release of Violent Offenders : Victim Safety what step his Department be take to help ensure the safety of victim after violent offender be release . protect the public be our top priority . offender be subject to strict licence condition on release , which can include tag and exclusion zone , and they can of course be return to prison if they breach those condition . victim of violent and sexual offender serve prison sentence of 12 month or more be legally entitle to request protect licence condition on release , include exclusion zone . the probation service work with partner include the police under the multi - agency public protection arrangement , to closely manage the risk present by the most serious offender . Rhianon Bragg ' s attacker be convict of stalk , possess a firearm and make threat to kill . only two month ago , the Parole Board decide that his probation release plan could not ensure public protection , yet he will be automatically release next month . I have send numerous letter to Ministers on this matter but have receive not a single reply . give that the victim live in a remote area , which make conventional surveillance method virtually impossible , will the Secretary of State finally provide a credible response to the urgent safety risk face by victim such as Rhianon ? first , I thank the right hon . Lady for raise this case . I do know about the case of Rhianon Bragg — in the interest of complete transparency , I should say that I be at school with she . the Government introduce extended determinate sentence in order to well protect the public from dangerous offender by make their early release dependent on the Parole Board . offender on extended determinate sentence must be release . as the right hon . Lady know , there be no legal power to hold they for long at the end of that custodial term . however , they face year of strict supervision by the probation service with strict licence condition , such as exclusion zone and curfew , and they will be return to prison if they breach they . I be aware of the letter that be send on the 14th to my right hon . friend the Minister of State . he will of course be happy to meet the right hon . Lady to discuss those point . Probation Officer Case Load what assessment he have make of the sustainability of probation officer case load . we have increase funding for the probation service by £ 155 million a year to recruit more staff , bring down caseload and deliver well supervision of offender in the community . we have also accelerate recruitment of trainee probation officer , particularly in area with the most significant staffing challenge . as a result , more than 4 , 000 trainee start on training course between April 2020 and March of last year . probation workload be too high , which be have a terrible impact on both staff morale and retention as well as public safety . what consideration have the Minister give to the very reasonable proposal agree between his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service and the probation union to free up staff time by abolish the post - sentence supervision , which be bring in under privatisation and be see as simply a waste of time by those probation officer and their employer ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . although , on partial datum for this year , caseload be go down , she be right to highlight that they be still high . she make a good point about the post - sentence supervision requirement , which I be happy to reflect on carefully . I understand that the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice , the right hon . and learn Member for Cheltenham ( Alex Chalk ) have meet representative to hear their view on the matter . safeguard of Prisoners : Mental Health whether he be take step to help improve the safeguarding of prisoner with mental health need . we be committed to improve mental health outcome for prisoner , include recruit additional staff , because have adequate staffing in prison be important ; invest £ 625 , 000 of funding in the Samaritans each year until March 2025 , which include the delivery of the Listener scheme ; and work alongside NHS England , which be responsible for deliver mental health support service in the custodial estate to ensure that they be join up and effective . I have be work with a constituent whose son sadly take his own life in Pentonville last year . although it be well establish that there be a high rate of mental health problem among prisoner , the provision of support be insufficient and even reliable datum on the scale of the issue be lack . will the Government commit to a full review of the support and safeguarding for prisoner with mental health problem ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady , and I hope that through she I can pass on my sympathy and condolence to her constituent . I be not aware of the detail of that case , but if she want to write to I , I would be happy to look at that specific case . sadly , there be too many death in custody and every one be a tragedy , so I be always happy to look at way in which we can well improve the support available to those with mental health condition or other health condition that might make they more vulnerable within a custodial environment . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . I thank the many his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service and his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service staff who continue to work hard over the Christmas period to deliver justice and keep we safe . since the last Justice question , the Victims and Prisoners Bill have pass its Third reading in this House . it will enshrine the overarch principle of the victim code in law . it will establish a permanent independent public advocate for victim of major incident , and it will enable a second check on Parole Board decision in the interest of public safety . the Sentencing Bill , which be crack down on the bad offender by extend whole - life order for any murder involve sexual or sadistic conduct , also pass its Second reading , as do the Criminal Justice Bill , which will ensure , among other thing , that criminal face up to the consequence of their appalling action by require they to attend their sentencing hearing . finally , in December , I take part in a park run at HMP Onley alongside prison staff and serve prisoner . congratulation to all who take part , except perhaps my private secretary , who have the audacity to beat I . the Minister mention sexual offence , but it frustrate I beyond belief that my constituent have to wait on average 839 day for their case to be hear . be the distress cause take into account , or be the system too break ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise the issue of victim of serious sexual offence . we take that incredibly seriously , and that be why we have introduce measure such as section 28 , which enable evidence to be take and record in advance . we have increase the fee for barrister to make that more straightforward . we have also increase the number of independent sexual violence adviser , who accompany , as it be , those victim on that journey . that be very important to prevent dropout rate . this be an important point : the sentencing level be much high — up by 30 % compare with 2010 . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in that my wife be an education lawyer . parent appeal decision in relation to education , health and care plan and health need be force to wait between nine month and 13 month from appeal registration to hearing . that be far too long in term of a child ' s development . do my hon . friend agree with that ? do he also share my concern that some school be delay provide education , health and care plan in the knowledge that it will take a year or more to have an appeal ? my right hon . friend be right . despite special educational need and disability appeal and disposal be up by 24 % and 29 % respectively , I do share his concern , and systematic reform be require . that be why through the SEND and alternative provision improvement plan , the Department for Education and ourselves will be work hard to ensure that it be improve . I be more than happy to meet my right hon . friend to go through the detail . I call the shadow Minister . the Children ' s Commissioner ' s report on family contact in the youth estate state that at the weekend , in two young offender institutes , boy spend only up to one hour outside their cell each day . we can clearly see why that have lead to an increase in violence . what be the Minister go to do about it ? it be important to note that , since 2010 when we come into power , the number of under - 18 in custody have drop dramatically . the cohort now in young offender institutes be , to put it politely , highly complex . we take that extremely seriously and want to ensure there be sufficient staff . we do not give up on people , but it be important to recognise that that cohort will have be convict of extremely serious offence , and we want to ensure there be sufficient resource to try to get the good out of they . I recently meet the senior coroner for my area about concern over health service in north Wales and to discuss preventable death . as part of that work , he point I towards the Preventable Deaths Tracker , set up by Dr Georgia Richards in Oxford . will the Secretary of State commit to meet Dr Richards and I to discuss the potential benefit of the tracker ? my hon . friend make a great point . my official have already meet Dr Richards to discuss her work on the tracker and , together with the Chief Coroner ' s office , we be explore with her team how good to share the tracker on the various website . however , I be more than happy to meet with my hon . Friend and Dr Richards to discuss how we can work together . numerous study have find that the number of minoritised and migrant woman be hold on remand be disproportionately high . for example , 10 % of female black and asian defendant be remand in custody by magistrate court , compare with 7 % of white woman . what step be the Government take to address those clear inequality in the use of remand ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady ; she will be aware of the work be do across the criminal justice system through both the race disparity review and the Lammy review in that context . decision on remand be take by the judiciary , so it would be wrong for I to comment on judicial decision , but I be happy to meet she to discuss this far if that would be helpful , and so be the Minister for disparity in the justice system , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) . can the Secretary of State confirm that the Director of Public Prosecutions could take over a private prosecution and discontinue it ? the Crown Prosecution Service can take over any criminal prosecution . it may then carry out the prosecution or it may end or discontinue the prosecution if it do not believe it should have be bring in the first place . I be pleased to say that the late scottish crime and justice survey have show that the volume of crime in Scotland , include incident not report to the police , have fall by 53 % . in addition , we have one of the low level of record crime in Scotland since 1974 — 50 year . I add my thank to all those who work in Police Scotland Tayside for their duty and service on behalf of my constituent in Dundee . will the Justice Secretary join I in congratulate Police Scotland and all the community safety partner who have contribute to that success ? we of course welcome any reduction in crime , and I be happy to congratulate Police Scotland on its work . it be encourage that across the United Kingdom , and certainly across England and Wales , crime and reoffending be down . however , I urge the hon . gentleman to ensure that Scotland do not anything that would be regrettable , such as roll back on jury trial , which be a critical part of maintain public confidence in the criminal justice system . have work in A & E at Christmas over the year , I have see the outcome of alcohol - relate violence and the injury it cause . I know the Department have be look at fitting alcohol monitor tag for offender during the festive season ; what assessment have the Government make of their effectiveness in reduce alcohol - fuel crime ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that point . alcohol tag be hugely valuable and be be use increasingly to tackle alcohol - relate offending , include violent crime , successfully . around 2 , 800 individual be wear an alcohol tag at the end of November 2023 , 900 more than in the same period the year before , and alcohol ban impose in community sentence be comply with for 97 . 3 % of the day monitor since their introduction in October 2020 . they be a vital crime - fight tool . in May 2022 , my constituent Tallulah Cox be diagnose with brain stem cancer . she be leave catatonic from the radiation treatment , a side effect that her parent , Zoe and Richard , be never inform about . they then have to fight constantly for the support and care that she need from her local council and NHS . that support never come . little Tallulah pass away on 2 November last year — order . this be topical question . I have to get everybody else in . if the hon . Lady be go to ask a topical question , it must be short and quick to allow other to ask theirs . have the Minister be brief on what be be ask ? no . okay . very quickly , then — please just ask the question . little Tallulah pass away aged two on 2 November last year after those service fail she . how can her parent get some justice ? this sound like an absolutely appalling case and my heart go out to Tallulah and her family . I be unaware of the detail of the case , but if the hon . Lady write to I , she will get a response . dozen of business have sign up to Torbay Council ' s safety of woman at night charter , which be be champion by Councillor Hayley Tranter . what step be the Government take to ensure that those who pose a threat to woman , for example by spike drink , get the type of deterrent sentence that such disgraceful behaviour deserve ? I congratulate Torbay Council and Councillor Tranter on their excellent work to keep woman safe in Torbay . spike be a disgusting crime that carry a maximum sentence of 10 year in prison depend on the harm that result . we be change the offence against the Person Act 1861 to define the offence of spike specifically and comprehensively in law , with a view to encourage more people to come forward . however , the big barrier to conviction remain the fact that toxicology test be often conduct after the substance have leave a woman ' s body . that be why we be invest in research for rapid drink testing kit so that spiking will be easy to prove and we get more of the offender behind bar . my constituent be the victim of a violent attack , but because the perpetrator get a sentence of less than 12 month , she be not tell when he be release from prison . the police say that it be impossible for they to go through the record of everybody who be release in order to advise she , so there be a gap in victim support . will the Secretary of State commit to resolve that ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . I take that extremely seriously . certainly , under the victim code , the right of victim to be keep inform be far tight than ever they use to be . if we need to go far , that seem to be a sensible conversation and I would be happy to have it . for too many year , this House have be witness to wrongful conviction in the Post Office - Fujitsu scandal . there remain 800 Post office conviction base on bad datum . until those conviction be overturn , the victim can not claim compensation . we could do something good together if the Justice Secretary bring a simple Bill to quash all 800 conviction immediately . I be grateful to my right hon . friend , who , with his customary precision , put his finger on that appalling injustice . the suggestion that he make be receive active consideration . I expect to be able to make further announcement shortly . I add my support to the comment make by the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Julie Marson ) . Cuckooing be a terrible activity , and make it a specific crime not only make sense but would , I suspect , lead to the prosecution of other crime such as drug dealing . as I indicate , I will have a conversation with my hon . friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Julie Marson ) about that . there be very likely to be a substantive underlying offence , be it handle steal good , possession with intent to supply or firearm matter . this have be consider by way of discussion with criminal justice partner , but if there be further matter to consider with my hon . friend , and indeed with the hon . Gentleman , I would be happy to have those conversation . January be often consider family breakdown month . anybody take the terrifically difficult decision to separate this year will face not only a divorce cost over £ 14 , 000 on average , but month , or potentially more than a year , of resolve child and financial dispute . we need reform of focus in a range of area . will the Lord Chancellor kindly agree to meet I and the formidable Baroness Deech and Baroness Shackleton to look at our campaign ? my hon . friend raise an important point . I know that she campaign tirelessly on this issue . I be more than happy to arrange a meeting with my noble Friend Lord Bellamy , who lead on this issue , to update she and the noble Baroness Deech — Order . I call Richard Burgon . to reduce reoffende we need a strong , locally focused and stand - alone probation service — similar to how thing be before privatisation — so why be the Government move in the opposite direction with their one hmpps programme , which have trigger a formal dispute with the probation union because it subsume probation still far into prison ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question ; it be nice to answer question from he again , as I do when he be shadow Secretary of State . the one hmpps programme be about different part of the system work well together to create a system that deliver the outcome that society want to see . I take the opportunity , prompt by the hon . Gentleman , to pay tribute to all the staff in the probation service . I have the pleasure of visit some of they in Southwark recently , and I pay tribute to all the work they be do . in a perfect world , the victim of the Horizon IT scandal would have their case individually assess by the Criminal Cases Review Commission and the Court of Appeal , but we be not in a perfect world . the scale of the miscarriage of justice be enormous , and there be hundred of victim who understandably do not want to come forward because they have lose faith in the process . will my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor now consider the exceptional and unique step of legislate to quash the conviction ? I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend , who speak with such authority . the circumstance be truly exceptional . when I be a Back Bencher , I go on the record as say that Horizon be the most serious miscarriage of justice since the Guildford Four or the Birmingham Six . but the clue be that there be four in the Guildford case and six in the Birmingham case ; we be talk about hundred of people . the situation be truly exceptional and unprecedented , and it will need an appropriate resolution . under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , victim of human trafficking who arrive in the UK via irregular route would not have legal recourse to receive support under modern slavery provision . be Ministers comfortable with that ? they do not look like monster , so I assume not . if they be not , what will they do about it ? I will have to write to the hon . Gentleman and check exactly what the provision be for legal aid under the Illegal Migration Act . I be more than happy to provide he with the detail and meet he if necessary . precisely because legislate to overturn conviction would be so unprecedented , will my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor make sure that before such a step be take , he be satisfied from conversation with the senior judiciary that the mean of triage and consolidate appeal that currently exist may not be capable of deliver justice within an acceptable timeframe ? that be precisely the point , and my hon . friend have put his finger on it . of course , we would not want to stray into the normal lane of the judiciary ; we have huge respect for our independent judiciary , who do an exceptionally good job of ensure that there be fairness on the fact before they . as I have say , the case be wholly unprecedented , and we will want to have exhaust all alternative before take radical action . spend on housing legal aid have fall by more than half in the past decade , from £ 44 million to £ 20 million . be this a proper response to grow insecurity , overcrowding and poor condition in the housing market , or might it be a contribute factor ? I have to say to the hon . Gentleman that just last year we invest an extra £ 10 million in housing legal aid , so I think we be address the issue . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the Financial Times be report that Teesworks Ltd — the so - call public - private partnership to redevelop the former steelwork site on Teesside — have report an exceptional year , triple its profit to £ 54 million . sadly , the public will see very little of that hard cash , as under the Tees Tory Mayor , 90 % of share in the company be hand over to two local businessman . that mean they get £ 48 . 6 million , and the public get just £ 5 . 4 million . personally , I think that be scandalous . when my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) and I raise question about the way that business be do at Teesworks , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities order an inquiry , which be expect to have report by now . will you please advise I , Mr Speaker , on whether you have hear of any plan by the Secretary of State to come to the House to make a statement about why that report have be delay and when we can expect it ? I have have no indication from the Government that the Secretary of State intend to make a statement on this matter , but I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s remark , and I be sure he will pursue it in other way . no doubt , if nothing be forthcoming , it might need an urgent question — that be a possible suggestion . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . for the convenience of the House , it may assist right hon . and hon . member if I give some advance notice of Thursday ' s business statement . the business for the week commence 15 January will include : Monday 15 January — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill . Tuesday 16 January — Committee of the whole House on the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill ( day 1 ) . Wednesday 17 January — Committee of the whole House on the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill ( day 2 ) . I will announce the business statement on Thursday in the usual way . while that be not a point of order for the Chair , I be sure the House will have hear the announcement by the Leader of the House with great interest . I call the shadow Leader of the House . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . be this not just another example of this Government make it up as they go along , with no real plan , scrabble around and try to make something of this fail , unworkable plan ? we have have at least three business statement or question since the Bill first begin to be timetable . would you not expect , Mr Speaker , such an announcement to be make in a business statement in the usual way ? far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . it may be helpful if I explain to the House that if I have wait to announce this for the first time on Thursday , there would have be very limited time for people to table amendment ahead of the normal tabling deadline . we be make this announcement to facilitate right hon . and hon . member in table amendment , if they wish to do so . we do not wish to bring forward legislation that will not be successful . this be a matter of great importance to the general public , and we wish it to be successful . I hope the House will understand why we have give it a head - up of the business for next week . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . normally business statement allow back Benchers as well as Front Benchers to ask question of the Leader of the House . this be a difficult precedent because it do not give the Back Benchers a voice . say that it be just a matter of convenience for amendment be not good enough when the Government be in charge of the business and could have do this in a more organised way to give everybody a say . I think this be a deplorable development . in general , I would expect the House business to be announce via a statement or in response to the business question . it would of course be in order to ask question about the timetabling of this business during Thursday ' s business statement , but you have make the point and at least you have get it on the record . let we move on . school ( Mental Health Professionals ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision to require every school to have access to a qualified mental health professional ; and for connected purpose . Mr Speaker , " he use to be such a lovely happy little boy and now he ' s so sad . I ' m terrify for his future . all I ' ve ever want be to help my son and I ' ve fail and fall at every hurdle . " those be the anguished word of a constituent of mine who be mother to a nine - year - old . week in and week out , I speak to parent whose child be struggle with their mental health and struggle to access appropriate support . when I speak to headteacher , they tell I that some of the most pressing challenge face our education system come from outside the classroom , and mental health be among the big . teacher often feel as though they be the fourth emergency service , fill the gap leave by under - resource service across the country . let we be clear : mental health service for young people before the pandemic be inadequate . since the pandemic , despite the good effort of everyone work in the sector , service be on their knee . the current generation of child have have to contend not only with rise pressure and judgment bring by social medium , but with the huge consequence of a global pandemic . it be unsurprise that such challenge have take their toll on child ' s and young people ' s mental health . it be estimate that one in five child between the age of seven and 16 have a probable mental health disorder . if six child in every classroom be diagnose with a physical condition such as diabete , there would rightly be a public outcry , and there would be no discussion about urgently put both proper treatment and preventive measure in place . we would just do it . mental health be no different and should not be treat any differently . we must do everything in our power to ensure that every child arrive at school happy , healthy and ready to learn and thrive . my Bill provide one of the tool to help to achieve that . it would place a dedicated qualified mental health practitioner in every school — primary and secondary — give every child in school access to care and support from the moment they start to need it . early intervention be crucial . research tell we that half of all lifetime mental health disorder start before the age of 14 . step in as soon as warning sign start to show can often help to prevent condition from become more severe . when Nicole , now aged 19 , be struggle with her mental health , she have to wait a very long time before she could access any support . describe that time , she say : " wait for suitable mental health support mean that my whole life feel like it be pause and erase … I be leave without suitable support and my mental health leave to deteriorate . " this story be not unique , nor be it unusual . I know that colleague across the Chamber be aware of many similar story in their own constituency . the state of our child and young people ' s mental health be a significant and urgent challenge face our country and , frankly , this Government be not take it seriously enough . in December 2021 , the Health and Social Care Committee warn that the combination of unmet need before the pandemic and additional need create by the pandemic be significant . it say that the Government ' s plan " be simply not sufficient for the task at hand . " in the two year since , there be no indication that their approach have improve . last month , when I ask the mental health Minister , the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , in a write question what proportion of mental health funding have be allocate to child and young people , I receive an answer that such fund be not " separately identifiable . " how can a Government begin to take a problem seriously when they do not even know how much money they be spend on it ? sadly , in the eye of the Treasury child and young people be too often see as a financial burden and a drain on Government resource , and that be just wrong . spend on education and service to support our child be an investment in their future and our country ' s future , and it be time that the Government recognise that . the introduction of mental health support team have be an encouraging step forward , but they be under - resource and overstretch . last year , I visit Carshalton Boys Sports College . I meet mhst staff as well as some of the pupil they be support . the boy talk about how the team have help they to learn cope technique for anxiety and how to identify the technique that work for they . the staff mention how important it be that they could intervene early before thing escalate and child need other service , such as child and adolescent mental health service , but what strike I be that the team be stretch thinly across many local primary and secondary school , which mean that their valuable skill and service be available only for half a day to one day per week in each school . furthermore , research by the Liberal Democrats reveal that by the end of this year half of secondary school and three quarter of all primary school in England will still have no access at all to mental health support team . instead , the role of support child ' s mental ill health fall on teacher , who be already manage a heavy workload at the same time as contend with extremely overstretch budget . with many school struggle to afford the basic , sadly some of those that have find their own money for mental health support be be force to cut back , which be why school must not have to fund the provision themselves . my Bill make it clear that funding need to be make available for the propose statutory duty for all state school . use the " polluter pay " principle , Liberal Democrats have propose fund mental health practitioner through triple the digital service tax on our big social medium company , give the harm that they have contribute to our child ' s mental health . a big challenge currently face school be persistent absence , with the most recent Government datum reveal that a fifth of child miss on average a day of school every fortnight last term . one of the most significant causal factor of absence be mental ill health . accord to new datum from YoungMinds , more than one in five child wait for mental health support have miss more than six month of school . absence have a huge impact on a child ' s education and ultimately their prospect . three quarter of these child say that they have stop exercise , do hobby and even see friend . these child should be carefree , enjoy themselves and spend time with love one ; instead , their life be be put on hold and their life chance be diminish because they can not access the support they have so bravely ask for . just last week I hear of a pupil at a school in my constituency who be stick in exactly that limbo . despite desperately need mental health support , they be stick on a long CAMHS waiting list . in the meantime , not only have the child stop attend school , but their mother say that they have not leave the house in more than four month . a teacher at the school tell I that they strongly believe that have there be the possibility of see a mental health professional at school on a regular basis , that pupil would still be attend school . instead , their mental health be rapidly deteriorate , leave those around they worry sick . sadly , this be not uncommon — alarmingly , the headteacher of this pupil tell I that it be just one example of many . there be a tidal wave of mental ill health among our child and young people , which be jeopardise their wellbeing , education , prospect , and long - term health . a report commission by the Local Government Association , and undertake by the Children and Young People ' s Mental Health Coalition , assert that there be " a miss opportunity to significantly ease pressure on the system by increase the availability of preventative and early intervention support . " that be exactly what put a mental health practitioner in every school would do . it would make mental health support accessible to every pupil , regardless of their age , where they live or their background . it would save our NHS money in the long term by tackle issue before they become more severe , and it would ensure that child ' s mental health be support early on , give they the tool they need to be resilient and thrive into adulthood . the Bill be an investment in our future and one that we must make , not just because it be sensible but because we owe it to this generation of child and young people — a generation that so often feel let down and neglect . I would like to end by thank the young people , parent and teacher who have share their story with I , as well as the organisation that have support I with the Bill , include YoungMinds , the Centre for Mental Health , Barnardo ' s , Place2Be , the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy and the Sutton Trust . they be all dedicate to ensure that every child have the right support in their time of need . the Bill would be a significant step towards achieve that . question put and agree to . order , that Munira Wilson , Ed Davey , Daisy Cooper , Helen Morgan , Layla Moran , Sarah Dyke , Richard Foord , Sarah Green , Sarah Olney , Tim Farron and Wera Hobhouse present the Bill . Munira Wilson accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 75 ) . opposition Day - 2nd Allotted DayOpposition Day NHS Dentistry I inform the House that I have select the amendment in the name of the Prime Minister . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I beg to move , that this House recognise that NHS dentistry be in crisis , with eight in 10 dentist in England not take on new NHS patient and vast part of the country consider so - call dental desert , where no dentist be available ; regret that this have lead to people resort to DIY dentistry or attend a & E to access urgent care ; be concerned that tooth decay be the most common reason child age six to 10 be admit to hospital ; and therefore call on the Government to provide an extra 700 , 000 urgent appointment a year , introduce an incentive scheme to recruit new dentist to the area most in need and a target supervised toothbrushing scheme for three to five year - old to promote good oral health and reform the dental contract to rebuild the service in the long - run . happy new year , Mr Speaker . after 14 year of conservative neglect and mismanagement , " nhs dentistry in England be at its most perilous point in its 75 - year history . " that be the conclusion of the Nuffield Trust think - thank , and who can blame it ? eight in 10 NHS dentist no long take new patient . accord to the NHS , no dentist be take on new adult patient in entire constituency such as Broxtowe , Bolsover , Stoke - on - Trent South and Stroud . five million patient try but fail to get an appointment in the past two year . million more need dental care but do not bother try to book an appointment because they know it would be impossible . Tooth decay be now the no . 1 reason why child age six to 10 end up in hospital . we face the moral outrage of one in 10 brit say that they have be force to attempt dentistry themselves because the NHS be not there for they when they need it . this be dickensian — DIY dentistry in 21st - century Britain . be there any great example of the decline that this country have be subject to under the Conservatives ? may I add Rotherham to the list that my hon . friend be quote ? to give an example , one of my constituent have be try for more than a year to register with an NHS dentist . he have now have to go private for the consultation , which say : " your tooth be in a very poor condition with most of your remain tooth decay and unsaveable . all your tooth except 2 … need extract . " he have be live for more than a year on painkiller and soup . I have raise this with the Minister and get no satisfaction . this be what Tory Britain be do to dentistry . I totally agree with my hon . friend . we have hear so many heartbreaking story like the one she mention from her constituency . a service that once be there for all of we when we need it be almost go for good . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will , so that the hon . Gentleman can explain why that be the case . be there any great landmine of a Labour legacy than the 2006 contract that it design , which be pull we down ? Labour member need look no far than their own design on the NHS . we be sort out their mess . the sound you can hear , Mr Speaker , be the scraping of the barrel . how have the hon . Gentleman get the brass neck to stand up , after 14 year of his party in government , and say that a contract agree in 2006 be the problem ? if only the Conservatives have be in government for 14 year to sort it out . here be the other rub : we do not pretend that everything be perfect under the last Labour Government . in fact , reform of the NHS dentistry contract be in Labour ' s 2010 manifesto , because we recognise that it need to change . have we be elect in 2010 , we would have deliver . it be also in the Conservatives ' 2010 manifesto and 2015 manifesto . it be probably in the 2017 and 2019 manifesto , too , and they have not deliver . we have 14 year of conservative failure . how dare the hon . Gentleman have the brass neck to stand up and blame someone else . it be of great interest , be it not , that there be not one member from the govern party in Scotland present for this debate ? I can tell the House that dental service in my constituency in remote Scotland have go backwards in a big way , and I be shocked that none of they be here to hear this . it be deeply disappointing . let I assure the hon . gentleman that as with the last Labour Government — 13 year that create a rise tide that lift all ship across the country , when we have an NHS with the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history — the next Labour Government will deliver a rise tide to benefit people across the country . the British Dental Association highlight that : " hormonal change during pregnancy can make gum more vulnerable to plaque " , and : " change to dietary habit , and morning sickness " can also impact on oral health . after be tell of the importance of see a dentist after suffer multiple miscarriage , a constituent tell I that she have be struggle for three year to see a dentist within a 50 - mile radius of her home . dentist say that they be go private and be help only with emergency . surely that be evidence of a colossal failure of Tory Government dental policy , and even the most vulnerable be suffer . I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . in fact , he have the ability , as the Labour MP for Stockton North , to speak for his resident . if only other people across the country have mp stand up for they . Chris Webb , Labour ' s candidate in Blackpool South , report to I that pregnant mother have be tell he they can not get an nhs dentist , despite be entitle to free NHS check - up and treatment . Alice Macdonald , Labour ' s candidate in Norwich North , report similar conversation to I . expectant mother have tell she that they have be travel hundred of mile to see a dentist when we know that pregnant woman probably need that support more than many other . what an indictment of 14 year of Conservative Government . do my hon . friend see the report in today ' s Times that show that nhs dentist be perform only 75 % of the procedure they be contract to do ? in Devon and Somerset , where the situation be the bad in the country , it be only 26 . 5 % and 30 % . not only have this Government deliver an NHS desert in Devon and Somerset , but they be waste masse of public money . what be my hon . friend go to do about it when he be Health Secretary ? I strongly agree with my right hon . friend . thing be so desperate . he mention the south - west in particular , and Devon and Cornwall have be particularly poorly serve . Jayne Kirkham , Labour ' s candidate in Truro and Falmouth for this year ' s general election , report to I that a local dentist hand their contract back before Christmas , mean that 3 , 000 people lose their NHS dentist overnight . there be currently no dentist in Truro and Falmouth take on adult NHS patient . contract reform be urgent , so where be it ? they have have 14 year , so where be the recovery plan that the Health Secretary mention in her amendment ? rise — I must make some progress . turn to other part of the country , Keir Cozens , Labour ' s candidate in Great Yarmouth , have be run a campaign on the state of dentistry in Great Yarmouth . he have hear heartbreaking story of broken tooth leave for month with people in pain , of child unable to be see , of at least one person a day go to accident and emergency with dental issue , and of people perform DIY dentistry at home after buy kit from Amazon . no one should be do that , but people be desperate . DIY dentistry do not work , and before you know it , people be back in A & E wait for expensive emergency dental treatment . I have hear similar story from Kevin Bonavia , Labour ' s candidate in Stevenage . he tell I that people turn to DIY be shockingly common . no one vote for this . none of the five conservative Prime Ministers , the seven Conservative Chancellors or the eight Conservative Health Secretaries tell the public that this be what the future hold , but this be what they have do to dentistry . it be the way all our public service be go , and it be why the conservative party can not be allow five more year to finish the job . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for bring this debate forward . the stat from the British Dental Association can not be ignore . in its survey , 41 % of practice owner and 38 % of associate dentist say that they would like to leave NHS dentistry as soon as possible . this debate will resonate with many people out there . do he agree with the chair of the Northern Ireland Dental Practice Committee that now be the time for the funding allocation to pay for a well contract and for train more dedicated dentist who will commit to the NHS , rather than private practice ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman about the urgency of the situation . there be a different path available to we . we can revive our public service and give our country back what we use to take for grant . labour ' s plan would take immediate step to rescue NHS dentistry , with 700 , 000 more urgent appointment and the recruitment of new dentist in the area most in need . we would also take the necessary step to rebuild NHS dentistry over the long term , include reform the dental contract and introduce supervised toothbrushing for three to five - year - old in primary school , so that poor oral health be prevent and demand on the service reduce . in fact , some of my Labour colleague be not even wait for the general election to start make a difference . labour ' s candidate in Stroud , Simon Opher — himself a gp — have spearhead a campaign work with local dentist and the integrated care board . from opposition , he have more than treble the number of emergency appointment available each day across Gloucestershire , pioneer a new dental stabilisation scheme for people not know to a local practice , open up more than 130 appointment a week , and introduce supervised toothbrushing in 14 local primary school . if that be the difference Simon be make in opposition , imagine what he will be able to do as a Labour MP work with a Labour Government . that government can not come soon enough . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree with I and my constituent in Crouch end who have not have a check - up since 2019 that the link between poor oral health and oral cancer be serious ? that could be contribute to the terrible problem we have with cancer waiting time . I totally agree with my hon . friend . prevention be well than cure . it be a truism , and it be also the foundation pillar of what would be labour ' s 10 - year plan for reform and modernisation of our national health service . a part of that plan be before the House today , and Government Members will have to explain to their constituent , only month , if not week away from a general election , why they be refuse to support it . the Government ' s amendment to the motion promise that the dental recovery plan be come soon , but it be due last summer ; now , they can not put a date on when the plan will arrive , when it will be implement or even say what it be . conservative Ministers have take a look at the state of NHS dentistry , at the million of people across the country who can not get an appointment to see a dentist and at child in their own constituency whose tooth be rot , and their conclusion be : what be the rush ? let I tell they why they should get their skate on . a 17 - year - old boy in Plymouth have to undergo emergency surgery on an abscess in his mouth last year . he spend two month try to book an NHS dentist — he say that he be on hold for about three hour per day . accord to figure on the NHS website , no dentist be take on new NHS patient in the Plymouth , Moor View constituency . it be leave too late , and when he finally get the healthcare he need , he require emergency surgery , which have leave he scarred for life . in worthe West , Labour ' s candidate Dr Beccy Cooper tell I of an 82 - year - old great - grandfather on pension credit who tell she that he will not be go back to an NHS dentist before he die . he try to get an NHS dentist in Worthing , but no one will take he on the NHS to receive low - cost treatment . Dr Beccy Cooper also tell I that resident who can not get a dentist be be tell to look for one in Hampshire , more than 60 mile away from where they live . on that important point , a couple who move into new housing in my constituency try to get an NHS dentist for over a year without any success whatsoever . they have get two option : they either go private or use their previous dentist , who be 20 mile away . that be wholly unacceptable . will my hon . friend simply explain how Labour ' s plan will eradicate this unacceptable issue ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we will have : 700 , 000 appointment , make a difference straightaway ; supervise toothbrushing for three to five - year - old to reduce future demand on NHS service ; and reform of the NHS dentistry contract so that we can rebuild an NHS dentistry service worthy of the name . that change can not come soon enough . my constituent Amy have be in contact with I about the difficulty that she and her five child have have get NHS dentist appointment . she explain that her husband be in the military and therefore they have to move home frequently , and each time they move they find it hard to get an NHS dentist . do my hon . friend agree that that be a shameful way to treat people who have serve and give so much to our country ? I agree . I be afraid that when it come to serve personnel and veteran , there be a gulf between what the Government say and promise and what they do ; that be not the only example . one thing not in the Government ' s amendment to labour ' s motion be a pledge to protect the NHS dentistry budget . that be odd , because the Prime Minister promise to do exactly that 18 month ago . the truth be that the Prime Minister break that pledge in November when he give the go - ahead for dentistry underspend to be raid , effectively wave the white flag on the future of the service . can you believe it ? despite everything we have hear , there be dentistry underspend , and the Prime Minister think that other thing be great priority than this crisis . the consequence of that decision be now be feel . the budget in some area of the country be run out and dentist be have to stop NHS work for the remainder of the year . it be so deeply frustrating . nhs dentist want to do more nhs work ; it be the Government who be stand in their way . the Nuffield Trust ' s stark report into the crisis suggest that NHS dentistry may have to be scale back and make available only to the least well - off . such an approach would be the end of NHS dentistry as a universal public service , yet that be exactly the approach that the Government be pilot in Cornwall . child , the over - 80 and those with specific health need be give treatment ; everyone else have to go private or go without . they will not admit it , but this be the future under the Tories : far neglect , decline and patient make to go without . worse still , NHS dentistry be the ghost of Christmas yet to come under the Tories . that be not partisan overreaction on our part ; that be accord to the lead author of the Nuffield Trust ' s report . he write : " for the wide health system , the lesson be troubling : without political honesty and a clear strategy , the same long - term slide from aspiration to reality could happen in other area of primary care too . " what have happen to NHS dentistry under the Tories be come to the rest of the nhs if they be give another five year . that be not the continuity that the country be look for — it be look for change with Labour . my Bath constituency be also describe as an NHS dental desert . the only option for people be to go private . the hon . Member have already say that it be dickensian . do he agree that it be not just a health problem but an equality issue that the Government fail to recognise ? I totally agree . in fact , Claire Hazelgrove , Labour ' s candidate in Filton and Bradley Stoke — next - door to the forthcoming by - election — be tell I about problem in her constituency and that exact challenge of people be leave without or have to go private . one patient tell she that her dental practice be now only see private patient . that same patient care for her 84 - year - old dad with dementia , who need a tooth removal to allow he to eat . his appointment be also cancel . that be what be happen before our eye . what of those who can not afford it ? Anna Dixon , Labour ' s candidate in Shipley , tell I of a woman in her town who have be turn away as an NHS patient and could not afford to go private . she be struggle with pain , it be affect she eating , and she be at her wit ' end . with the Tories , if you have not get the money , you have not get the care . as a neighbouring mp , I thank my hon . friend for mention Claire Hazelgrove , our candidate in Filton and Bradley Stoke , who be do tremendous work on this . I have do a survey of my constituency and have find that about 98 % of Bristol NHS practice be not take on new patient . one issue I have also come across be that , even when people do have access to an NHS dentist , they can not afford even those low fee , and as a result they be be remove from the active patient list and lose access to that . we can understand how , during the cost of living crisis , people might delay a check - up for a few month because there be so many other press demand on their budget . I totally agree , and I do not think we should be complacent about this as a country . the NHS be already become a two - tier healthcare system , where those who can afford to go private be pay and the rest be leave with an increasingly poor service for poor people . government Members protest now , but they admit their goal once they leave the Department for Health and Social Care . the Health Secretary ' s predecessor may not have say it when they be in her place at the Dispatch Box , but , as soon as they be out the door of the Department , the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) and for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) say what they really believe : patient should be charge for GP appointment . well , why stop there with this conservative philosophy ? why not go far ? that be the future for the health service if the conservative party be give another five year . that be the risk face patient across the country , and that be the choice face voter at the next general election : far neglect , mismanagement and decline under the conservative or change with Labour and a decade of national renewal . on NHS dentistry , the need for change could not be clear . by the conservative party ' s own admission , it do not have a plan — just the vague promise of one come in the future . all it do have be a record of 14 year of failure . if we stick to the current path , full universal access to NHS dentistry may be go for good . the Conservatives may be happy to wave goodbye to this vital public service , but that be not the labour way . with Labour , there be a clear plan , with immediate step to tackle the crisis and long - term reform to rebuild dentistry . there will be more appointment , more dentist , more support for child and long - term reform to put the service on a sustainable footing , pay for by abolish the non - dom tax status . that be because Labour believe that people who live and work in Britain should pay their taxis here , too . it do not matter whether they live on Downing Street or any other street : if they make their money here in Britain , they should pay their taxis here , too . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . Abby Lane , in my constituency , have contact over 30 dental practice . not one be accept she and her one - year - old child , who desperately need dental treatment . be it not the case that we now need to reform the system so that local commissioner can ensure that dental commissioning be happen in local area where there be need , and not just have this patchwork system where dentist be flee because it be not pay well enough ? I totally agree . the tragedy be that if we look at the system as a whole and think about the pressure the whole system be under , and if we get NHS dentistry right , we would not only be save patient untold pain , but save the NHS money . as Lucy Rigby , Labour ' s candidate in Northampton North , report to I , in 2022 tooth decay force 625 of her local patient to a & E — bad for they and more expensive for the taxpayer . if Tory member disagree with charge non - dom their fair share , maybe they could explain in their own contribution why they disagree . I be sure that their constituent would love to hear their defence of the non - dom , and we would be happy to give they space on Labour leaflet to quote their argument back at they and let the public decide . I would particularly like to know why the Prime Minister be so wed to this tax break for the wealthy . while Tory Members be set to oppose labour ' s rescue motion today , I understand that our plan on supervised toothbrushing for three to five - year - old have receive an endorsement from an unlikely source . on his podcast , former Conservative Chancellor George Osborne say : " that really be the nanny - state in action . " come from the Chancellor who introduce a sugar tax , I be sure George mean that as a compliment . of course , Conservative Members may not see it the same way , just as they do not agree with Labour ' s proposal to phase out smoking for child . Don ' t worry , we have the Prime Minister ' s back on that one ; it be , after all , our proposal . but I ask those who attack our plan as nanny - state , what be the alternative ? if a child can not see a dentist and their parent will not do the responsible thing and make sure they clean their tooth , then should we just shrug our shoulder and do nothing while child ' s tooth rot ? the problem for the small - statist on the Conservative Benches be this . too many child today be not clean their tooth . their tooth be rot and they end up have they pull out in hospital , which be bad for they and more expensive for the taxpayer . last year , the NHS spend £ 80 million on tooth extraction . toothbrushing in school would cost a fraction of that , yet the Conservatives choose to waste taxpayer ' money , burn through taxpayer ' cash on the altar of ideological dogma and put child through unnecessary misery , because it fit their confused ideology . that be the irony of the conservative party . tory say that they believe in a small state and low taxis , yet they have leave our country with the high tax burden since the 1950 . the NHS receive £ 169 billion a year , yet it be go through the big crisis in its history . because they do not understand that prevention be well than cure . because they have refuse to undertake meaningful reform . because they treat taxpayer ' money with utter carelessness and contempt . and so they have leave we with an nhs that get to people too late , deliver bad care for patient at great cost to the taxpayer . we be pay more and get less . that be Tory Britain . no wonder Tory candidate be so worried . before this debate , I happen on a letter on Facebook from the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) who be , happily , in his place . first he talk about the state of dentistry in his constituency — we obviously agree with he there — and then he say : " I be shocked to learn at the end of last year that little to no progress have be make by the Health Board in our region who be responsible for commission this service to you . " let we assume it be in anticipation of Labour ' s motion , which he be go to vote against because the Whip have be crack . he go on to say : " I have today write to the Chief Executive follow on from the meeting I have last year , and will be raise this issue in today ' s dentistry debate in the House of Commons . " what that be , and what voter will see it for , be just one of what will no doubt be countless example of Tory mp and Tory Ministers , after 14 year of their failure and mismanagement , point the finger of blame at someone else , hope that voter in Darlington and elsewhere will blame local nhs manager and local NHS commissioner for 14 year of failure . if it be really the case that his integrate care board be to blame for why people in Darlington can not get a dentist , why be people struggle in Newcastle - under - lyme ? why be they struggle in Northampton North ? why be they struggle in Shipley ? why be they struggle in Filton and Bradley Stoke ? why be they struggle in Worthing West , Stroud , Stevenage , Great Yarmouth , Truro and Falmouth , Blackpool South , Stockton South and every other constituency in the country ? stop blame other people for your Government ' s failure . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way and I appreciate that he give I notice that he be go to mention my constituency . what he fail to do in his contribution be read out the letter in full . he have also not anticipate the full content of my speech , which highlight all the work I have be do in my constituency to tackle the failure by the ICB to deliver the miss contract . I could quote the full letter , but it do not help the hon . gentleman . he miss the fundamental point . this be not just a failure in Darlington . this be not just a problem in the north - east of England . it be the south - west of England , it be the south - east of England , it be the west midland , it be the east midland , it be the north - west , it be Cumbria — it be right across the country . in fact , even in London , my city , which have the good NHS dentistry provision in the country — so much for level up — dentistry be still in a poor condition . that be why people in Darlington be look to Labour and , I hope , Lola McEvoy , to take responsibility , show some leadership , back good labour policy and rescue NHS dentistry in Darlington . the general election can not come soon enough . the choice be clear . under the Tories , NHS dentistry be die a slow death . the only chance for survival be change with Labour . labour ' s plan will deliver : 700 , 000 more dental appointment a year for those most in need ; new dentist recruit to dental desert where there be not a single dentist take on new patient ; toothbrushe in primary school for three to five year - old to promote good health and prevent demand on the NHS ; and reform of the dental contract after 14 year of failure , so that once again every patient who need a dentist can get one . politic be about choice . labour choose to rescue NHS dentistry , not give the wealthy a tax break . labour ' s plan be fully cost , fully fund , and will make a real difference to people across the country . the Tories have leave our country toothless . labour will give our country its smile back and give its NHS back , too . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " House " to the end of the question and add : " recognise the impact of a once - in - a - generation pandemic on NHS dental service , with 7 million few patient see in England across 2020 and 2021 ; note these challenge be reflect in both Scotland and Wales ; acknowledge the step already take to recover service in England include the introduction of a minimum rate and increase payment for complex dental activity to well reward dentist for their work ; welcome the publication of the Long Term Workforce Plan which commit to expand dental training place by 40 per cent ; and support the upcoming publication of the Government ' s plan to far recover and reform NHS dentistry and promote good oral health throughout life . " it be a pleasure to update the House on the work the Government be do to strengthen NHS dentistry across the country . we be reform our NHS and social care system to make it fast , simple and fairer . dentistry be a vital part of our NHS and improve dentistry be one of my top priority . the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) represent a deeply urban seat , so I be pleased that he have present I with an excuse to boast about the fact that I represent , and be very proud to represent , a rural and coastal constituency . that be why fairness be one of my three priority for our NHS . I know the challenge that rural and coastal community face when it come to access an NHS dentist appointment , and the disparity in health that we see between rural and coastal community and city centre . I will come to some statistic in a moment . I be determined to fix these issue , and the other problem face NHS dentistry , so that anyone who need to can always see an NHS dentist , no matter where they live . indeed , one of my very first act as Secretary of State be to respond to the Health and Social Care Committee ' s recommendation on dentistry . we agree to the majority of those recommendation , and we stand firmly behind the ambition that NHS dentistry should be accessible and available to all who need it . rise — rise — I be go to make a little progress , but I promise to give way later . the whole House understand that the pandemic place a long - last and heavy burden on NHS dentistry . [ interruption . ] I hear groan from Opposition Members , but they can not ignore the fact that some 7 million people do not come forward for appointment during that long period of the pandemic because dentist have to shut , and we be unable to accommodate those need within the system because of the severe stricture under which we be all place as a society . we shepherd the sector through the pandemic with £ 1 . 7 billion of direct support to compensate for NHS activity that could not be deliver . as we recover from the pandemic there be no quick fix , but our recovery be well under way . let I give the late statistic , because the hon . member for Ilford North miss they out in his speech . the Government deliver 6 million more course of NHS dental treatment in 2022 - 23 than in the previous year . [ interruption . ] in the two year to June 2023 , the number of adult see a dentist increase by 1 . 7 million compare to the number in the previous year , and 800 , 000 more child see a dentist in the year to June 2023 . opposition member can not have it both way . while I be read out those statistic they be say , " you can not make those comparison because of the pandemic " , but that be the point : people do not come forward during the pandemic , so , as we must all know from experience in our own constituency , there be a backlog that dentist around the country be have to work through — and they be make progress . rise — in fairness , I will give way to the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) first , because she rise early . like the Secretary of State , I represent a rural community , and the reason dentist be hand back their NHS contract where I live be that they can not recruit another dentist to come and help they . they have not have a day off , they can not meet their commitment under their contract , and they can not recruit . they have offer golden hello of 25 % , but they have not be able to get anyone to come and work with they . what will the Secretary of State do to recruit the dentist whom we need to see the people in dental desert such as North Shropshire ? as I have explain , in relation to dentistry but also in relation to wide healthcare , the long - term workforce plan , which be request by NHS England and by clinician , be the mean of lay those foundation for the future of the NHS . I will now give way to the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) . I thank the Secretary of State . I want to intervene early when she be talk about the pandemic . in my constituency many people be throw off their dentist ' list during the pandemic , often with no notice , and then find that they could not register anywhere else . that be what happen , I believe , all over the country . can the Minister explain what she be go to do about it ? it be not that people be not visit their dentist ; they be deny access . the hon . Lady have raise an interesting and important point , because , of course , dentist be independent contractor to the NHS , and I have to work with the lever that be available to I . as I have say , we have already invest £ 1 . 7 billion to try to help with the recovery , and the House will , I hope , look forward to our dentistry recovery plan when it come to other way in which we can improve that . the important point , however , be that because those dentist be independent contractor , we must work with the profession to encourage they back to the NHS to offer the service that we all want to see . be not the root of the problem the contract that the NHS have with dentist ? the root of that , of course , lie with the previous Government , a Labour Government , rather as they do with the GP contract . do my right hon . friend not need to revisit the genesis of this problem , as well as train more dentist here in the UK ? I thank my right hon . friend , and indeed my friend , my Lincolnshire neighbour , who know as well as I do the pressure that we face in ensure that our constituent receive the same quality of care that we expect across England . he be right to draw attention to the — I would argue — badly draft contract of 2006 , but he also touch on the complexity involve in find system that would work well . rise — I can not wait to reach the part of my speech that will deal with the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion , but first I will allow he to intervene , because I enjoy this back and forth . so do I . the Secretary of State be far more entertaining than her predecessor . give that she be paint a picture of improvement , how do she explain the story in the Times which reveal that NHS dentistry activity be now fall in 2023 - 24 compare with 2022 - 23 ? be it not the case that thing be go backwards rather than forwards ? how do the Secretary of State explain that , and when be we go to see her plan ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that point , because accord to the late statistic available to I , 18 . 1 million adult be see by an NHS dentist in the 24 month up to 30 June 2023 . that be an increase of 10 % , and what do it mean in reality ? it mean that over 1 . 7 million more adult be see than in the previous year . I know that we be all concerned about the health of child ; some 6 . 4 million child be see by an NHS dentist in the 12 month up to 30 June 2023 , an increase of 14 % , which mean , in real term , an increase of 800 , 000 on the previous year . I accept , of course , that there be more to do , and we will be set that out in our dental recovery plan shortly , but this be not just about big number . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman ask when " shortly " will be . as he know full well , " shortly " be a little short than " in due course " and a little long than " imminently " . we have introduce several simple and effective measure to improve the nation ' s dental health . the Health and Care Act 2022 make it simple to expand water fluoridation scheme , because raise the fluoride level to 1 mg per litre be a straightforward way to prevent tooth decay . it have prove effective in part of England as well as Canada , the United States , Ireland and Australia , and the chief medical officer have conclude that there be " strong scientific evidence " that water fluoridation can drive down the " prevalence of tooth decay " . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the progress that have be make , while , obviously , recognise that there be more to be do . I wonder if she will help I to ask the shadow Minister to correct the record . he say that in 2010 and 2015 Labour have a plan for dental practice , but there be no mention of that in the labour manifesto . I will come back and correct that if necessary , but the hon . Gentleman be out there state that Labour have have a plan for dental recovery since 2010 , and that be not in those manifesto . my goodness I ! my hon . friend have identify a " cavity " in the shadow Minister ' s so - call plan . rise — I be go to make some progress . I be very pleased that , subject to a public consultation which will be publish shortly , we have secure funding to expand water fluoridation scheme across the north - east of England . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Ilford North may be interested to know why we have identify the north - east , give that he read out so many constituency name in his speech . the north - east be choose because natural fluoride level there be among the low in the country , and the proportion of five - year - old with tooth extract because of tooth decay be among the high . we have want to address that very real health inequality to ensure that more than 1 . 6 million people in the area can benefit from this expansion , subject , as I have say , to a public consultation . supervised tooth brushing have be raise . that have indeed be prove to drive down oral health inequality , which be why we have already introduce a toolkit that local authority be use to introduce supervised tooth brushing across school , nursery and family hub . we have be clear that we want to see that happen in more area . I would encourage any colleague who be concerned about that , rather than wait for some mythical date in the future , to ask our local authority whether they be use these toolkit , because they be freely available , and they can and should put they in place . the Secretary of State rightly talk about prevention , but what about the opposite , where rate of oral cancer have go up because prevention have not be in place ? what assessment have she make ? if she do not have the datum to hand , will she write to I with the assessment that the Department of Health and Social Care have make of the link between failure on prevention and cancer ? I thank the hon . Lady , and particularly for the constructive tone of her intervention , because she be right . this be not simply about teeth health ; it be also about the condition that dentist check for — probably without anyone quite realise that they be do so . I will take the hon . Lady up on her invitation to write to she on the figure , but that be why we be look at health inequality across the country and , importantly , focus on encourage dentist to re - register with the nhs if they have leave , because it be vital for tackle much wide health condition in addition to the pain and discomfort that tooth decay can bring . will the Secretary of State give way ? no , I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) and then I will make some progress . my right hon . friend mention lever . one issue face recruitment in North West Norfolk be the time involve in get on to the NHS performer list . newly in post , will she look at that issue and bring forward proposal as part of the plan to speed up that process and boost recruitment ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend . his intervention show the level of detail that colleague on the Conservative Benches have go into in try to address the understandable concern that local NHS provider be voice . I will look into that . I be very keen on my three word : fast , simple , fair . I want to make it as simple as possible for dentist to rejoin and join the NHS . I will say more on that later . the choice of whether patient be offer NHS exam and treatment lie with the dentist , who be independent contractor to the NHS . as well as make simple , common - sense change , in July 2022 we announce a package of far - reach reform to make nhs work more attractive to dentist . we have create more band for unit of dental activity , so that dentist be properly reward for take on more complex care , and the well - perform practice can see more NHS patient . previously , regardless of the amount of time the dentist take on each patient , they receive the same payment for every individual treatment package in band 2 , which cover filling and tooth extraction . perversely , that mean they receive the same payment for do one fill as for three . that leave many dentist unable to afford to take on patient who have not see a dentist for some time and therefore need extensive treatment . that need to be put right for the sake of both patient and dentist . thank to our reform , dentist now receive five unit of dental activity when they treat three or more tooth , which be a significant increase from the old maximum of three . root canal treatment on molar tooth be now reward with seven unit of dental activity , as oppose to three , meet one of the British Dental Association ' s key demand . we also recognise the barrier that too many community have face when access NHS dentistry , with people leave phone around practice to see who be take on NHS patient . that be why we have make it a contractual requirement for dentist to update the NHS website regularly , make it clear whether their practice be take on new patient , as well as explain the service that they offer , thus make it easy for patient to find a dentist that can deliver the care they need . these reform have improve access to dentistry and ensure that the system well support dentist and their team , so they be well receive by dentist , their representative and patient group across England , with Healthwatch ' s national director recognise that these reform show that the Government be listen to patient and take action , and these reform can help ensure that dental care be accessible and affordable to everyone who need it . I be pleased to hear about some of the reform that we have raise in this Chamber many time , particularly on change the dental contract and unit of dental activity , but may I raise another point ? in official workplace datum , dentist who do just one NHS check - up a year be count the same as an NHS full - timer . do the Secretary of State recognise that that be a problem , because that workplace datum hide the scale of the problem ? I be extremely grateful to the hon . Lady , who make a fair point about measure within the system how much work nhs dentist be do . as I say , we be look at all of this in the work that we be do on the dentistry recovery plan . I repeat that I want to make it as simple as possible for dentist to register with the NHS , to continue offer the care that we all want they to , so I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her intervention . rise — I be go to plough on , I be afraid . early , Labour Front Benchers — perhaps not understand that they be do so — set out the philosophical difference between our two party on how to grow the economy . as our economy grow , we on the conservative side of the House want to attract the good and the bright from around the world to work in our NHS , in our tech sector , in our life science industry , in our movie industry — hon . member may know that it film " Barbie " this year — and in many other thrive industry . labour , however , apparently want to shut the door by tax such people on earning they make outside the UK . I speak , of course , of non - domicile tax status . if I may correct the hon . member for Ilford North , because I appreciate that he have not spend any time on the Front Bench , last year alone non - domicile taxpayer pay £ 8 billion in UK taxis on their UK earning . that be equivalent to more than 230 , 000 nurse . labour want to put that at risk and put the UK at a disadvantage in the highly pay , highly competitive , highly mobile international labour market . this really be yet another branch of the magic money tree that Labour have always be look for , to which they apparently want to add £ 28 billion a year of taxis or increase borrowing and increase inflation . how they want to spend this money be interesting as well , because in 2022 Labour promise that their non - domicile taxation would fund a workforce plan . last September , it become breakfast club meal . then , by October , it have morph into 2 million hospital appointment and MRI and CT scanner . now , apparently , it be fund a dentistry plan . one wonder how all these magic branch on the magic money tree will add up to all the promise make so far . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will resist , but only because I be go to ask the hon . gentleman to intervene in a moment — he should be careful what he wish for . I also notice that he talk about reform of the dental contract but do not give any detail . government be not as easy as sell a book . it can not be cut and paste from Wikipedia , as some on the Labour Front Bench seem to like to do . it be about be clear on what you would do differently . now , Labour in Wales be of course run the Welsh NHS . they do like to do thing differently . People there be almost twice as likely to be wait for health treatment as in England . the Leader of the Opposition state that the Labour Government in Wales be a blueprint for what Labour can do in the UK . give that 97 % of high street dentist in Wales state that labour ' s reform be not work , do the Secretary of State agree that NHS dentistry be be destroy by Labour in Wales , and that if Wales be their blueprint for UK dentistry , we should all be very afraid ? I thank my hon . friend , who represent a Welsh constituency . the chair of the British Dental Association write to the Labour Welsh Government to complain about their plan and , I understand , use word such as " toxic mix of underinvestment " and " untested target . " the picture in Wales , if it be the Leader of the Opposition ' s blueprint , be perhaps not as convincing as the shadow Health Secretary would have we believe . the fundamental difference between the current system in England and labour - run Wales be that Wales have a capitate list system for dentistry . I be willing to give way so that the shadow Health Secretary can clarify whether he want to bring in that system . I can not believe that be mean to be the right hon . Lady ' s big " Gotcha . " she can not even tell we when she will bring forward her plan , let alone what be in it . they have have 14 year to come up with a plan . this be absolutely astonishing . as much as I enjoy these partisan knockabout at the Dispatch Box , the sight of the Health Secretary giggle and laugh at her own joke will be of small comfort to people who be literally pull out their own tooth . just to cut through all the froth , the hon . Gentleman have not , in fact , answer my invitation . do he wish to have a capitate list system , as they have in Wales , or do he have other plan ? could he please answer ? like any responsible Government , we would consult the dentistry profession , the BDA , and come up with a serious programme for dentistry reform . if the right hon . Lady want to ask I question and have I answer they , the Government should call a general election and I will happily oblige . again , cut through the froth , the hon . Gentleman call this debate and have not set out his plan . he know full well that this be an Opposition day debate and I be respond to labour ' s motion by move an amendment . he have no plan on dentistry . when I ask he to clarify whether he will follow the capitate system in Wales , he decline to answer . I assume that be because he know we test a prototype system base on the Welsh capitation approach here in England , and the result be clear . it worsen access and widen oral health inequality . the hon . Gentleman quote the Nuffield Trust , place great emphasis on it , in his opening speech . as he agree so much with the Nuffield Trust ' s report , do he also agree with its former chief executive who say that his idea on general practice represent " an out of date view " and " will cost a fortune " ? it be become increasingly clear that the Labour party ' s approach to our NHS be empty word about reform follow by the phrase " fund by non - dom . " we be very lucky in this country — on this side of the House we consider ourselves bless — to have incredible dentist work across the NHS . here be some fact for Opposition Members . there be now 1 , 352 more dentist work in the NHS than 14 year ago , thank to the stewardship of this Conservative Government . I thank they and their colleague for everything they do , and we be back they to build a bright future for NHS dentistry by take concrete step to improve recruitment and retention . that be why our long - term workforce plan , the first in NHS history , will expand dentistry training place by 40 % , provide more than 1 , 100 place by 2031 , which will be the high level on record under any Government . over the same period , this Government ' s plan will also increase training place for dental therapist and hygiene professional to more than 500 . the importance of the long - term workforce plan to dentistry ' s future be recognise across the sector , and Professor Kirsty Hill , who chair the Dental Schools Council , back our plan : " expansion be a significant and positive development , and we commend the government for recognise the importance of increase dental hygiene and dental therapist position . these role play a vital role in enhance capacity and improve care . " I find it absolutely extraordinary that the Health Secretary lecture the shadow Health Secretary on call a debate to hold this Government to account . twelve million people be not able to access dental care , include thousand in my Oldham constituency . what ' s your plan ? you be the Government , unless you want to call a general election . order . the hon . Lady know that she must not refer directly to other member . I think the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) be raise her voice at I , but it be not I who heckle she . I recognise the passion she bring to her intervention , and I simply make the point that this be an Opposition day debate . the hon . member for Ilford North understandably set out some of his plan , which be his job , and I be merely question he on the detail of those plan . sadly , he be not able to provide that detail . the long - term workforce plan be about not just train more staff but deliver value for hard - work taxpayer . currently , around a third of dentist do not carry out any NHS work . this simply be not fair on the taxpayer who fund their training , which be why , through the long - term workforce plan , we be explore the introduction of a tie - in period that encourage dentist , after they graduate , to spend a minimum proportion of their time deliver NHS care . we have also make it easy for experienced dentist from around the world to come to the UK to ply their trade , which be apparently something with which Labour member do not agree . last year , we bring forward legislation to give the General Dental Council great flexibility in administer the overseas registration exam . the Government welcome its decision to triple the capacity of the next three sitting of part one of the ORE , from August last year , and to increase the number of sitting of the second part of the exam from three to four , create an additional 1 , 300 place . minister will continue to meet the GDC to discuss how we can make these flexibility as effective as possible , to get more dentist into the NHS workforce deliver care for patient . I thank the Secretary of State for give way . it be worth repeat that the Nuffield Trust have warn that NHS dentistry be at its most perilous point in its 75 - year history . that go alongside recent Healthwatch polling suggest that one in 10 people in England have end up pay for private dental treatment in the last 12 month because they could not find an NHS dentist . it have be the same in my constituency , where the majority of dental surgery be not take on new patient . can the Secretary of State explain how on earth thing have get this bad ? I trust that the hon . Lady have be listen to the whole debate , because I set this out in some detail at the beginning of my speech . I will not repeat the impact of the pandemic , but I hope she have take on board the £ 1 . 7 billion of investment that have already see a sizeable increase in the number of adult and child be treat by NHS dentistry . I do not pretend that this be the full stop at the end of the sentence . we have a plan and I look forward to our debate when that plan be publish , because I suspect it will be welcome across the House . I commend my right hon . friend for her powerful speech . the plan will improve financial incentive for NHS dentist and support practice to take on new patient , but to what extent will she and the plan take on board high operating cost and , indeed , the high cost of live in area where there be high demand for NHS dentistry ? I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . I can imagine that the concern he outline be very pressing in his constituency , and one important priority behind the dental recovery plan work be address health inequality . although I have speak about rural and coastal area from a constituency perspective , we also understand , of course , that there be differ cost of living pressure in different part of the country . he make an important point about the cost for NHS dentist operate in very expensive part of the country , such as his constituency , and I thank he for do so . our workforce be not just make up of dentist ; dental care in England could not function without the vital contribution of dental and orthodontic therapist , dental hygienist , dental nurse and clinical dental technician . we recognise the importance of harness the skill and knowledge of all those professional . they can support dentist to carry out first - class care , and we must empower they to take on more responsibility and to work at the top of their licence . that be why last year we issue guidance to NHS practice , support they to make the most of everyone in the dental team and make a difference to patient care . since then , NHS England have make it clear that dental therapist and dental hygienist can provide patient with direct care , provide they be appropriately qualified , competent and indemnified . we have also run a consultation to enable dental therapist and hygienist to deliver more treatment . that will boost access to care for patient and support dentist , and we will be set out our next step shortly . rise — I be conscious that Opposition Members will want time today , so I be go to bring my remark to a close . it be my mission , as Health and Social Care Secretary , to build an nhs that be fast , simple and fair , and of course I include dentistry in that work . we have take the long - term decision that will improve access to dental care . deliver 6 million more course of treatment , expand dentistry training place by 40 % and make it easy for patient to find a dentist to deliver the care they need be just some of the way in which we be go to achieve that . of course , we must make sure that dentist be properly reward for all the work they do . through our soon - to - be - publish dentistry recovery plan , we will go far , to make NHS dentistry accessible and available for everyone who need it , no matter where they call home in this great country . rise — order . as colleague will see , this be a very well - subscribe debate , so I be go to impose an immediate time limit of six minute , which I hope will allow everybody to have roughly the same amount of time . I have be able to tell the first two speaker that I be do that . the crisis in NHS dentistry be plain to see and it be affect so many of my constituent . I be therefore grateful for this opportunity to shed light on this emergency and to support Labour ' s plan to rebuild our broken dentistry . People be find it impossible to find an NHS dentist for themselves and their child , which be lead to serious consequence for public health . it be also exacerbate health inequality , and create a divide between those who can afford private dentistry and those who can not . the proportion of child with dental decay in the most deprived area be more than two and a half time great than it be in the least deprived area , and the gap be widen . that have lead to a public health crisis : 169 child each day be undergo tooth extraction ; rot tooth be , shockingly , the no . 1 cause of hospital admission among six to 10 - year - old ; and one in 10 people have even attempt their own do - it - yourself dentistry , which just do damage and put even more pressure on the NHS . that read like a Charles Dickens novel , but it be the harsh reality of 14 year of conservative government . nowhere be that more apparent than in my constituency , where not one of the seven dental surgery that recently provide an update be accept new adult patient and only one be accept new child patient . although those figure be appal , they be not surprising . I be regularly contact by constituent who can not find an NHS dentist and can not afford to go private . they ask I , " what be I suppose to do ? " . without radical reform , there be no answer I can give they . we often talk about crumble dental service , but in my constituency they have already crumble ; the service simply be not there for the people who need they most . one constituent have contact more than 25 dentist in Sheffield , with each tell she the same thing : they be not accept new NHS patient at this time . the good she have be offer be to be put on a waiting list , which could last year . she can not afford to go private , so she and her young child be stick without any access to a dentist . we have also see the provision of community dental service grind to a halt . those service be a vital safety net , provide specialised treatment when other dentist can not accommodate the need of disabled people and people with long - term health condition . that safety net be no long there for all too many people . research show that , nationally , more than 12 , 000 child be on a waiting list for community dental service at the start of 2023 , and they could face wait of up to 80 week for tooth extraction . Healthwatch have hear from many people and their carer who can not access community dentistry , leave they without treatment . the basic provision of NHS dentistry have be wear away on this Government ' s watch . the warn sign of this crisis have be stark for year , but Ministers have continue to bury their head in the sand . funding have be cut in real term , mean that dentist be leave the NHS in drove and area such as mine have become dental desert . it be clear that this Government be not willing to provide the radical change need to bring NHS dentistry back from the brink . in April last year , Ministers promise a new dental recovery plan ; but we be still wait for it to see the light of day . I urge the Minister to tell we when that will happen and not just say " soon " . Labour have formulate a fully cost plan that will get NHS dentistry back up and run . the good treatment be prevention , which be why Labour will introduce a target , supervise toothbrushing scheme for three to five - year - old , encourage lifelong good dental hygiene . labour will also provide an extra 700 , 000 urgent appointment per year to help the most vulnerable access the service they need and introduce an incentive scheme to bring more dentist to dental desert . I be proud to say that all of that will be pay for by abolish the non - dom tax status . those tangible step will bring NHS dentistry back to constituency such as mine , where service have disappear . where this Government have fail , Labour will step in and help all our constituent to access the NHS dentistry they need . I will be proud to support labour ' s plan in today ' s vote , and I urge all colleague , include Conservative Members , to vote with we . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Health and Social Care . last July , the Health and Social Care Committee , which I chair , publish an important report on NHS dentistry , and I urge colleague to read it if they have not already do so — it have be mention a few time . that inquiry be more necessary than ever , and I would argue that the issue our constituent face in access an NHS dentist now be a great challenge for my Front - Bench colleague than the much high - profile health promise to " cut the waiting list " that feature in the Prime Minister ' s five pledge . I say that because every Member face this challenge . the Secretary of State ' s amendment rightly reference the pandemic and the massive impact it have have on dentistry ; to ignore that be to ignore basic fact . our Committee conclude that NHS dentistry be face a crisis of access — no understatement — result in a decline in oral health . our report be describe by the British Dental Association as " an instruction manual to save NHS dentistry . " base on the evidence — I stress the word evidence — receive by the cross - party Committee , it set out what the Government should do to address the crisis . I thank the Secretary of State for come before the Committee just before Christmas and for ensure that we receive a formal response to our report , albeit a few week later than I would have like . the motion propose by the Labour party today contain some reasonable part : it be obvious that some people be resort to DIY dentistry and it be a fact that some people be attend a & E because of dental challenge . the opposition talk about the provision of 700 , 000 urgent appointment a year , but I can not support the motion because I hear no detail or explanation about how that will be do , who the dentist be who will fulfil all those appointment or where they will happen . the opposition talk about recruit new dentist to the area that be most in need but , as the Secretary of State say in her opening remark , we be increase dentistry training place by 40 % as part of the NHS long - term workforce plan , which be the big expansion of place on record . that be important and should be recognise , as it be from the Government Dispatch Box . when give evidence to the Select Committee ' s inquiry , the then parliamentary Under - Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) , describe the Government ' s ambition for NHS dentistry , say : " we do want everyone who need one to be able to access an NHS dentist — absolutely " the Committee welcome that ambition but , if I be honest , we be surprise by it . in their most optimistic reading of the reality on the ground , what lead the new ministerial team to believe that that be deliverable ? when she sum up , will the Minister repeat that ambition , as her predecessor do ? do not get I wrong , Madam Deputy Speaker : I absolutely believe that everyone should be able to access an NHS dentist when they need one , wherever they live , but give the reality of where we be now , I question whether that be possible . in our report , we ask the Government to set out how they intend to realise that ambition and the timeline for delivery as a matter of urgency . they accept the recommendation , but the detail , as we have hear , be still lack . now be the time , please . let I touch on the dental contract . it be right to recognise that action have be take . some initial change be make to the dental contract in July 2022 , and we have assurance of fundamental reform from the then Minister , and again from his successor as Minister responsible for dentistry , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , who be on the Treasury Bench . my Committee believe that a fundamentally reform contract must be implement at the early possible stage . it have to represent a full move away from the current system of unit of dental activity — uda — in favour of a weighted capitation - base system that provide financial incentive for see new patient and those with great dental need , and in turn prioritise prevention and person - centre care . failure to do so risk more dentist stop nhs work , or not start it , and exacerbate the issue that my constituent be experience with access care . as I have say in the House before , my dentist recently give up nhs work , which be a big , emotional decision for she . any reform to the contract now be too late for she . the Opposition and the Government have to work out how they be go to get people to come back to NHS dentistry , and reform the contract to stop more people access the exit door . it be not just about contract reform : workplace reform be greatly important . we do not get significant acknowledgement of the lack of accurate datum about the dental workforce in our report , so will Ministers revisit that ? there be many other recommendation that I do not have time to go into today , but the report be available , as be the Government ' s response . the Secretary of State have make a good start and say she have begin to lay the foundation of change . I be encourage by that but , to my Committee ' s continue frustration , there be still no date for the publication of the dental recovery plan . if we do not solve this crisis , we will continue to hear about it in the House and from constituent . the crisis place additional pressure on already stretch service . today be too late for dentist who be think of leave and for patient who have run out of option . we need a short - term set of action for constituent who be suffer pain today , and we need a fully reform dental recovery plan hot on its heel . there can not be any further delay . the Nuffield Trust recently announce that without radical action universal NHS dentistry be " go for good " . some 90 % of practice across the UK no long accept new NHS patient . for 14 year this Conservative Government have bring about the decay of our vital NHS dental healthcare service , so now be the time for a clear strategy , a recommitment to the future of a universal NHS dental service , and a Government who be determined to provide the care that people across this country , and their child , deserve . the crisis of NHS dentistry have be entirely predictable . in fact , I have be at the forefront of these prediction over many year . just last year , in a debate that I lead in this place , I describe the path of NHS dentistry as a " slow - motion car crash " . in 2016 , I warn of a mount crisis and draw the Government ' s attention to a report warn that half of dentist be think of leave the NHS . in the follow year , I again warn that the number of dentist intend to leave the NHS be rise even far and , in 2020 , after year of repeat warning , I once again inform the Government that of those remain , some 58 % of the UK ' s dentist be plan to move away from NHS dentistry within five year . last year , the then Minister assure the House that he be plan to publish a plan to reform dentistry , but the limited reform propose in July do little but paper over the grow crack . More than 1 , 000 dentist have leave the NHS since the pandemic , and the number of treatment complete each year be now 6 million low than it be before the pandemic . even before the pandemic , access be poor , with only enough dentistry commission for around half the population in England . as it stand , the future be bleak . a BDA survey show that 75 % of dentist be think of reduce their NHS commitment this year . in Bradford , a shocking 445 people have to be treat in hospital for dental - relate issue between 2022 and 2023 . this can not be the future of NHS dentistry : extraction and emergency care , but only for those who can not afford private dental care . one dentist in my constituency say : " I ' ve be say it for year : the NHS dental contract need fundamental reform . without immediate action , there will be no Universal NHS Dentistry . " but NHS dentistry be not yet " go for good " . that claim would leave swathe of people in this country destine for a future of rot tooth and poor dental health . we can not stand by and let the principle of NHS dentistry in this country be erode . the decline be not irreversible or inevitable — it be a political choice . I know that targeted investment be possible . in 2017 , I work on a project in Bradford with the then Health Minister , the hon . member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , who be now Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . the project invest £ 250 , 000 of unused contract clawback in my Bradford South constituency , and ensure that patient be able to access roughly 3 , 000 new NHS dental appointment in an area of prove high dental deprivation . although that provide a short - term solution , it do not address the wide long - term issue of access to NHS dental care . we can still save NHS dentistry , but we need a Government who be commit to reform and to the NHS . it right that the Labour party put NHS dentistry front and centre alongside plan to build an NHS fit for the future . labour have commit to provide an extra 700 , 000 urgent dental appointment and to real reform of the NHS dental contract . as the Leader of the Opposition , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , have make clear on many occasion , healthcare must be as much about prevention as it be about cure . in 2021 - 2022 , tooth decay be , shamefully , the most common reason for hospital admission for child between six and 10 year old . this country once have a strong school dental service , and with such shocking rate of child tooth decay , it be time to look again at that policy , and at the role of dental therapist in the NHS . it be the right thing to do to catch up on a generation of lose dental health . nhs dentistry be not " go for good " , but it stand on the edge of a new era . there be one clear solution : the Government must recommit to a universal NHS dental service that will care for every person , from the cradle to the grave . I listen carefully and with interest to what the shadow Secretary of State say in his opening remark . I like the man , but he clearly see this matter as a potential political football , which come as no surprise to I . as for I , my interest be in the constituent I represent . they do not care so much about the bickering between we , but they do care about their oral health . I be glad to have the opportunity to speak in this debate . as we have hear , every constituent will need access to dental activity during the course of their life . I have take a great interest in this matter and speak about it to hundred of constituent and several dentist . in fact , over the weekend I speak to some dentist who do not support labour ' s plan and want to see the Government advance their reform — I be glad to hear more about those reform today . I have raise the matter of NHS dentistry several time in the House with two separate Prime Ministers , include in January 2022 , June 2022 , April 2023 and September 2023 , and also with several Ministers , include the one on the Front Bench , and the Secretary of State . the Secretary of State ' s predecessor say it be a priority to increase the number of dentist in specific part of the country , and mention the south - west in particular . we be see some early green shoot appear . none the less , people in the south - west and Cornwall be struggle to get access to a dentist . I still receive weekly email from constituent who be not get the treatment that they need , or who be spend their time and money travel to NHS practice in Manchester or London , or even abroad , to pay for private care . I have witness dental practice give up NHS contract , or vastly reduce NHS treatment , force some people to fully fund their own care and other , who can not afford that , to go without treatment . I have raise this issue with the Health Secretary in the Chamber quite recently . when I speak to people in dental practice , they say they be as frustrated as I be . they have a contract with the NHS to provide thousand of unit of dental activity , but the funding allocation be claw back by the nhs if they can not deliver those unit . they can not deliver the unit , as we have hear already , because the value be too low to attract the staff that they need . last year , a practice that I be work with pay more than £ 132 , 000 in clawback to our integrate care board . that be enough funding to treat 1 , 600 patient . nationally , underspend in the NHS dental budget could reach £ 500 million . we know that the NHS dental contract need reform : it do not work for dentist and it certainly do not work for our patient . none the less , I be pleased that integrate care board be take ownership of dentistry and drive the delivery of dental care in our region . in Cornwall , the ICB have already grip the issue , use what resource it have to increase capacity . I be disappoint by the shadow Secretary of State ' s reference to the work go on in Cornwall . the ICB do not see the work that it be do as restrict NHS dentistry just to child , the elderly and vulnerable people . that be absolutely not the case . what it be do be look at where the shortage be and seek to address they with the resource it have . the truth be that one third of adult in Cornwall be still access NHS dentistry . we have see new NHS dental provision in Helston and in St Ives — two of my major town — and there be a real ambition among dentist to take on more once they be allow to do so . the workforce plan need to set out not just the number of dentist , dental nurse and other dental profession , but where they be locate . we have a brilliant dental suite in Truro , but graduate rarely stay in the south - west once they have be train . we be see a slight improvement , with dental practice offer foundation placement for graduate in Cornwall , include in St Ives , where the potential be great . I recognise that the Minister be just as keen as I be to empower the entire dental team to work to their full potential for NHS patient , but there remain barrier to fully implement direct access in NHS - fund dental care . as I understand it , medicine can be administer by dental care professional when they provide care to patient who pay privately , but this do not apply to NHS dental patient . on a recent visit to a practice in St Ives , the owner explain to I the impact of this disparity . we have therapist in most location in the south - west ready to increase nhs access , especially for young child , as most of the work for that patient cohort be within their scope of practice . it be disappointing that we can not use those therapist fully . dentist be reluctant to sign off prescription because of time issue and because of not understand the process . our therapist be do only hygiene work , and some of they be leave because of the lack of work . my understanding be that a statutory instrument be require , which be in the gift of the Minister . this simple piece of legislation would provide the opportunity for NHS dental practice to use the full skillset and competency of their dental staff to increase the delivery of desperately need dental care . will the Minister indicate today whether she be able to bring such an SI to the House and unleash an army of dental professional to do what they believe they be train to do ? finally , in 2021 - 22 , £ 4 . 5 million of unmet dental care be return from Cornwall to the NHS . it be now lose in the NHS system . will the Minister assure I that never again will that kind of money be grab or steal from Cornwall ' s dental patient , return to the NHS and not use to deliver the dental care that they need ? I receive a large amount of correspondence on dentistry . since my election just over four year ago , I have have several people come to see I , I have visit practice in Stockport , and I have often receive communication from people on the issue . I thank the British Dental Association for all the work that it have do on NHS dentistry over the year , and the Nuffield Trust for provide excellent briefing for this debate , and for its commitment to highlight the issue with NHS dentistry across England . it be shocking that 12 million people be unable to access NHS dental care last year . that be more than one in four adult in England . the crisis in NHS dentistry be have a disproportionate impact on low - income people and vulnerable group . this be a class issue . if a person be on a low income , they be much less likely to have access to NHS dentistry than if they live in a more affluent area . as have be mention , oral cancer be one of the fast - rise cancer . the reality be that people from deprived community be significantly more likely to develop it and die from it . it be shameful and unacceptable that the Government be not do enough to tackle this issue . dentist be often the first health professional to spot symptom of oral cancer . this dentistry crisis mean that few case of oral cancer will be detect early , add even more pressure on to the NHS , and , more importantly , detrimentally impact people ' s health . as I say , this be a significant issue in my constituency . a few month ago , I write to every single dental practice in my constituency and include a small survey that they could fill out . the response that I receive from dentist and dental worker do not make for positive reading . I will quote from one of the contribution that I receive . the dentist in question write : " the whole service have be underfunde for year . I receive a very low UDA rate compare to other practice in the area . in 2006 , I be pay £ 22 UDA and now it be £ 27 . patient need to know that we be not just greedy dentist . there be a shortage of dental nurse so they be demand more money . where be I suppose to find that extra funding ? " that be just one of the contribution that I receive back follow my survey . it be a significant issue . People on low income and people with complex health issue often tend to miss out on NHS dentistry . I be glad that the shadow Health and Social Care team have secure this debate today and that the shadow Secretary of State highlight just some of the key thing that Labour will deliver in government , include significantly more appointment , significantly more dentist in the NHS service , and supervise toothbrushing in primary school . in April last year , the Government pledge to provide a recovery plan for NHS dentistry . the plan have yet to be publish . may I ask the Minister , through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , when it will be publish ? why be the Government be so shifty about this ? why will they not address this issue and tell we whether and when it will be publish ? it seem that , in Stockport and across England , the Government be fail patient badly not just when it come to dentistry , but with record waiting list for the NHS . sadly , the reality be that people ' s life in Stockport and England be be hold back by this Government . the hon . member mention the so - call NHS dentistry recovery plan cite by the Government . I be play a game of NHS dentistry bingo , provide to I by the BDA . one of the 16 thing that we be to listen out for today be : " our Recovery Plan will be publish shortly " . I have check that off several time this afternoon . do he agree that it be dishonest for the Government to claim that NHS dentistry be some sort of universal service ? I agree with the hon . member and thank he for his contribution . I think the BDA tag I on Twitter in its dentistry bingo . I have not manage to play yet but will definitely be check it out . he make the point that the Government be be dishonest . the Government be be more than dishonest ; they will not tell we if and when the plan will be publish . they clearly do not have a plan to address the backlog in NHS waiting list or the crisis in NHS dentistry in England . the next Labour Government will tackle the issue of NHS dentistry and the million of people rot on the NHS waiting list . they will also improve people ' s quality of life in Stockport and across Britain . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate and to raise the issue that so many people face across the south - west and south Devon , many of whom be in immense pain . I will start by respond to some of the remark make early in the debate . it be acceptable to make the point that the NHS contract from 2006 do not work and have not work . it be acceptable to say that we try to make it work , and we hit an enormous roadblock in the form of the pandemic , which have show the system to be want . none of those be controversial statement to make . labour should not be outrage when we ask for their plan . time and again , Labour Members go in front of the camera and say they have a plan for this and that and everything we might possibly imagine , so we therefore should be able to ask they , give that this be their debate . they can laugh , as they be do now , or smile about this , but it be a serious and legitimate question . if they be a Government in wait , they should come up with proposal for a short - term solution to this issue . the shadow Health Secretary , the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , decide to tell I that he and the Labour party have be talk about this issue since 2010 . indeed , he say it be in their manifesto in 2010 and 2015 . I can not find any record of it be in their manifesto . in fact , it be hard to actually see when the shadow Health Secretary even care about this issue before his appointment , but I will leave that to other to make clear in the course of the debate . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State make perfectly clear the challenge we face . she make the point clearly that there have be some improvement , but no Conservative Member be complacent . we be all aware of this , because we speak to our constituent and look at our email inboxe . we be aware of the size of the trouble and problem be face . it should be welcome that we be now push taxpayer - fund dentist who have be in training to work within the NHS at the end of their training . it should be welcome that there be 40 % more dental training place and that we be look at way in which we can bring dentist from abroad , as well as create training place right across the country . I welcome the report and comment by the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) . all of that boil down to what we think the priority of NHS dentistry should be . simply put , have speak to many dentist in my constituency , the priority boil down to three area : prevention , education and pain relief . [ interruption . ] I do not think many people be look to disagree on that point , but if the hon . member for Birmingham , Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) want to disagree with I , she can . the point be that the pandemic have blow two of those priority off course . the focus for the short term must be how we address pain relief . that be the issue we face today , and child and those of an old age be suffer from it across the country . what be the short - term action that we can take today ? they have be mention by many conservative Members . we can look at dental access centre and mobile unit that can move across the country . we might think those be fantasy , but they be already in practice in some place in the country . indeed , they have be raise by a number of dentist in my area of south Devon , who suggest that they be not just feasible but incredibly possible with the underspend that have not be utilise . we must unlock the money that have not be spend through NHS contract . I be sure my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) will correct I if I be wrong , but I understand that some £ 50 million of underspend on NHS dentist contract could be make available to help those on waiting list . as a number of Labour Members have say , we must allow dental therapist to play a large role in help treat people within the process and address their need . as I have say , we must focus on pain relief as the priority . reform of UDAs have to happen as quickly as possible . the time and geographical disparity mean the system have be find want , and it be clear right across the country — whether in urban , rural or coastal community setting — that there be huge disparity in remuneration for a UDA . rather than stand here and speak about parliamentary candidate , it be probably more appropriate to think about the solution that we can find to help those who be suffer so much . I will give example of what be go on in Devon . we have 17 , 000 more uda , which be welcome . we have a dental care stabilisation system . we have 406 extra appointment per week , which can be find through contact 111 . we have one of the fine dental training school in the form of the Peninsula Dental School , locate just outside Plymouth . it be work to help address the need and to support the Government in help area across the country . it be look to help ensure that its trainee remain within the area after their training , to make the NHS as flexible as possible to the need of those who need to use it . we must have reform . many of we on the conservative Back Benches agree that we must have the reform that have be promise before , because they be the hook that we can hang our hat on , and they will be the solution . if the Minister could look at the short - term solution I have propose and give a response , that would be welcome not just in my part of the country , but all across the country . surely in this day and age everybody should have the right to receive dental treatment when they need it . that be the fundamental principle of the national health service that we , the Labour party , found all those glorious year ago . unfortunately , as Labour member know — it have be well document throughout the debate so far — the principle behind national health service dentistry have be severely undermine and erode in each one of the 14 year of this Tory Government . today , quite astoundingly , I think the Secretary of State mention that at some stage , shortly , they will publish a long - term plan . fourteen year on , they will publish some kind of long - term plan shortly , with no date . that be the state of chaos that this country be govern by at the moment . meanwhile , 12 million people can not get the dental treatment they need and deserve . we all know a bit too well that 90 % of dental practice in England be close to NHS routine patient . that be essentially create dental desert all across the country , include , of course , in my constituency . it be something I see all too often in the Halton and the Cheshire West and Chester part of my constituency . I see only too clearly how bleak and extreme the dentistry desert landscape have become . I be recently contact by my constituent Allan from Northwich , who have be register with the local dentist for over 10 year . after a visit to a private hygienist , he be advise to book a dental check - up . when he try to do so , he be tell that he have be de - register as an NHS patient because he have not have a check - up in over two year . that happen during the pandemic , and he be one of many people who could not have a check - up in that period . again , that have be document in the debate . he be tell that the dentist be not take any new NHS patient due to a lack of capacity , yet he could be offer a fully private pay check - up in just a few week ' time . of course , if people do not have the money in their pocket and do not have the ability to pay , that be not possible , and that be the case for far too many of our constituent up and down the country . why should Allan , and million like he , not be able to get access to the NHS dental service they need if they can not afford private care — unlike some in this country , and even some member on the rather sparse Government Benches that I see at the moment ? across Britain , too many people face the stark choice of have to pay for expensive payment plan in the private sector or go without dental treatment . the case of people resort to DIY treatment have be well document , as have the additional strain on our NHS hospital service when people go for emergency dental treatment . the problem extend to all part of my community . in a recent meeting with the joint headteacher of Leftwich Community Primary School , they raise the desperate attempt they have make to try to get NHS dental appointment for some of their primary schoolchildren . of course that be not the teacher ' bread - and - butter issue , but they be go the extra mile to help some of the child most in need in my constituency — and again to no avail . what have the Government do to ensure increase access to dentist across England , include in my patch in Cheshire and Merseyside ? the short answer be not a lot , and the situation be get bad . I and other Members of Parliament who represent Cheshire and Merseyside constituency recently meet the chief executive and chair of the integrate care board , who tell we that they have be inform by the Department of Health and Social Care that the underspend that they have inherit to spend on local dentistry , which amount to some £ 10 million , must now be de - ringfence and use for what they class " inflationary cost pressure " , not for NHS dentistry . that have come from the Department itself . I would be interested to hear a response from the Minister on that , because it be incredible that NHS England previously say that that money be ringfence , yet now we have evidence from the integrate care board of direction from the Department of Health and Social Care say , " no , you will spend it on other thing . " with my neighbouring mp across Cheshire and Merseyside , we make strong representation to the chair and chief executive of the integrate care board , but , as outline by my good colleague the shadow Secretary of State , this be happen up and down the country . it be happen everywhere , almost by design : run down NHS dentistry , make it a thing of the past so that the default position be private dentistry . one of the most important step the Government can take to improve access to NHS dental care be to boost our workforce and train more dentist and dental professional , in line with the Government ' s NHS long - term workforce plan , which have a clear reference to dental training as a priority . I will focus in particular on the importance of train dental professional , who support dentist in many important way . the workforce plan recognise that we must ensure that the skill of our whole dental workforce be utilise , by support dental hygienist , dental therapist , dental nurse and other to provide additional care , free up more time for dentist and increase overall dental care and provision . I will focus on the importance of that and what the Government be do to prioritise it . I digress briefly by say that in my own professional background as a solicitor — I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — I know how vital it be that our support staff be there to help the qualified solicitor do our job . we could not work without they and without their expertise , often hone over many year and in particular specialised area . the same apply to the dental profession . I applaud and commend all those who work in the profession and support dentist . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement that we must empower they to take on even more responsibility — not because it be a burden , but because I can see how those work in professional environment find their work increasingly fulfil the more responsibility they be train to take on . I support her statement that we should do that and ensure that those staff be qualified , competent and indemnify . turn to the NHS long - term workforce plan in particular , while it be commendable that dentistry training place have a target and the Government be work to expand place by 24 % by 2028 - 29 , I particularly applaud the focus on increase training place for dental therapy and hygiene professional by 28 % in the same period , add hundred more professional to our dental workforce . that work be not just look to the future , but be happen now : in the past year , NHS England have make an investment in postgraduate dental specialty training , focus on area currently underserviced by exist provision , which will improve access to specialist dental service . as the plan state : " we recognise the important contribution to dental care that the wide dental workforce make , include dental nurse . while training of dental nurse be largely the responsibility of dental practice , we will work with dental practice and other stakeholder to support the wide dental workforce to meet NHS service delivery plan for dentistry . " it be hearten to note that " the Plan aim to deliver 15 % of dental activity through dental therapist and dental hygienist , as oppose to the current estimate of 5 % . " that have to be a positive target to work to . in addition , the plan focus on the " national Return to Therapy programme … be develop to enable dental therapist work as hygienist to fulfil their full scope of practice " , and state that " NHS England be reform contractual arrangement to encourage more dentist back into NHS practice and to make it easy for therapist and hygienist to provide NHS care " . I will move on to the consultation that the Government hold on make well use of the whole dental workforce , support dental hygienist and therapist to provide additional care to patient . I know the Secretary of State have say that the Government will shortly set out the outcome of the consultation . I urge they to do so and to take particular note of any contribution to that consultation from dental hygienist , therapist or nurse . they have so much to offer through their work at the coalface on the challenge that we all recognise in ensure that everyone can see a dentist quickly and receive the treatment they need to keep themselves healthy and well . dental care be an essential part of the NHS and should continue to be so for the future . I sit on the Health and Social Care Committee and be shock at what I hear during the inquiry , but it line up with what resident in my constituency be face . there be more than 100 , 000 people live in my constituency and only seven dental surgery , at least three of which be not accept any new adult patient . that issue be not unique to Erdington . across the west midland , 73 % of dentist be not accept any new adult patient . a constituent contact I after her dentist ' s practice close down , as she have spend four hour trawl through website and ringing practice , and she be not get anywhere . she can not afford private dental care , and her son have a serious health condition that mean he require regular dental check - up . she explain that to every practice she could , but without success . another constituent ' s daughter be refer for brace in 2021 . two year later , after be refer to three separate orthodontist , she be tell that there be a waiting list of more than 1 , 500 child , and it continue to rise . the response that I receive from NHS England advise my constituent to call 111 for any urgent care service , and say that it be " work to address the challenge face the service right now . " the list of challenge be long . the record of the Conservative Government mean that NHS dentistry have completely collapse . over the past two year , 6 million adult try and fail to get an appointment , and 4 . 4 million do not even try because they know that there be no hope . rot tooth be the no . 1 reason that child age six to 10 be admit to hospital . despite that , seven in 10 UK dentist be not accept any new child patient . shamefully , one in 10 people in the UK have attempt their own dental work out of pure desperation . that be how my constituent be experience the shocking record of the Conservative Government : get they to properly fund our NHS be quite literally like pull tooth . in April last year , Ministers promise a dental recovery plan . in December , the Secretary of State promise in the Government ' s response to the Health and Social Care Committee ' s report — I be there — that the plan would be " publish shortly , " so where be it ? unlike the Government , Labour do have a plan that would help people in our community to access the NHS dentistry that they so desperately need . labour would fund NHS practice to provide 700 , 000 more urgent appointment . our plan would create incentive for new dentist to work in the dental desert that the Tories have create . and , rather than offer stick - plaster solution , we would reform the dental contract to rebuild the service in the long term . it be become more and more obvious , everywhere we look in Britain , that nothing work , and our NHS dentistry be no exception . my constituent , and people across the UK , can not go on without basic healthcare while we watch our nhs crumble around we . only the Labour party have a plan for NHS dentistry . like a decay tooth , it be time for this Government ' s extraction . I wish to put on the record at the outset my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) for his work on dentistry . I also thank the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , for her early engagement with colleague on this topic just day into her new role . my constituency office have receive enquiry from almost 200 resident who have be unable to access NHS dentistry service , despite the fact that there be many dentist in our town . the current NHS contract for dentistry stem from labour ' s reform of 2006 , and have increasingly show itself to be lack . the regime of payment base on unit of dental activity have be unfair to dentist from the start , and , due to insufficient commissioning in area of great need , it have be unfair to patient too . last year , a practice base at Firthmoor community centre in Darlington hand back its NHS contract as it be unable to be economically viable while be pay a mere £ 23 . 50 for a UDA . after struggle to recruit a new dentist , the owner of the practice , who also operate in other part of the north - east and be pay almost £ 40 for a UDA in leafy part of Newcastle , take the very sad but entirely understandable decision to close their Darlington branch . no business can recruit and employ staff when the money come in do not cover the operating cost , never mind make a profit . NHS England , which do the commission prior to April 2023 , offer to increase the UDA rate to nearly £ 30 , but frankly , that be too little , too late . when the North East and North Cumbria integrate care board take over responsibility for dentistry in April last year , I be fill with fresh hope that a resolution for the situation in Darlington would be find . I be assure that emergency provision would be expand and additional commissioning would be provide at a high UDA to far expand provision in Darlington . imagine my dismay and disappointment when , in late November , I learn that little , if anything , have be do — literally nothing . there then follow numerous meeting , conversation and communication as I become increasingly angry that I have effectively be mislead and my constituent be still be under - provide for . I be grateful to the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) for kindly highlight my work on this topic as a constituency MP , in contrast to his time prior to his current role , when he mention dentistry not once . our icb do not even have to have a dentist on their board . it have become clear to I that only by our lobbying , push and raise this in the medium will our icb actually turn their attention away from their own internal bureaucracy and focus on the job of provide the service that they have an obligation to commission . I welcome that the Government will bring forward a dental recovery plan , which really can not come soon enough . in the meantime , I urge the Minister to give our icb a boot up the backside and get they to pull their finger out . when thing be as bad as they be , their underspend on dentistry be utterly shocking . while I be on my foot , I have a few suggestion for the Minister . I have share they directly with she before , but it would be good to get they on the record . we need more dental training . will she consider the addition of a dental school to Teesside University , alongside its excellent dental technician training facility ? I welcome that we will oblige our new dentist , whose training come at massive public cost , to spend a period of time provide public service before they go fully private . dentist should be require to publish their fee and charge for NHS , private and insurance - back work , so that patient can make clear and informed choice . we also need to see great provision of mobile dentist visit school , particularly in area of high deprivation . we need to see much more progress on this issue . we need to go far and fast , and I be quite sure that my right hon . friend the Minister be the right person to do just that . I need hardly say that dentistry be not the only part of the national health service that the Conservative Government have allow to fall into crisis while shamelessly seek to shift the blame on to other . however , it be welcome that we have the chance to focus today on dentistry and on the million of people in this country , include many thousand in Westmorland , who be be so badly let down . for community in Westmorland and Lonsdale , the heart of this crisis be a basic difficulty in secure an NHS appointment . many people in our area know that they can not afford to have their tooth or their child ' s tooth check . they feel a crush financial burden , and a burden of guilt , because they can not access an NHS dentist for themselves or their family , and they know that they can not afford to go private . this crisis have very real , very personal , very expensive and very painful consequence for people in our community in Cumbria and nationwide . Healthwatch find that one in 10 people in England have resort to pay for private dental care because they could not find an NHS dentist . however , most people I speak to can not afford to go private , so what do those family do ? well , YouGov find that one in 10 adult have try some form of DIY dentistry , the difficulty of access a dentist force they to resort to medieval practice . this country — proud of our prosperity and proud of our NHS — be in the shameful situation of its people ' s tooth and , most shamefully of all , its child ' s tooth , get bad . in 2022 , the BDA find that one in four five - year - old in my community in Cumbria have tooth decay , and that tooth decay be the no . 1 reason for hospital admission among young people . regular dental appointment be vital for prevent tooth decay , and even more so for child , whose tooth tend to decay more quickly . however , few and few child be able to access those appointment because of the negligence of this Government . in Cumbria , the proportion of child see by a dentist in the NHS each year go from 64 % in 2018 to just 50 % last year , a drop of 14 % in five year . half of our child in our community — from Grasmere to Grange , Appleby to Ambleside , Kendal to Kirkby Stephen and Windermere to Warcop — do not have access to an NHS dentist . that be a disgrace . I have hear at first hand from my constituent about the shocking scale of the difficulty of get access to appointment for child . one attendance officer at one of our primary school write to I early last year after she find that family in her school be go abroad for dental appointment . she say : " Tim , I feel compel to email you to tell you … we have a high number of child who be regularly miss out on education due to be unable to register with a local NHS dentist . a large number of our child have polish , romanian , latvian and ukrainian parent and therefore will find it easy to travel back to their parent ' original home country rather than wait for a local NHS dentist who be accept patient . " wow ! let we be clear : she be say that some child in Cumbria find it easy to get dental treatment travel to a war zone than to access the NHS dental care that their parent have already pay for through their taxis . for adult in Cumbria , the picture be also awful . the number of adult see by a dentist in the past two year be also down by 14 % , to only 36 . 5 % . almost two third of adult in our community in Cumbria can not access the NHS dentist that — as I say — they have already pay for through their taxis . this be not only a crisis , but a colossal act of fraud and an injustice . People who work hard , pay their way , and rightly expect the Government to be competent enough to provide the service they have pay for be be let down , take for a ride , and force into either intense and painful physical suffering or pay again to get the treatment they be entitle to receive from the state . this be more than just a health issue ; it be a moral issue , a fairness issue and a justice issue . a quick search of the NHS website show that the near dental practice to Kendal that be take on NHS patient be in Accrington , an 80 - mile round trip , and that the near NHS practice to Kirkby Stephen be in Newton Aycliffe in County Durham , a round trip of two hour . let we remember that , as other have say , we be also face a cancer care crisis in the UK , and part of the problem be a failure to diagnose cancer early so that they can be treat and cure . dentist play a crucial role in identify oral cancer , but if two third of Cumbria ' s adult be not see an NHS dentist , we can be certain that cancer will be miss . they will therefore be untreatable and people will die unnecessarily . core to our identity as Liberal Democrats be our belief that everyone in the UK should be able to access a dental health check - up on the NHS , with an emphasis on preventative oral health . we would reform the dental contract to ensure that those thing take place , and fund it properly . I be so often tell by our local NHS ICB that , when all be say and do , the Government give they the money for only about half the people in our area to have access to an NHS dentist . outrageously , that mean that the only time they will contract a new NHS provider be when a previous provider have shut its door , such as when the Avondale practice in Grange go private , leave 5 , 000 people in limbo . People with a family of four face a yearly fee of £ 1 , 000 just to stay on that practice ' s book . I have proactively go out to persuade private dentist to accept NHS work , and although I know it be only a stick plaster , I reckon I could find more . however , the ICB will not take those dentist on because this government will not let they . the dentistry crisis be an outrage — an injustice mete out to people and family across our area . it seem to we in Westmorland that the good way we will defeat that injustice be to defeat the Government who be responsible for it . I rise for the 15th time during my time in this place to raise my concern about the state of dentistry in my constituency . on be elect , the first letter I write be about dentistry , and although I fully accept the Government ' s position that thing have get bad follow the pandemic , they be pretty bad in North Devon before . when I move to Devon six and a half year ago , it take I two year to find an NHS dentist , and then I have to travel 45 minute to get there . one of my concern about the statistic use be that they compare dentist per 100 , 000 of population . as a very sparsely populated rural location , we might not look like as much of a dental desert as some other place , but at present the near dentist take NHS patient be over 100 mile away . a constituent contact I before Christmas to say " with regard to the extremely limited dental care in North Devon . my partner , who suffer from mental health issue which limit he from perform daily task and travelling , be in need of dental treatment this weekend . however , after be on hold for almost an hour I be tell that there be no appointment in the whole of North Devon and the near appointment be in Exeter . travel that distance be just not possible for someone who have mental health issue , and due to the nature of his illness , he can not drive and I don ' t either at present . " exeter , which be the near city to my constituency , be over 50 mile away for most North Devon resident . even private practice in North Devon be unable to take on the volume of patient in some part of my constituency . I have parent write weekly to ask what to do when their appointment be cancel because dentist be hand back their NHS contract . and because resident in North Devon be unable to get check - up , by the time they be see they have extensive dental need cost hundred , if not thousand , of pound . call we a dental desert be no help at all . give the structure of dentistry , dentist be not go to want to deal with the oral backlog each unseen mouth potentially hold . I welcome the new dentistry Minister to her role , and thank she for her immediate engagement on this issue . I very much hope that her experience will ensure that the Government ' s plan to far recover and reform NHS dentistry be expedite because , frankly , the good people of North Devon have wait long enough to see a dentist . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way , and I recognise what she be describe in North Devon . a 75 - year - old and his wife who live in Tiverton tell I that they be contact by their dentist , who say that they be not see NHS patient any more . they call a further 20 dental practice and be tell by several receptionist that no NHS appointment be available in Devon at all . do she recognise the experience of my constituent ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . while I recognise some of those concern , I will come on to the response that the Minister have give to my petition in this place . the waiting list for dentistry be reportedly over 100 , 000 in Devon , and there be report of child have all their tooth extract . while that be horrific , we need to encourage child and adult alike to practise good dental hygiene , as school and nursery have more than enough to do to educate their child without also brush their pupil ' tooth every day . when I visit school in my constituency , they raise concern about why dental hygienist with plaque - disclose tablet no long visit school at least to highlight where poor brushing at home might be an issue . when I visit the Marines base in my constituency , they raise the issue of dentistry . on every social media post I put out , whatever topic it be on , someone raise dentist . can the Minister please confirm when we will see a catch - up plan , since the last one apparently get stick at the Treasury ? as I have say before , I understand that money do not grow on tree , but neither do tooth . I have present a petition in this place about dentistry in North Devon , and I thank the Minister for her response , which detail some improvement such as the Access dental helpline in Devon . however , we know that even the post - covid scheme to help dentistry catch up do not reach place that need it most , with the majority of the fund not actually be spend on dentistry . I have listen to my ICB ' s plan for catch up , but I be not sure that anything I have hear fully reflect the issue around rurality and dentistry . deliver most healthcare solution in a rural environment be different from deliver they in an urban one : in rural constituency , the closure of one dentist can leave patient travel an additional 50 mile . as I have explain , pop to exeter for treatment be not an option for many , and far too many of our health treatment involve that 120 - mile round trip . we need the dentist to come to we , not we to the dentist , please . I warmly welcome the step that this Government be take to train more dentist , but as even the Prime Minister concede when he speak to local press on his recent trip to the North Devon District Hospital , those step will not help in the short term . the opposition clearly have no plan in this area , and they have very little grasp of what rural life be like , give that most Opposition Members represent urban seat . I be delighted to hear the Secretary of State commit to fairness in rural and coastal area , but I ask the Minister to see whether it be possible to get some dentist on to bus and into rural area , and especially into our school . over 50 % of child in North Devon have never see a dentist . dentist come to see our fisherman ; why can we not similarly arrange for they to see our servicemen ' s family , our schoolchildren , and those who simply can not travel to an NHS dentist or afford to see one locally ? I do fear that the magnitude of the issue be not well understand by those live in London . People who call an NHS dentist in London will likely be see almost immediately , and probably quick than someone back home would have their phone call answer . ideally , we would have regular dentist check - up prior to get toothache , but as even the bard say , " there be never yet philosopher that could endure the toothache patiently " . my patience and that of my constituent be run thin with the ongoing delay in hear that the dentist will " see you now " . in a landscape where health condition have become a barrier to opportunity , dental health have unfortunately join this grow list . the state of NHS dentistry after 13 year of Conservative Government be nothing short of a national tragedy . however , I rise not just to address this dire state of affair , but to give hope that there be a path towards real solution and lasting change — a path that can only be available under a future Labour Government . the national survey by the NHS Business Services Authority and the British Dental Association evidence the stark reality of our dental health crisis . child in part of England endure wait of up to 18 month for dental procedure and our dental workforce have fall to the low level since 2013 , with morale at an all - time low . in Hull and the east riding , the situation be even more alarming , with over half of adult in Hull not have attend a dentist ' s for two or more year , which be double the number in 2015 . my Facebook post ask people to share their experience get nearly 300 comment , mostly on the same issue : the limited access to dentistry for child and adult ; long waiting period for critical intervention , such as tooth extraction , lead to prolonged pain and suffering for those in need ; the inadequate availability of emergency care that force individual , as have be hear in this debate , to resort to DIY dentistry and unnecessary visit to A & E ; and the impact on child ' s health , with alarm wait time for crucial procedure under general anaesthetic . Angie tell tell I about problem with special educational need dentist . she say that they " have have to start outsource to other dentist in and around Hull who be willing to work with those with SEN . still wait on an appointment for my son to be see by the dentist we choose over 6 month and he ' s suppose to be see every 6 month " . Sarah tell I : " I need a dentist during 2021 due to have chemotherapy … so I go to my local NHS dentist which I have be with for year ! . . . they have strike we off with no notice … so I end up ring over 40 dentist with no response other than a waiting list . 2 year later after treatment I go private , in debt of over 2 , 000 pound and have lose 1 tooth . I ' m lucky to be back to ok health . " Stephen tell I : " yeah our dentist close at East Hull . . . and it ' s take I 2 year to try and get my kid a dentist . I actually call 37 dental surgery and even have to try York , Leeds , Scarborough , Lincoln . my polish dentist could not resit the english dental exam after we come out of the EU in time due to Covid delay so she go back to Poland . such a shame , she be an amazing dentist . . . she be fully qualified but there be an exam you have to resit … it be all delay at the time so I think we lose quite a lot because of that . " despite get mould for a new veneer for a tooth , he have " to superglue an Amazon £ 9 tooth on my front tooth for over a year " . locally , people be try to make a difference , and I pay tribute to Chris Groombridge and the Teeth Team charity , which go out talk to child — nursery age and primary age child — about oral health and hygiene . however , we need to train more dentist , and we need to do more to keep the dentist we already have . I really welcome the reform of the dental contract . on dentist training , I present a petition call for a Hull York dental school base on the Hull York Medical School that the Labour Government set up in 2003 . unfortunately , the Government reject that idea . however , there have be positive conversation with the integrate care board about a centre for dental development be set up in Hull , so some dentist could be train in the city , albeit not in the dental school that we would like to see . if that do happen , and I do hope it do , we will still be wait five year for dentist to be train . the emergency be here and now . that be why I so wholeheartedly support labour ' s plan to get 700 , 000 more urgent appointment annually , reform the dental contract to keep the nhs dentist we have , introduce supervise toothbrushing as a strong preventative measure , and funding improvement . the plan will cost money of course , but it will be fund , as we have explain , by abolish the non - dom tax status , because people in Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle need healthcare more than the ultra - wealthy need a tax break . under the Conservatives , NHS dentistry face a slow demise , with dentist leave vast area as dental desert . unlike the Tories , the Labour party believe in accessible healthcare for all . we pledge immediate action for those in urgent need and long - term reform to restore NHS dentistry for everyone . the motion I be vote for today be not merely a formality ; it be a reflection of the urgency and gravity of the situation . this government ' s legacy be one of stagnant growth , soar price and a crumble public service . it be a legacy of failure , and it be time for the positive change that only a future Labour Government can bring . it be music to my ear when my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) announce that a Labour Government will introduce 700 , 000 extra appointment each year , get more dentist into the community such as mine that need they the most and ensure that everybody who need an NHS dentist can get one , because I be feed up with the state of NHS dentistry . I be feed up that my constituent can not get an appointment , feed up that people in Durham have resort to DIY dentistry and feed up that Tory government have sit on their hand for over 13 year . to be clear , NHS dentist be not to blame for the crisis . we know they be try their good . it be Ministers on the Benches opposite who be to blame , and they can not say they have not be tell . I have raise this important issue for the last two year and other member have do so for so much long . last May , I raise , as a point of order , that the Prime Minister may have make several inaccurate statement regard the number of NHS dentist . for instance , in Prime Minister ' s question on 3 May , he state that " there be more than 500 more dentist work in the NHS this year than last year . " — [ Official Report , 3 May 2023 ; Vol . 732 , c . 111 . ] however , a freedom of information request obtain by the British Dental Association throw the Prime Minister ' s comment into doubt . accord to the FOI response , the number of dentist be in fact down by 695 compare with the previous year , and there be few dentist undertake nhs work than before the pandemic , bring the workforce down to level not see since 2012 - 13 . unsurprisingly , the Government do not correct the record , and that say it all . everyone know that NHS dentistry be in crisis — our constituent tell we regularly — but the Government continue with their " it ' s all fine " attempt at message discipline . why do they not just accept that vast area of our country be now describe as dental desert and do something about it ? I hope that the Chancellor would have offer something — just anything — for NHS dentistry in the autumn statement , but dentistry be not mention in the Chancellor ' s speech or the policy report . not a penny be put forward , even though the Government announce a recovery plan in April last year . that recovery plan , as we have hear , still have not be publish . even bad , perhaps , be the sinister announcement , confirm in the answer to a write question I table in November , that the Government would withdraw free dental care for the long - term sick . last year , I lead an Adjournment debate on one such dental desert — my constituency , City of Durham — and I want to repeat what my constituent share with I so that minister know what people be go through . one constituent tell I that they have move to Durham four and a half year ago , but could not find an NHS dentist . they be tell that , after a kidney transplant , it be vital they have regular dental check - up to monitor their health , but then they break their tooth and could not afford to fix it . another constituent tell I she have to borrow money to afford a private appointment ; after become pregnant , the exemption she get from dental charge be worthless because there be no appointment available . a young girl from my constituency trip over and shatter her tooth , and her family could not find a dentist to help she . it be only after I report the case on social medium that a local dentist kindly offer their assistance . another be unable to find an NHS dental appointment , so out of frustration decide to go private . follow that , they be diagnose with oral cancer . why be this happen ? a visit to a dental practice in my constituency provide some answer . the practice have just one dentist work two day a week see NHS patient and it have 10 , 000 patient on its book . in the north - east , almost 97 % of surgery be not accept new adult patient . it do not take a genius to work out why my constituent can not see a dentist . the situation nationally be diabolical . rotten tooth be the no . 1 reason why child age between six and 10 be admit to hospital , with an average of 169 child undergo tooth extraction every work day . it be clear that a preventive approach to healthcare have erode in Britain . fundamentally , this be because of austerity . for over 13 year , the Government have hollow out our welfare state . the hon . Lady and I share the same integrate care board . if this be to do with austerity , why have she not engage with our local ICB to ask it about the underspend and the provision in her constituency ? I do speak to the ICB whenever I need to and it have tell I , as I be about to say , that our welfare state , of which the NHS be a part , have be hollow out . the system be wrong . austerity have cause these problem : it be not the pandemic ; it happen many year before then . supporter of austerity often say they do not want to burden future generation with debt , but austerity and preventive healthcare be incompatible ; we can not have both . the healthcare problem this Government have cause our constituent — issue that could have be prevent with funding and investment — will now be more expensive to resolve down the line . conservative Members have saddle future generation with poor health , poor opportunity and ultimately a poor country , and it be time for they to go . it be an honour to follow my good friend my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) . I also raise an issue relate to the integrate care board , which may be of interest . I be sure you be far too young , Madam Deputy Speaker , to remember the school dentistry service but some of we of more senior year will recall the annual visit from the school dentist . each year , the dentist and dental nurse would attend school assembly , class after class would line up , and every child would have their tooth inspect . at home time , anyone require further treatment would receive the dread letter ask parent to make a follow - up appointment . this be a simple , efficient , and productive process . the system allow thousand of child to receive annual dental check - up . the day be also an opportunity for child to be educate on the importance of dental hygiene — the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) mention the special tablet that highlight plaque on tooth — and how to avoid the dread follow - up letter the follow year . I recently ask the integrate care board about reintroduce this scheme , but despite the NHS North East and North Cumbria integrate care board take over responsibility for commission dental service , it pass the buck on this question to the local authority , state in its reply : " commission responsibility for dental public health fall under the remit of Public Health , which be host by the Local Authority . as such , the ICB be unable to comment on the school dental screening programme and this would need to be raise directly with Durham County Council . " this silo mentality be a disgrace . I will mention some statistic on opportunity cost in a moment . although annual school screening would not necessarily be popular with the child , it would ensure they be all see by a dentist , and it would free up space in dental practice . currently , our child be pay the price . datum from NHS Digital show that 44 % of child have not receive an annual check - up with an NHS dentist . I look on the NHS " find a dentist " website today and there be not a single dentist accept child age 17 or under in my Easington constituency . minister should be ashamed that after they have be in power for 14 year , NHS dentistry be catastrophically fail our child . I say to my constituent watch this debate that there be dentist accept child in neighbouring constituency — in Wheatley Hill , Easington Lane and Houghton - le - Spring . however , those dependent on public transport will find access these service almost impossible due to the appalling state and unreliability of our bus service . that be another story and another catastrophic failure of Tory neglect and mismanagement . the situation for adult patient in Easington be also dire . there be no dental practice accept adult patient within a 10 - mile radius of my constituency . within a 15 - mile radius , there be only three . again , that be completely inaccessible for those who be dependent on our unreliable and infrequent local bus service . the Prime Minister say he be proud of his record on dentistry and have boast that there be now more nhs dentist across the UK , but he must inhabit a parallel universe . in the real world , datum show that there be 24 , 151 dentist perform nhs work in 2022 - 23 — more than 500 down on pre - pandemic level . moreover , as colleague have point out , the headcount do not show the level of NHS treatment , because a dentist work in the private sector and do a single nhs check - up in a year count just the same as a full - time NHS dentist . there be some scary statistic . one in 10 people have attempt their own dental work , with Healthwatch , the patient ' voice , report patient pull their own tooth out with plier . that might seem ridiculous but my mother be 87 and very frail , and she do this out of desperation . it be appalling . here be another terrible statistic — every day be a school day , Minister : tooth decay be the most common reason for hospital admission for child age between six and 10 . oral cancer be one of the fast rise type of cancer and kill more people than car accident in the United Kingdom . limited access to dental service mean that few oral cancer case will be detect early , which will lower the survival rate and far widen health inequality . it be time for the Government to get control of this problem and to deliver for the british public , who be be let down time and again by the dysfunction at the heart of the conservative party . it be clear that under this Government our NHS dentistry be in crisis . across Lewisham East a number of dental surgery be no long accept new adult patient . recent Healthwatch polling show that one in 10 people in England be pay for private dental treatment because they can not find an NHS dentist , yet many other can not afford to do this and instead be suffer . the Government promise to publish their dental recovery plan by the summer of 2023 ; it be now 2024 and the Government still do not have a plan . I will focus my remark on a specific issue face dental patient , as well as practitioner , that be make this crisis even bad . a constituent of mine contact I about her father who be drive to suicide after more than a decade of seek compensation for dental work that leave he in severe agony . despite be award a record compensation sum , he never receive a penny . the dentist who carry out the surgery be register with the General Dental Council , which require all dentist , both NHS and private , to have professional indemnity to be a member . however , it turn out that the dentist do not have full cover . instead , she be cover only via her membership of the Dental Defence Union . such organisation be not insurance company but offer professional indemnity on a discretionary basis against the risk of dental neglect claim and professional conduct proceeding . that mean that successful compensation claim by patient be not guarantee to be pay out . the General Dental Council currently accept that as appropriate , but in my view it be not , and neither be it in my constituent ' s view , especially when it lead to such a horrific experience for her late father . the Paterson inquiry recommend that the Government should , as a matter of urgency , reform the current regulation of indemnity product for healthcare professional . in 2018 , the Government launch a consultation on indemnity cover for healthcare professional include dentist , but little progress have come from it , despite the majority of stakeholder argue against discretionary indemnity . I have write to the Secretary of State highlight call for the Government to outlaw discretionary indemnity option for what be consider appropriate cover for practise dentist , but I be yet to see a response . therefore , I would welcome it if the Minister meet I and my constituent to discuss this matter and the response to the consultation . I be sure we all know that the Horizon scandal be a terrifying injustice , but in its own way the situation I be speak about be also a scandal . through no fault of their own , people be be deny huge amount of compensation that they be legally entitle to . there be nothing in place to stop what be happen to my constituent ' s father happen to many more people — I hope that it do not , but that be the reality . the Government have a duty to address safeguarding for patient and dentist . to exacerbate the problem , most patient and professional do not know that their discretionary indemnity arrangement could still leave they out of pocket . when will the Government bring about change , or be they just incapable ? in my constituency , 11 dentist have update their datum . seven be not accept adult and nine be not accept anyone , but the reality be that if I phone around , I would find that none of they on that list be accept people . the situation be so bad in Sussex that the ICB have take matter into its own hand , ignore the NHS portal , which it say do not work , and produce a list every month of dentist that will do drop - in . for the whole of Sussex , we have two in Hastings — hopefully soon to be Labour , with our fantastic candidate Helena there — two in Hove and one in Brighton Pavilion . there be none in worthe — worthe West and East Worthing and Shoreham be hopefully soon to get Labour mp — or in Crawley , Bexhill and Battle , Lewes , Eastbourne , Mid Sussex or Chichester , all of which be marginal constituency in the next election . I would have think the Government would be more on it to ensure that constituency that they be about to lose have dentist that patient can see , but they be not . the ICB say that it can not find dentist to volunteer — that be what they do . all the ICB can do be beg and plead with dentist to voluntarily take extra patient , because the contract do not work . also , many dentist say that they can not update the online system because other dentist do not update it , so if they do , they be flood and all their place get take . so dentist do not update the system properly . when ask why they do not , they also say that the system do not provide enough granularity . they can say whether they accept child and adult — yes or no — but they can not say whether they take local people or prioritise other requirement . dentist prefer to operate a system in which patient have to ring around . that be no good for my constituent Carolynn Bain , who ring around all the list in Worthing and Eastbourne , and in the end have to go to London for her dental treatment . she be tell that dentist do not want to update the system because they be afraid of the effect . when I have ask the CCB — sorry , the ICB ; they change the name of these darn thing so often that no one can remember — it say that that inhibit the information to constituent . we need a system , like we have for doctor , of proper planning in catchment area . we need the ICB to be able to say , " this be the population in this area . this be what be need . " just like with doctor , patient should be able to choose dentist out of area or dentist they have a connection with , perhaps because they work in an area but do not live there . there need to be proper planning , and there be none at the moment . that be why Labour ' s plan for more urgent appointment and well and more NHS training be welcome . I hope the Government will also look at dental school . at the moment there be no dental school in Sussex , Hampshire , Surrey or Kent — none in the south - east . there be London dental school . that make a huge difference to the ability to train and recruit dentist , because many will end up stay in the area in which they have train . I urge the Minister to look at establish a new dental school in the south - east — we would love to have it in Brighton , but Hastings be also a good option . our Hastings candidate will be push very hard for that . after the closure of the University of Brighton in Hastings , there be a need for a new university or medical school there , and that would be very welcome . we have hear a lot of pledge from the Government to increase the number of dental hygienist , but this be a huge smokescreen . under the nhs , patient can only access a dental hygienist if they have be refer by a dentist . if they go private , they can pay to go directly . actually , we should encourage people to go to directly to dental hygienist once a year , and once a year to a dentist . there be no need for a six - monthly check - up with a dentist if a patient also go to a hygienist . but at the moment , patient can not go to a hygienist unless they be refer as a tier 2 form of treatment , so they can not do it on the initial check - up . that need to change to make dental hygienist relevant ; otherwise , the Government be talk about recruit into the private sector a load of dental hygienist no NHS patient will be able to see . the same go for the list system . it be absolute madness that if a patient have not see a dentist for six month or a year , they can be throw off the dentist ' s list . that would never happen with a doctor . we need to change the funding model so that dentist be encourage to keep patient on their list if they have not see they . they should get a bonus for see they , and some reward for preventive treatment . that preventive treatment might not always involve see a patient , but may involve educational resource or send they to a hygienist , with the hygienist report that no further action be need . all those thing could be do . the start of an education and preventive approach should be in our school . that be why Labour be pledge to take action . that be why this country have be so let down by the Government . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in today ' s debate on such an important topic . last year , I launch my " Save Wakefield ' s Smiles " campaign to highlight the horrifying state of dentistry access across my constituency . I have have an avalanche of constituent contact I to share their heartbreaking experience of try to get an appointment in Wakefield . with permission , I will briefly share two of those testimonial with the House . Anne be a 71 - year - old pensioner entitle to free dental treatment , and she have be try to get a dentist appointment for five year . she tell I that she feel let down by this country . she say that she have work all her life since she be 15 and pay into the system for her entire career , and now have to decide whether to heat her home or get her tooth see to . Steve say he have be wait two year for an NHS dentist because he can not afford the estimate £ 5 , 000 it would cost to fix his tooth privately . he say that the anguish he have experience while waiting have severely impact his mental health . Steve tell I : " I barely leave the house . I be too scared to change job because I worry no one want to hire someone in desperate need of healthcare . " like Anne , Steve feel frustrated . he say that he do not think it be too much to ask to receive the care he pay his contribution towards . those be a handful of case from my constituency , but I know that up and down the country , the story be the same . nine out of 10 clinic in England do not have the capacity to take on new patient . million of our constituent simply can not get an appointment , and this Tory Government have fail every single one of they . perhaps most shockingly of all , one in 10 of our constituent now feel that they have no choice but to resort to their own DIY dentistry . what kind of country have we become ? what sort of grim dickensian dystopia have this shambolic Tory Government preside over , where people be pull out their own tooth with plier over a sink ? colleague will recall , I hope , my first ever question in Prime Minister ' s question last year . I press the Prime Minister on the national dental emergency . I look he in the eye and tell he how 25 % of five - year - old in Wakefield already have visible tooth decay . I tell he how less than half of Wakefield ' s child manage to get an NHS dentist appointment in 2022 , and I tell he how a constituent of mine have desperately telephone every single dentist in Wakefield to find an appointment while his daughter cry in pain from her tooth , black with decay . from the Prime Minister ' s reply and follow - up letter to my question , you would honestly think he be live on a different planet . he boast of the funding he be put into NHS dentistry , boast of the number of NHS dentist and boast that he have make reform to the NHS dental contract . in fact , the British Dental Association have state that the Prime Minister ' s boastful claim may have be inaccurate . I fear he may have inadvertently mislead the House as a result . indeed , the British Dental Association have be clear that it believe the Prime Minister " offer a grotesque misinterpretation " of his work to address the crisis . the Prime Minister may have promise a dentistry recovery plan last year , but month later nothing have be publish and he have nothing to show for it . the Prime Minister may have admit last week that he be run scared of a May election , but we on the Opposition Benches could not be more ready to take our dentistry rescue plan to the british people . labour will address the immediate crisis head - on by provide 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment and recruit new dentist to the area most in need . to treat the long - term challenge , Labour will reform the dentistry contract , which be no long fit for purpose in its current form . with a vital focus on prevention , Labour will introduce supervised toothbrushing in primary school . unlike Government Members , who have a soft spot for announce economy - crash , uncosted policy under the previous Prime Minister , Labour have a dentistry rescue plan that would be fully fund by abolish the non - dom tax status . we have an incredible , ambitious plan ready to go from day one of a desperately need Labour Government . the Prime Minister may be scared of an election , but when I speak to my constituent and hear how badly we need to fix our public service , I know where I stand — bring it on . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) , who make a superb speech . I have childhood memory of much old relative who grow up before the NHS be create have no tooth leave at all — they have have they all extract because it be cheap . I never think that might start to happen again , but I fear that in some case we be get far too close to it with the current situation in our dental service . as many hon . and right hon . member have point out in today ' s debate , this be not only serious for oral health but have other health connotation . new medical insight link oral hygiene with heart and lung health . if we neglect oral hygiene to the extent that we be — we have hear about that in the debate — that will have huge implication for the health of future generation . as Labour ' s motion set out , NHS dentistry be in crisis and be approach break point , if it have not already pass it . the people of the UK be pay the price , and the poor be pay a much heavy price . the Nuffield Trust say that NHS dentistry " be at its most perilous point in its 75 - year history . " in Wallasey , my constituent be live with the reality of that day to day . as we have hear , a seven - year - old be more likely to be hospitalise for rot tooth than for any other medical issue . that be an astonishing statistic . many people — include my constituent — be grow up in place where they simply can not get access to dental care . in Wallasey , only two dental surgery will take a child as a new patient , and not a single one be take any new adult patient on to its book . in Wallasey , we have see people kick off exist list without notice . that happen often during the pandemic , with the excuse that they have not visit the dentist in two year — they could not , as the dentist be close because of the pandemic — and they can not get access to another provider . there be care home in my constituency where there be no access to dental treatment for those live in they . I have have email after email from constituent write to I in despair , disbelief and often pain , all unable to get an appointment . nhs worker , an expectant mother , a retired firefighter , concerned parent and disabled people with decline health be all unable to see a dentist because of the terrible 14 year of Tory neglect . last summer , Sarah write to I when she be at her wit ' end . she have move into my constituency from Liverpool a few year ago with her partner , please to be close to family as they prepare to welcome a baby . despite their home be close to four different dentist , Sarah be unable to register with any surgery . each one be not accept new patient . none even have a waiting list that she could join . she have now lose one molar and break three . she have try and fail to get an emergency appointment numerous time , and she have have to call 111 in desperation . she be in constant pain and still have no access . her little boy , who be now four year old , have never see a dentist , despite his parent ' good effort . dentist , too , be outraged . last year , Annette , a local dentist who have a superb surgery and have work for the NHS her whole life , write to I in total despair . her surgery have be work overtime to see NHS patient and to try to meet the unmet need — it have even overperforme on its target to get the NHS to care for local people who desperately need it . she be do that , but it get to the stage where her surgery be not be pay for NHS work due to error and unexplained hold - up in money . just before Christmas , she say : " at the end of next year I will have be a dentist for 50 year , always work on the NHS . I don ' t think I have ever know it in such a bad state , nor for the Government to have so little care of its state . " she be over - work , under - compensate , exhausted and unable to keep up with demand , and she be not be pay for the work that she be do . it be a terrible state of affair . we see a picture of underspent ICB dental budget and massive unmet need . it be obvious that those thing demonstrate a system that simply be not work . the Government know about this as well as we do and announce last April that there be go to be a plan , but we still have not see one . if they care , where be their sense of urgency ? they can not say that our plan to put NHS dentistry in working order will not work when they will not bring forward their own plan . they must get on with it now . my wallasey constituent be in pain , and I expect it to be alleviate . Most of we get two set of tooth in our lifetime . we learn with our milk tooth how to take care of they , and then , as adult , we must take care of the tooth that should see we through to the end of our day . often overlook , sadly , be that it be get hard and hard to take care of our tooth . in my constituency , seven dental surgery respond to a survey and reveal that five be not accept any new adult patient . in 2022 , the Local Government Association find that Tamworth be one of the most difficult place in the country to register for a dentist , with a striking ratio of 0 . 065 dentist per 1 , 000 people . Tamworth be grow . many new house be be build in the constituency , and it be consistently raise with I that there be no service to match the growth in population . that refer not only to school and GP surgery , but to NHS dentistry . tamworth ' s population have grow by nearly 3 % between 2011 and 2021 . we also know that tooth decay be now the most common reason that child age between the age of six and 10 be admit to hospital . it be therefore no surprise that the Health and Social Care Committee report in 2023 brand the current contract " not fit for purpose " and describe the state of the service as " unacceptable in the 21st century " . the current contract prioritise Government aim over patient care . the Government also do not fundamentally reform the contract when advise to by the Health and Social Care Committee , so patient be leave with inadequate provision and a lottery in access to care . last year , over 12 million people be unable to access dental care . that be more than one in four adult in England and three time as many as before the pandemic . in time of crisis , more and more people be pick up the plier and turn to do - it - yourself dentistry , with a poll from YouGov indicate that one in 10 adult attempt some form of the dangerous practice last year . free healthcare at the point of access be a cornerstone of this country pioneer by a Labour Government , yet recent Healthwatch polling show that one in 10 people in England pay for private dental treatment in the last 12 month because they could not find an NHS dentist . this be have adverse effect on the detection of oral cancer . I campaign against the privatisation of cancer care service in Staffordshire and I be dismay that one of the detection and diagnosis avenue be become privatise by stealth . million who can not afford to go down that route be leave without the help they need . I share concern raise by my colleague that the Government be roll out a pilot in Cornwall in which only child and the most vulnerable patient will be eligible for nhs treatment . the Government have be ignore all the symptom of decay , and now NHS dentistry be in need of a root canal . it be not enough to wait for the tooth fairy to fix these problem . I support my Labour colleague in call for urgent reform . like a cavity , we must repair the damage cause by this Government . we need labour ' s plan to create 700 , 000 more appointment a year . we need target recruitment scheme to fill the voids of decay leave by a lack of strategy . we need reform to the dental contract . it be time to rescue NHS dentistry from this crisis , and get patient see on time and smile again . as a man with a great fondness and enthusiasm for Irn - Bru and a habit of throw my body on the line on the football pitch to make up for a lack of skill , it be fair to say that over the year I have have to rely quite a few time on fantastic NHS dental care . but , like for far too many of my constituent , those positive past experience of NHS dentistry be exactly that — a thing of the past . we have all hear today story of constituent who have struggle to access dentist care when they need it and struggle to pay for private care in the absence of NHS provision in their area . whether they have be strike off as a patient over time or their NHS practice have go completely private , our constituent be repeatedly pay the price for the continue failure to stop the rot in dentist provision . just in the last week , I have have constituent contact I to express their frustration and challenge in access routine dental appointment , with NHS dentist tell they they can only have emergency care . People be force to wait for thing to get bad just so they can afford to be see . another tell I about the incredible cost they be now have to pay to drive to see an NHS dentist , have be push far and far afield as more and more practice near they have withdraw eligibility . this should not be acceptable , but shamefully it be far too common . last year nearly 800 people across Bedfordshire be admit to accident and emergency unit for tooth - relate reason . in the year before , 165 child in central Bedfordshire present at hospital require a tooth extraction : 165 young people have to go to hospital to receive treatment for condition that should have be pick up month early . across the country , nearly 5 million people be tell when they last inquire that no appointment be available , either because the practice be not take more patient or because it be fully book . sadly , under the present Government this situation have become endemic , and what be so heartbreaking be that it be not a new issue . for some time , member on both side of the House have be sound the alarm bell , but rather than work with professional to bring about the change that be need , the Government have ignore they and just tweak around the edge . the effect have be the continue decay of dental provision throughout the country . we be nearly a year on from the promise of a dental recovery plan which be yet to be publish , but our NHS dentist need immediate support to alleviate the pressure they be face and the pain their patient be suffer . shamefully , as we have already hear today , integrate care board throughout the country — include mine — be struggle to make use of the money available to they because of the challenge pose by the current funding and contract structure for bring dentist into the NHS fold . that can not be acceptable to anyone in the Chamber who recognise the existence of a crisis that require emergency action to put it right , and certainly require a plan that involve a fix date rather than some unspecified point in the future . we need a Government who will finally prioritise this issue , take the necessary action to ensure that dentist be available to those who need they , and return the service to a well footing for all our constituent . we need incentive for new dentist to work in area where there be the great need , we need 700 , 000 more urgent appointment for patient require , for instance , filling and root canal treatment , and yes — we need supervise toothbrushing in school for three to five - year - old to target the root of some of these challenge . if conservative member have a problem with that , I dread to think what they will make of some of the thing that be already happen in school which be now teach cooking , physical education and hygiene . all those subject play an important part in our school system . when we be face such a clear issue as the current state of dental care for young people , it be shocking to think that we could sit on our hand and not do our bit to try and support they . as well as all that , we need the fundamental reform of the NHS dentist ' contract that will put the service back on to a good footing . together , Labour Members have a plan to put dentistry back on track , but I hope all member will agree that my constituent have already have to wait long enough just to have an MP who want to do this job . as the Government drag out and drag out the date of the next general election , my constituent should not be have to wait for an election to see national change on this issue . please , let we stop push that strategy far and far away . let we stop turn to infighting and be obsess with who our next leader will be , and agree together today to put something right . labour have a plan to get NHS dentistry back on track , and I hope that member in all part of the House will back it today . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate , because inability to gain access to an NHS dentist be an issue plague my constituent . in 2024 Tory Britain , the opening of additional NHS dentistry practice be national news , with report of people queue on high street just for the chance to be see by a dentist . this be a Britain where a call to an NHS dentist to inquire about register as a new patient be meet with laughter down the phone . that be not hyperbole or hearsay : it be what I hear when I try to register my 88 - year - old mother and myself with a new NHS dentist . my dad do not need one : he have his tooth take out for his 21st birthday , because — my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) make this point — it be cheap and easy . it be shocking that we seem to be back in that situation today . in 2024 , it be easy to get your hand on Taylor Swift ticket than to get an NHS dental appointment . for the benefit of the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , who be no long in her place , my constituency be a rural one , and it be a beauty . however , for many of my constituent , live in a rural constituency make access vital service nothing short of stress - induce . the presence of the new Labour Members , my hon . friend the Members for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) and for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) , would point to the idea that people in rural community do believe that Labour have get a grip on what rural community need ; and our colleague the candidate in Hexham , Joe Morris , and the candidate in Carlisle , Julie Minns , be also tell I that their local people , and hopefully future constituent , believe that Labour have a grip on what be need in rural community . when service be not available in Burscough , in my constituency , it be not as simple as phone the next practice down the road , or the one just over from that . it mean travel to Skelmersdale , to Southport , to Liverpool . one of my constituent have contact every practice in our constituency and beyond , from Ormskirk to Blackpool , and be unable to register anywhere as an NHS patient — and Blackpool be 50 mile away , a four - hour round trip by public transport . another parent in my constituency have be unable to register either of their child , both of whom have additional need , with an NHS practice . another recent arrival to Skem can not register any of his family member as an NHS patient . I take up his case with the ICB — I be sure that the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , who be still in his place , would approve . the ICB tell I the shocking truth that Government funding of NHS dentistry be only sufficient to enable around 50 % of the population to access routine dental care . so where be the funding for the other half ? what be the other 50 % of our constituent mean to do ? the hon . Lady be obviously in a different ICB area from mine and I be not privy to the detail in respect of her ICB ' s underspend , but it would be wonderful to know whether her ICB do in fact have an underspend . I thank the hon . gentleman for lead up conveniently to my next point . the issue be that the ICB be actually bring back more money than ever before from our dentist , and the local NHS dentist in Burscough be tell I that that be because they can not recruit dentist or hygienist or other dental professional in order to meet their target . they would love to do it ; they can not . the hon . member for Darlington also talk about choice , but it be no choice when the only choice be private or nowt — and that be what my constituent be look at . if only the problem stop at dentistry . the inability to access a dentist and regular check - up lead to people have to visit their gp for knock - on health issue , or they be in so much pain that they be force to end up at an already stretch A & E . under this Government , the state of NHS dentistry service have end up as dismal . a member of the public who contact Healthwatch Lancashire recently , report that they be in so much pain that they be feel suicidal . the public know that they can not trust the Tories with NHS dentistry , and the alternative with Labour be clear . prevention be by far the most effective way to improve patient outcome across the NHS , and there be no well way to prevent than to educate . we have hear that a Labour Government will introduce supervised toothbrushing in school for three to five - year - old , give child the good chance to avoid tooth decay altogether ; 700 , 000 more urgent appointment for the most serious treatment such as filling and root canal ; and will incentivise dentist to work in area where they be need most . that be music to the ear of resident in rural area such as mine . even well than that , it be all pay for , by ensure that the people who make Britain their home pay their taxis here , abolish the non - dom tax status once and for all . Toothache be nothing compare with the hurt of another five year of this Government ' s inaction on dentistry . it be time they call a general election to make way for a Government with a plan to fix our nation ' s tooth . I be afraid that I have to reduce the time limit to five minute for the last four speaker , so that we get the Division as close to half - past 4 as possible . the British Dental Association recently say that NHS dentistry be face access problem " on an unprecedented scale " . those of we who live in rural area such as Somerton and Frome will recognise the cavity of dental provision across rural Somerset . there simply be not enough dentist , as there be only one dentist deliver NHS service for every 1 , 773 people . I have be in touch with dental surgery across my constituency and none could provide , nor could they tell I of any NHS dentist in the area who be take on new adult patient . dentist can not signpost patient to an alternative service because they simply do not exist , cause resident anxiety and frustration . this Conservative Government have recognise that our NHS dental service be rot , but they do not know how to fix they . they be the one who have underfunde our service and fail to reform NHS dental contract . the Government pledge to create an NHS dentistry recovery plan back in April 2023 , but it have not yet be publish . and while they delay and allow problem to fester , my constituent in Somerton and Frome be suffer in dental agony . a constituent get in touch with I recently . they be 60 year old , and they work hard in their community . however , they have not be able to see a dentist for year . they tell I that they feel hopeless . they be in constant pain and no long have the confidence to smile , to socialise , to work or even to go shop . they be leave isolate by this lack of provision and , unfortunately , it be become way too common , especially in rural area . the shortage of dentist be a major issue that limit access to oral healthcare , especially for elderly resident who be at high risk of dental decay and social isolation . there be specific challenge to rural dentistry provision , recruitment and retention . these need to be recognise because gap in provision lead to gap in tooth . this issue be prevalent in South Cambridgeshire , where there be a 100 % refusal rate for new NHS dental patient . the lack of dental provision in rural area be exacerbate by the fact that the east of England be one of the few region of the country with no dental school to train new dentist . I specifically want to see policy that address the lack of dentist in rural area . our community be spread across a large geographical area , and if the one remain dental surgery in a town such as Somerton or Castle Cary in my constituency can not take on new patient , resident be face with major obstacle to access a dentist . I want to see mobile dentistry hub establish to cater for rural community that do not have dental provision . the Liberal Democrats be clear that we require reform to NHS dental service contract to provide an incentive for dentist to continue to provide these service , and to ensure they be able to take on new patient . a more holistic approach to dental service be need , one that emphasise preventive care and that understand that dental health be intrinsically link to general health . it be possible to improve access to dental health in rural community and to bridge the gap to dental care , but we must provide dentist with the respect and funding they need and deserve . before I begin my remark , let I just say how disheartened I be to see the Government Benches desert in this crucial debate on the state of NHS dentistry ; nowhere could the picture of the dereliction of duty that the Government have show to our NHS dentistry be make clear . however , it be a pleasure to join so many Labour colleague to speak in favour of the Leader of the Opposition ' s motion on dentistry , a part of our healthcare system that be in rapid decline and that have be leave to rot by the absent leadership of those on the conservative Benches — they be there until very recently . the number of active nhs dentist in England be at its low in a decade . in my maiden speech , I mention that one of my constituent , too , have resort to pull out one of her daughter ' s tooth because dental provision be so poor in my constituency . another constituent , a veteran , have be leave without a dentist because armed force personnel be remove from their home dentist upon join up and can not find a practice that will let they register when they return . how do the Government find it acceptable that people who take the bold and brave decision to serve our country be leave abandon by an NHS dental system that be suppose to be there for they ? it have be document that our country be now plague with dental desert . accord to a report publish last year by the Association of Dental Groups , only a third of adult and less than half of english child have access to an NHS dentist . some 90 % of dental practice no long accept NHS patient , leave 4 million people without access to NHS dental care . in Selby and Ainsty , we have be leave with just nine dental practice offer NHS service ; we have just nine for a vast rural constituency that stretch from Doncaster in the south to Harrogate in the north , and suffer fundamentally with issue such as a lack of public transport in our rural area — it be simply not good enough . we do not get into this situation overnight ; we have have 13 year — almost 14 now — of mismanagement by the Conservative party , which have show a complete dereliction of its duty to protect the health of the british people . the Government ' s chronic underfunding of dental practice , with funding cut by a third in the past decade , have mean that patient be be fail on an unprecedented scale . the Government and the Minister have be quick to blame the dental contract , as well as the covid - 19 pandemic , for the crisis that dentistry face , but the Government have have 13 year to revise that contract , stabilise dentistry and make it fit for the future . instead , they have choose to rest on their laurel and have pursue muddle plan , allow dentistry to crumble . the crisis in our dental system can be trace back to one fundamental cause : challenge to our workforce . over the past decade , there have be a complete failure to forward plan about the workforce need of our dentistry system in the future . we must be aware that any hope of recovery must be catalyse and underpin by a comprehensive workforce plan that set the nhs and dentistry up for a long - term , stable and productive future that serve the citizen of our country . that bring I on to labour ' s plan to revive NHS dentistry . it be labour ' s plan 75 year ago that bring NHS dentistry into existence and it will be labour ' s plan that will save NHS dentistry from the perilous position that the conservative party have create . our plan will give patient the care they need and deserve . our plan will fund 700 , 000 more urgent appointment , for thing such as filling and root canal . we will incentivise new dentist to work in area with the great need , tackle those dental desert that be now so rife across our country . we will implement supervised toothbrushing in school , so we can directly tackle these issue at source , and in the long run we will reform the dental contract so that we can rebuild the service and that NHS dentistry be truly there for all who need it . this powerful and comprehensive plan will give dentistry the staff , equipment and modern technology it need to get patient see on time , and help thousand of people across my constituency who be in such desperate need of the dental care that , fundamentally , they deserve as british citizen . access to dental care in West Yorkshire be a problem that can not be ignore . dental care be a fundamental right and its absence have far - reach consequence for the health of our whole community . currently , no dentist be accept new NHS patient in the whole of Leeds , with waiting list last year . only recently , a dentist in my constituency , in the rural market town of Otley , withdraw from the NHS scheme cite a " chronic lack of investment " ; Manor Square have be a reliable provider of NHS dentistry to the local community for many year — intergenerational community and family have be receive NHS care at that practice for many decade — but now they can not receive it there . the practice ' s withdrawal from the scheme have affect 15 , 000 patient and raise serious question about the future availability of affordable dental care in the whole area . one constituent be pay around £ 45 for two annual check - up at the practice , with their child receive free dental care . under the practice ' s new private dental plan , the cost will be £ 640 , which be clearly unaffordable for many family in Otley . such cost be set against rise cost for family across the board . the decision appear to be yet another symptom of the chronic underfunding and neglect face by the NHS . oral health be an integral part of our overall wellbeing and neglect it can lead to serious health issue down the line . the withdrawal of NHS dental care not only affect individual , but have a broad impact on the health infrastructure of our community . the consequence be feel not just by those who currently need dental service , but by all of we who value a robust and comprehensive healthcare system . we need an urgent reform of dental care . we need to recognise its critical role in maintain overall health . our community deserve access to quality and affordable dental service . the Government have no clear plan , but labour do . labour plan to provide 700 , 000 additional appointment and education on basic life skill in area where child ' s dental health be most affect , through supervised toothbrushing , and to reform the dental contract , which the Government have fail to do over the last 14 year . as many colleague have say , there be major issue face the workforce as many NHS dentist have leave to practise privately , or have leave the UK for country where dentistry be more highly value than it be by our Government . to conclude , the lack of dental care in West Yorkshire be a serious concern that demand immediate attention . it be not just a matter of oral health but a reflection of broad challenge across the NHS . that be why we should support the motion . member who have take part in the debate should make their way to the Chamber now , as the wind - up will begin after Mr Western finish his speech . after 14 long year of Conservative Government , our country be go backwards . nothing demonstrate that well than the dire condition of NHS dentistry . what kind of country have this Government allow we to become when people be force to pull out their own tooth with plier , because locate a dentist take new patient be almost impossible ? talk about go backwards : the Conservatives be drag we back to victorian time . the lack of access to NHS dentistry be one of the most common issue raise with I by constituent in Stretford and Urmston . the most recent datum available show that only 4 % of dental practice in my local authority area of Trafford be accept new adult patient on the NHS . moreover , the current NHS " find a dentist " website be badly out of date . despite claim to the contrary , a search use a postcode from Old Trafford in my constituency reveal that none of the top five result be accept new patient . my constituent tell I they waste time they do not have call around surgery because of the result they have be give , only to be disappoint . for the lucky few who can find a dentist , the wait time for treatment be simply unacceptable . as of September last year , there be almost 2 , 000 patient wait for oral surgery in my local authority area of Trafford , with the majority wait far long than the NHS 18 - week target for treatment . behind these number be people endure month of pain , distress and misery . in many case , their ability to work or learn be affect . they can not sleep . they can not enjoy the basic of life , like food and drink , and do not feel confident enough to go out with friend and family socially . that be the impact . that be the devastation that this crisis be cause up and down the country . although no one doubt the challenge that the pandemic have cause NHS dentistry , the truth be that a lack of funding and a failure to reform in the precede decade leave NHS dentistry uniquely expose to the impact of the virus . between 2010 - 11 and 2021 - 22 , total funding for dental service in England fall by 8 % , leave budget that have be unable to keep up with inflation or population growth . although today many Conservative Members have be quick to complain about the dental contract , their party have be somewhat slow to do anything about it , take 12 year to make what have widely be acknowledge as minor tweak — tweak that be criticise at the time by the BDA , which say that their implementation would make " little meaningful difference " . the Prime Minister pledge to restore NHS dentistry during his leadership campaign , but , over a year later , we know that a pledge from this Prime Minister be the kiss of death for whatever service he be highlight . Lo and behold , his dental recovery plan , which be promise last April , be still nowhere to be see . in contrast , Labour have a plan and it will not take we 14 year to deliver it . we will take immediate action to provide : 700 , 000 more urgent appointment ; new incentive for new dentist to work in area with the great need ; supervise toothbrushing in school for three to five - year - old ; and reform of the dental contract to rebuild the service in the long run . that be the type of ambition need to address the scale of this enormous crisis , and it be an ambition that will have the funding it need to become reality . politic be about choice . we on the Labour Benches choose NHS dentistry , end the misery , the wait and the pain for so many , over tax break for the super - rich . there should be no contest . I urge all member , include those on the Conservative Benches , to support the substantive motion . I start by express my thank to member across the House for their many powerful contribution this afternoon . they include my hon . friend the Members for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) , for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) , for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) , for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) , for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) , for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) , for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) , for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) , and for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) . they all speak forcefully about the struggle of their constituent to find an NHS dentist . that be far too common , as we have hear today . recently I be contact by a constituent whose daughter be tell she would have to wait four year for an appointment to get brace . she be 13 now and will be 18 by the time that she be see . that be not acceptable . let I also thank my hon . friend the Members for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) , for Sheffield , Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) , for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) , for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , and for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) for raise the issue of DIY dentistry . recent polling have find that around one in 10 adult have attempt some form of DIY dentistry . no one should be force to pull out their own tooth with plier . that be victorian healthcare in Britain in 2024 . the British Dental Association survey find that more than half of dentist in England have reduce their NHS commitment in the past few year , and almost half be consider either a change of career , early retirement or turn fully private . I hope that this be a wake - up call for Ministers . all of this paint a bleak picture , Mr Deputy Speaker . the Nuffield Trust describe it as a " widespread crisis " , bring NHS dentistry to its " most perilous point " in its 75 - year history . that be why we be debate this motion today . without urgent action , we be look at the end of NHS dentistry as we know it . seventeen month ago , while he be lose a leadership election to the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , the Prime Minister pledge to " restore " NHS dentistry . I think the Prime Minister might have learn his lesson about five - point pledge card by now , but I remind the House what he promise : ringfence funding ; frontline retention ; strengthen prevention ; and contract reform . yet hardly any of that have be deliver . there be few nhs dentist now than when he take charge , and they be do less nhs work . there have be no national roll - out of a supervise toothbrushing scheme to promote healthy habit among child , despite cavity be the top reason they be admit to hospital . as the Health and Social Care Committee have say , change to the dental contract " constitute tweak rather than anything close to ' reform ' . " the recovery plan , promise last April , be nowhere to be see . the Government ' s one big idea so far have be to tweak the dental activity contract to allow practice to deliver 10 % more nhs work but , have listen to today ' s debate , I do not think that a fraction of practice up their workload by 10 % will actually cut it — talk about toothless — and it certainly will not without the money to fund it . we have hear some laboured explanation from the Secretary of State about how local dentistry budget can be ringfence , yet simultaneously icb have be tell that they can raid those same budget to balance their bottom line . let I raise a specific example . last week , it be report that one integrate care board in the west midland have instruct practice that they will no long receive funding to deliver the extra 10 % of NHS work that be promise . labour ' s candidate in Newcastle - under - Lyme , Adam Jogee , tell I that people be already struggle to access basic dentistry as many dentist be not accept new patient . icb be suppose to improve access locally , well integrate service and address inequality . for one practice in Birmingham , the decision mean that from next month the money for it to see NHS patient will run out for the rest of the financial year . the u - turn mean that dentist who want to do more nhs work simply can not . that be bonker ! it be not just happen in the west midland : throughout the country there be more example of care board cut back funding for dentistry . eight out of 10 practice be not take on new NHS patient , and people be pull out not just their hair but their own tooth , because they can not get an appointment . one local dentist in Birmingham say : " the system be on the verge of collapse — and the only stakeholder that will eventually lose out be the patient . " that be not restore NHS dentistry ; that be another broken promise . do the Minister know how many other icb be withdraw funding ? have the Government even make an assessment of the u - turn ' s impact on thousand of people who can not get an appointment with an NHS dentist ? do they know how much schedule dental activity will be lose under the revise financial plan of icb ? as we have hear today , the consequence for patient be shocking , particularly for child and the most vulnerable . tooth decay be the no . 1 reason for hospital admission among child age six to 10 . ten of thousand of child be leave in pain for month , if not year , wait for procedure . they face difficulty learn , eat and sleep . it be particularly grim when we consider that child from the most deprived area be three time more likely to have hospital extraction than their peer . how can the Government hope to level up opportunity for every child in Britain when some be in too much pain even to concentrate at school ? sixty thousand school day be lose to this problem last year . that be why our plan include roll out a national supervised toothbrushing scheme that target the most deprive 20 % of child , embed good habit . it be recognition that prevention be well than cure . it will cost £ 9 million per year , which be dwarf by the estimate £ 51 million that it cost for child tooth extraction in hospital in the late year . labour actually understand good economic — that deal with issue early save case worsen and end up in secondary care , which put pressure on hospital and cost the taxpayer far more . while the Government have be roll back their ambition , Labour will ramp ours up . our motion propose give dental practice extra money to run urgent care programme to give people access to timely acute care , which they simply can not get right now . we will fund an extra 700 , 000 urgent appointment a year from revenue generate by abolish the non - dom tax status . not only be that cost , but it be deliverable and doable , because dental practice have the capacity to deliver ; the issue be that they do not have a Government with a plan that give they the certainty they need . our constituent need dental appointment far more than the wealthy need tax break . I be grateful to colleague who have raise the issue of the dental activity contract . they be right that it be no long fit for purpose , and I think that minister know that — despite have pledge to reform it 14 year ago , which they have clearly fail to do . do they share my concern that without wide reform to tackle retention issue in NHS dentistry , recruitment alone will be like try to fill a leaky bucket ? in the meantime , NHS dentistry be die a slow death . I be shocked to read about a pilot scheme in Cornwall in which only child and the most vulnerable be be see on the NHS . at one practice , 4 , 500 patient be kick off the book and tell either to go private or to find another dentist . this be what we can expect under five more year of the Conservatives : dentistry for the few and everyone else leave to sink or swim . we in the Labour party will never accept that . nhs dentistry be an issue that cross party line and be as desperate in many conservative constituency as it be in labour one . we have good datum on dentistry practice self - report whether they can take on new NHS patient . in Milton Keynes North , 12 out of 12 practice be not accept any new adult patient , and in Bassetlaw , 10 out of 10 surgery be not accept new adult patient and seven in 10 be not accept anyone at all . in Louth and Horncastle , the Health Secretary ' s own constituency , not a single practice be accept new adult patient . that be a big constituency ; imagine how far someone live on the coast would have to travel to get an appointment . I hear it be about 21 mile to the near dentist . be her message to constituent just to get on their bike ? or will she back our proposal today for a target recruitment scheme to train up new dentist in leave - behind area ? the crisis in NHS dentistry be urgent and can not be ignore any long . the Government need to drop the spin and accept the fact . in the short term , service need to be put on a sustainable footing , and in the long term we need deep reform to ensure that everyone who need an appointment can get one . I urge member across the House to do right by their constituent today and vote for Labour ' s motion to rescue NHS dentistry from further decay . I welcome the chance to come to the House to hear from colleague about the challenge of dentistry and access to dentistry , as well as some of their constructive idea for our recovery plan , so that all our constituent can get the healthcare they deserve at a time when system continue to be under huge pressure since the covid pandemic . the Opposition be rather determined to debate dentistry today ; I be a bit suspicious that that be because they be try to pre - guess what the Government ' s dentistry recovery plan will contain , but I be as desperate as they be that we get on with it and I can assure all colleague across the House that I be work flat - out on that . when the Prime Minister ask I to take on this job in November , I leapt at the chance to improve our whole nation ' s health and especially — as colleague throughout the House will know — to prevent future ill health in baby and child . it be the chance to change the future health of every baby and child that be the big opportunity here , and I be proud of some of the measure we have already introduce to support supervise toothbrushing through the start for life programme and in local authority . the Opposition ' s motion talk about supervised toothbrushing for three to five - year - old . I do not know whether they do not know this , but we have tooth from before we be bear . if child do not get your supervised toothbrushing until they be three at a minimum , their tooth be about four - and - a - half year old . it be much more important to have that supervise toothbrushing in the family hub , education for parent and supervise toothbrushing in nursery . let we say that that be something we can all agree on : child certainly have their tooth long before they be three , so I think our plan will be significantly well . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say in her opening remark , recover and reform NHS dentistry be a top priority for the Government . that be why one of the first thing I do as a new Minister be to host a roundtable with key figure from the dental sector , include the chief dental officer Jason Wong and dentist from right throughout the country , to hear about the challenge they face . I have also meet colleague from throughout the House to hear about the specific challenge in their constituency . I have hear they loud and clear , and every bit of feedback be inform our dentistry recovery plan . I want to set out some of the recovery that be already under way — not enough by any mean , but good progress , and not the failure that Labour want to portray it as . it be a good recovery from a disastrous situation during covid . in 2022 - 23 , 6 . 1 million more course of treatment have be deliver than in 2021 - 22 , and seven out of 10 patient have have a good overall experience of dental service , accord to survey . More than 18 million adult be see by an NHS dentist in the 24 month to June 2023 , which be an increase of 10 % on the previous year . some 6 . 4 million child be see by an NHS dentist in the 12 month up to 30 June , which be an increase of 800 , 000 compare with the previous year . nearly 1 , 400 more nhs dentist be available in 2022 - 23 than in 2010 - 11 . of course , in our long - term workforce plan we announce a 40 % increase to dentistry training place — that be incredibly important . I pay tribute to all our NHS staff , who continue to work tirelessly to deliver vital dental care to those who need it the most . dental staff deserve our support , which be why we be work flat out on both short and long - term solution for the recovery and reform of NHS dentistry . colleague raise a number of point that I will seek to answer in turn , although I apologise that can not deal with they all . the hon . member for Sheffield , Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) and a number of other Opposition Members raise the issue of tooth decay in child . I totally agree with she that good oral hygiene right from the very beginning , even before milk tooth come through , be absolutely crucial . she also praise community dental service , and I share her gratitude to those who go out into care home , hospital and community centre to help people with urgent care need . my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , who chair the Health and Social Care Committee , make a number of incredibly helpful point . he ask specifically whether we plan NHS access for all . we certainly intend it for all who need it . he ask how we will realise it . he say that we need to get nhs dentist back on side through our reform , and ask about the dental workforce . he be absolutely right to raise those issue , all of which will be deal with in our recovery plan . my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) be a huge campaigner for his area ' s need . he and I have already meet on a number of occasion to talk about dentistry . he be right to highlight that some area be struggle more than other because of under - delivery on NHS contract on the one hand and insufficient NHS contract on the other . I be prioritise measure to tackle both . the hon . member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) talk about the UDA rate , which he say be just too low . I have a lot of sympathy for that argument , but equally , he will appreciate that the ' 22 reform ensure that dentist would be pay more for complex treatment . my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) rightly challenge Labour . this be a Labour Opposition day , but Labour have no real plan . Labour member talk about lot more appointment but do not say how they will deliver they . they talk about raise the money from non - dom but they have spend that money many time over . they plan to supervise toothbrushing for three - year - old , but that be too little , too late . the hon . member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) raise the issue of access to dentist . he be right to do so because that be a key challenge for everybody throughout the country . there be no clear pattern of deprivation go hand in hand with poor access to dentistry ; if anything , the bad access to dentistry be in coastal area . we be look carefully at that to improve access right across the country . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) point out that his ICB be support and promote drop - in where there be availability for patient . that be exactly what icb should be do and be brilliant news . I appreciate his point about the difficulty that dentist find in update the NHS website . if he want to take that up with I separately , I will be happy to look into it on his behalf . likewise , the hon . member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) raise an important case about dental insurance . if she write to I , I will be happy to take it up on her behalf . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) talk in particular about the workforce plan and training , which be so important . we will look at many way of increase access , both by enable dental therapist and hygienist to work to the extent of their licence and by get far more overseas - register dentist and improve their throughput so that they can start work , particularly in the least well - serve area . my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) highlight the problem with NHS dentist return their contract in order to work privately , and he be right that we need to work on that . he share great thought about a dental school at Teesside University , about the importance of graduate dentist work in the NHS and , of course , about the importance of mobile dentistry , all of which be crucial idea . my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) talk about long distance and the problem of get dentist into more rural area . she also raise the fact that toothbrushing and prevention be crucial . there have be some great contribution from Members right across the House , for which I be very grateful . dentistry have be one of the most challenging subject in my portfolio as a new Minister , and I be determined to address it . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State outline , we be invest £ 3 billion a year in dentistry , and we need to ensure that every penny be spend properly and deliver the good result . however , the honest truth be that to recover from covid , during which hardly anyone see a dentist , whether private or NHS , money will not be the silver bullet — a quick funding fix can not solve all of the backlog and deliver on our ambition that everyone who need an NHS dentist should be able to access one . as such , we be work on both short - term recovery and long - term system reform , support by the profession . we will be fix some of the fundamental flaw in patient access and health inequality that have be highlight and exacerbate by the pandemic , many of which have be raise in the Chamber today . we have make good progress on dentistry , particularly through the 2022 reform , and can be proud of the improvement achieve to date . again , I sincerely thank all dental staff for their hard work and commitment to recovery . finally , have be on the receive end of " in due course " for many year myself , colleague will realise that I be chomp at the bit to reveal more about our dentistry recovery plan . I need to ask they all to be patient just a little while long , but I will change the line about when to expect it from " shortly " to " very shortly " . question put ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the Question . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle David Lammy Ian Lavery Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Tonia Antoniazzi Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan djanogly Steve double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Paul Maynard Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mike Wood Suzanne Webb the House divide : Ayes 191 , Noes 299 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the propose word be there add . question agree to . the Deputy Speaker declare the main question , as amend , to be agree to ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) . resolve , that this House recognise the impact of a once - in - a - generation pandemic on NHS dental service , with 7 million few patient see in England across 2020 and 2021 ; note these challenge be reflect in both Scotland and Wales ; acknowledge the step already take to recover service in England include the introduction of a minimum rate and increase payment for complex dental activity to well reward dentist for their work ; welcome the publication of the Long Term Workforce Plan which commit to expand dental training place by 40 per cent ; and support the upcoming publication of the Government ' s plan to far recover and reform NHS dentistry and promote good oral health throughout life . Rwanda Plan Cost and Asylum System I beg to move , that an Humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction to the Home Secretary that , no later than 16 January 2024 , there be lay before this House : ( a ) a list of all payment , either already make or schedule , to the Government of Rwanda under the Economic Transformation and Integration Fund , include the cost of the fourth - and fifth - year payment due to the Government of Rwanda under the fund ; ( b ) any document provide by his Department to HM Treasury relate to the per person cost of relocate individual to Rwanda under the Agreement for the Provision of an Asylum Partnership Agreement to strengthen Shared International Commitments on the Protection of Refugees and Migrants ( CP 994 ) ; ( c ) an unredacted copy of the confidential memorandum of understanding refer to in response to question 20 at the Public Accounts Committee meeting on 11 December 2023 ; ( d ) any paper set out the cost per person of relocate individual to Rwanda and the Government ' s assumption about the number of asylum seeker to be send to Rwanda per year share with or provide by HM Treasury between March and July 2022 ; and ( e ) his Department ' s internal breakdown of the 35 , 119 non - substantive asylum decision make between 1 January and 28 December 2023 show the number of such decision that be classify as withdraw asylum application and the number furth sub - classify as either : ( i ) non - substantiate withdrawal ( ii ) other withdrawal . I move the Humble Address to get some basic fact out of Government Ministers . fact that , so far , they have be desperate to hide : fact about the Rwanda scheme ; fact about the asylum backlog ; and just basic fact about policy that the Government claim be their flagship but , in fact , be fail . taxpayer have a right to know how much of their money this Government have promise the Rwandan Government in exchange , frankly , for a series of press release . More Home Secretaries than asylum seeker have be send to Rwanda so far , and some pretty expensive trip they have turn out to be , with an average cost of around £ 100 million a trip so far . the public also have a right to know what have really happen to the asylum backlog , which still stand at nearly 100 , 000 case . a total of 35 , 000 case have be remove from the figure in the past year with no answer on why or where those people be . be they still in the UK , or have the Home Office lose they ? there be basic fact we need to know , in particular the fact about the Rwanda policy that we need in advance of the debate in Parliament next week . it matter that we know those fact , because we now know that the Prime Minister himself have huge doubt about the cost and efficacy of the scheme when he be Chancellor . however , he be still go ahead with it and he still will not tell we what those cost and those doubt be . we know now from paper leak to the BBC that the then Chancellor , now Prime Minister say that the " deterrent win ' t work " . he be so sceptical about the scheme that he try to cancel it in the leadership election and have to be persuade against do so , and he push for small volume and low cost , yet he will not tell we what the final agreement on cost and number be between the Home Office and the Treasury . be it true that he water down the scheme , just as the former Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) claim he water down so many of her proposal ? we still need to know the fact , because the Prime Minister be still go ahead with a scheme that he do not believe in , do not think will work and know be extortionately expensive , because he be too weak not to . we can see on his face that he do not support it and do not believe in it . he be just desperately hope , in the word of the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , for " one or two symbolic flight off before the next election " , even if everyone end up be send back again , even if the whole thing collapse after that and even if the cost be a total fortune , because the Prime Minister be not plan to tell anyone before the election what the total cost be . in the end , the only deterrence that the Prime Minister believe in be deter his Back Benchers from get rid of he . it be weak , weak , weak , and the taxpayer be pay the price . it be a totally farcical situation : a Prime Minister who do not think it be a deterrent , a Home Secretary who think it be " batshit " , a former Home Secretary who say it will not work , a former Immigration Minister who say it do not do the job and everyone who think that what we have be an incredibly expensive sham with the taxpayer be con . if minister disagree with everything that I just say describe their plan , what be there to hide ? tell we the fact , and show we where all of that be wrong . we do know a few fact here , and one of the fact we know be that the scheme have be in the making for 18 month . in that 18 month , the money that have be spend on it would have employ 6 , 000 caseworker in the Home Office . might that not have be a well way of proceed ? the right hon . member be right . there be many way in which the hundred of million of pound spend could alternatively have be invest . it be probably roughly equivalent to about a third of the budget of the National Crime Agency , for example , to take action on criminal gang . the right hon . member be right , and we do know some figure on the cost of the Rwanda scheme . we know that Ministers write a cheque for £ 120 million in April 2022 , and then there be another £ 20 million in summer 2022 . they then do not want to tell we anything more at all . it be only thank to the Rwandan Government and the information that they provide to the International Monetary Fund that the Home Office have be force to give we a bit more information . against Ministers ' will , we know that they have write another cheque for £ 100 million during 2023 , and they promise another £ 50 million in spring this year , in just a few month ' time . we have £ 290 million of cheque to Rwanda for no asylum seeker to be send , £ 290 million to send more Home Secretaries than asylum seeker , nearly £ 100 million per Home Secretary trip , and there be more . the permanent secretary have admit that there be a further payment plan for 2025 and another one for 2026 , all independent of whether any asylum seeker be ever send . I ask the Home Secretary in December whether in fact those payment be also £ 50 million each ; he say that he be happy to confirm that . the following morning , it be put to he in media interview that the Government be now spend £ 400 million on Rwanda , and he do not deny it . so we can only conclude that the sum be indeed near £ 400 million . independent of what happen with this law , the plan and the flight , £ 400 million of cheque be be write to Rwanda when that could have be invest in tackle criminal gang and could have be invest in make a difference . if it be not £ 400 million , again , Ministers should tell we what the actual figure be . the right hon . Lady be make a persuasive case , with which I entirely agree . but do the Labour party have any moral or ethical opposition to processing in third country ? we already have , and have have for a long time , process in other country within the UK asylum system . for example , the Homes for Ukraine scheme , which I think both he and I support , mean processing case in other country . it be also what happen for the Hong Kong scheme . we know that the cost be now £ 400 million , and we can conclude that it be possibly considerably more . accord to the treaty , there be additional per - person cost — if anyone be actually send — to cover asylum processing , to cover accommodation cost for five year , and to cover three meal a day for five year . that be in the treaty , but the Government will not tell we how much all that add up to . we know from the impact assessment for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 that the Home Office be prepared to say that the average cost of send someone to a theoretical third country would be £ 169 , 000 — a remarkable level of precision for a figure pick out of thin air . however , it will not have choose a figure for that assessment that be high than the Rwanda cost , because it will not assume that it would have to pay for three meal a day for five year everywhere . that suggest that the actual figure per person be high . maybe near £ 200 , 000 per person ? again , if that be wrong , Ministers should tell we . otherwise , it suggest that if the Home Office manage to sort out its legal wrangle and get flight off the ground , another whopping bill be come . suppose the Home Office manage to send 100 people to Rwanda this year , which be what the Court of Appeal say be Rwanda ' s capacity . well , that mean another £ 20 million cheque . if that be wrong , again , tell we the additional per - person cost . minister say that they can not possibly tell we any of these thing because it be somehow commercially confidential . what a load of total nonsense . this be not a contract with a company with shareholder and intellectual property right and competitor who will not bid if they think all their cost detail will be scrutinise by other company ; this be an agreement with a sovereign state . if the Kigali Government choose to contract out housing to a private provider , that might have some commercial consideration , but that be a matter for they , not for we . minister claim that it will somehow make it hard to agree deal . again , they be make up these argument because they be embarrassed and do not want to reveal the figure . in other area , the Government have tell we the fact . in March 2023 , the Prime Minister announce £ 476 million over three year for the agreement with France . it be set out in detail , with £ 124 million in 2023 - 24 , £ 168 million in 2024 - 25 and £ 184 million in 2025 - 26 . we know what the future spending will be on that agreement with France , so why not tell we the future spending agree with Rwanda ? the work with France , which we support , cover coastal patrol , drone and technology . it need to be properly scrutinise to ensure that we be get value for money , but we support work with the french police along the coast to prevent dangerous boat crossing and to protect our border security . we want to go far , work with other country to tackle the criminal gang , but why publish those detail in full and set they out several year in advance for France and not for Rwanda ? the Government can not claim that it be because they might be try to negotiate agreement with other country compare to Rwanda and not with France . they might have to negotiate future agreement with Belgium , the dutch police and other government , give that the border inspectorate have point out that many of the smuggler route pass through there , but that be not prevent the Government be public about the fact on the France scheme . it be time that the Government give we the fact that Parliament would normally be entitle to , and that the public and , crucially , the taxpayer should be entitle to . how much of taxpayer ' money have they promise to Rwanda for a scheme that be fail ? the motion set out some of the fact that we want : payment make or schedule , include the fourth and fifth year figure ; the per person cost ; the memorandum of understanding that set out the money agreement ; and the agreement between the Home Office and the Treasury while the Prime Minister be Chancellor on cost and number , so that everyone have the chance to see what doubt the Prime Minister have , rather than their be hide away from the taxpayer . we be hold this Opposition Day debate to give the Government the chance to give we the proper figure , which cross - party Select Committees such as the Public Accounts Committee , the Home Affairs Committee and the Liaison Committee have be ask for . the Government also claim that none of that matter because the cost will be outweigh by the saving on asylum hotel , but I must break it to they that all this money for Rwanda be in addition to asylum hotel . it have be report this week that the Prime Minister tell the Home Office to keep open some asylum hotel . we know their plan for basis and barge have be unravel . one hundred people be quietly move out of Wethersfield in the Home Secretary ' s constituency and move into hotel . plan to put people into Catterick , in the Prime Minister ' s constituency , have now be drop . it be cost more to keep people on the Bibby Stockholm than it be in hotel . it be total chaos and a total mess , which be why there be 20 % more people in asylum hotel than there be a year ago when the Prime Minister promise to end they . Rwanda do not change any of that . in fact , their migration legislation , supposedly to enable Rwanda , be likely to make the backlog and the cost worse . do my right hon . friend agree that the lack of clarity over the Rwanda plan and its cost be happen at a time when the Tories have weaken our border security and break the asylum system ? for six year we have have criminal smuggler gang continue to take over the channel , while Home Office asylum decision making have collapse . it be incredibly important that we get control of our border and our system at the Home Office , and it be vital that that transparency come to Parliament . my hon . friend be completely right . over the last five year , the Conservatives have let criminal gang take hold along our border , along the channel . that be undermine our border security . we should be strengthen our border security and fix the asylum chaos that have build up over the last few year . that include go after the criminal gang and strong border security measure . the Court of Appeal say that the Rwanda scheme capacity will be only about 100 people . Rwanda ' s asylum system be use to decide only about 100 case a year , and the Immigration Minister have admit that the likely number of people be only in the hundred . the current backlog be over 100 , 000 people , and last year over 90 , 000 people apply for asylum in the UK . we have a policy that will likely cover less than 1 % of those arrive in the UK , at a cost of hundred of million of pound that the Government will not come clean about . that raise another important question . rise — rise — before I get to that important question , I will give way briefly to both hon . member in turn . will labour ' s policy , or propose policy , for address border security be to allow offshore processing claim in Turkey ? in theory , someone who be in Turkey and apply for the Homes for Ukraine scheme would be process while in Turkey . however , it be not clear what the Government be propose , or what the hon . Member be propose , because nothing have be propose by the Government . labour ' s proposal be to go after the criminal gang through a new cross - border unit , with strong security power , and a new security agreement with other european country , and to stop the boat before they reach the french coast by go after the supply chain of the criminal gang . under the Conservatives there have be a 30 % drop in the number of people smuggling conviction , which show that they be not take action on the smuggler gang but instead have let they take hold , and we will tackle that . my right hon . friend be make an excellent speech . be not the problem with the Rwanda scheme compound by the fact that it mean we have to take people from Rwanda as well ? what benefit do we get ? that be an interesting point . it be true that the Rwanda treaty that have be agree state that first the United Kingdom will need to take some refugee from Rwanda , but it do not specify who will pay for those refugee . we know that people who be transfer to Rwanda will be pay for by the UK taxpayer , and also that people can be return if , for example , they commit serious crime in Rwanda , which will mean that , effectively , foreign national offender be be return . there be a question mark over that as well . we assume from the lack of information that the UK taxpayer will also pay those cost , but again , if the position be different it would be helpful to know about it . the Minister have the opportunity to respond by give we detail of all the cost . this raise another important question to which we have not yet receive answer . under the suspend provision of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which the Prime Minister often boast about as if they be law but which , in fact , have never be enact , everyone who arrive in the country after July 2023 should be detain and remove to a third country . the Home Office have suggest that that provision will be enact once the flight to Rwanda start , but more than 33 , 000 case — probably involve more than 40 , 000 people — be already on the list . be Ministers really say that all those 40 , 000 people will be send to Rwanda this year , even if the Government manage to get the flight off the ground ? give the rate at which they be talk of send people to Rwanda , it will take more than 100 year to clear the backlog — and presumably all those people will be in hotel accommodation in the meantime , pay for by the UK taxpayer . will the Minister tell we what the actual plan be ? be the Government plan to implement the Illegal Migration Act if the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill be pass and to push up the backlog for perhaps a century , or be they in fact plan an amnesty in respect of the Act for ten of thousand of people ? they have not admit such a plan to their Back Benchers , and they certainly do not admit it in the social medium graphic they send out . do my right hon . friend agree that instead of spend this vast amount of money on a fail Rwanda scheme , Britain and the other european Governments ought to be think about the number of people , many from Afghanistan , who be lead a marginal existence , in desperate poverty and freeze to death , on the street of Calais and other city around Europe ? they be the victim of human right violation and war all around the world . should we not be think about they and help they rather than pour money into the Rwandan Government , which have achieve absolutely nothing ? my right hon . friend have make an important point about , in particular , the issue relate to Afghanistan , where we know there have be huge persecution by the Taliban . we also know that there be people who help our armed force and , effectively , work for the UK Government in Afghanistan , and as a result have be target by the Taliban . the afghan resettlement scheme set up by the Home Office have have all kind of problem . it be important that there be proper reform to the resettlement scheme to make sure that they be effective , and that they prevent people be exploit by people trafficker and people smuggler . that be why it be so important to take action to stop these dangerous boat crossing , which be put life at risk and undermine our border security , and on which the criminal gang have make profit of probably £ 0 . 5 billion over the last few year as a result of be able to take hold along the channel . the right hon . Lady mention 34 , 000 case so far since the printing of the Illegal Migration Bill . of those case , if people be find to have no credible case for asylum to stay in the United Kingdom , and if they come from country to which it be virtually practically impossible to return they , what would she do with they ? as the hon . Member will know , we should be return people who do not have a foundation in persecution or conflict , who do not have a well - found asylum claim . they should be be return to their own country . but he will also know that there have be a 50 % drop in the return of fail asylum seeker since 2010 — a huge drop . we should be work with a new return and enforcement unit , with proper staffing in place , to reverse that drop . he will also be aware , because it be in evidence give to the Home Affairs Committee , where he have work immensely hard over many year , and because he take these issue very seriously , that only 5 % of those who arrive from Albania — include on small boat — over the past few year have be return to Albania . although we support the Albania agreement , it be in fact be use predominantly to return historic case , and have not be use for the kind of case he be talk about , in which decision should be fast - track and people should be be return quickly . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for give way again , but she have answer a question that I do not ask . I be refer not to Albanians but to people from country that she know it be practically impossible to return they to . the iranian Government will not let they off the plane . Eritreans would put they in jail and say they would be appeal on human right . what would her party , in government , do with those people who have come here illegally from such country , with no basis on which they could stay and no way of negotiate return agreement with country like Iran ? the hon . Member will know that people from country such as Eritrea and Iran be very often grant asylum , and will not be send to Rwanda under his Government ' s policy because Rwanda will only be able to take a hundred or a couple of hundred people a year , at a cost of hundred of million of pound . that be the core dishonesty and the failure at the heart of the Government ' s programme — they be promise people that they will make huge change to the exist system , but they be not at all . instead , if anything , all they will do be stack people up in asylum hotel for even long than the taxpayer be fund they , for a bill , currently , of £ 8 million a day — up from £ 6 million a day . the Prime Minister declare the asylum backlog clear — that be what he say — which be take the country for fool . there be 99 , 000 case in the backlog . that be probably over 120 , 000 people , and all the Home Office have try to do be clear the case before July 2022 — case that be already more than 18 month old . those case should not be in the system by now anyway . any properly function system would have clear case that be more than 18 month old , but that be the scale of Tory chaos . why be they just try to catch up with themselves , clear those very old case ? of course , the backlog since July 2022 have double . even their weak , limited target to clear the so - call " legacy backlog " have fail , with 4 , 500 case not clear and 35 , 000 case simply withdraw . we want the fact about that . what have happen to those 35 , 000 case ? we know from the evidence to the Select Committee in November that as of November , the Home Office have no idea where 17 , 000 of those claimant be . how many of the 35 , 000 do the Home Office know to have leave the country ? how many of they do it know to be deceased or to be duplicate case ? and how many be probably still here ? they might be work illegally , they might have restart their asylum application and go back to the beginning of the system , or they might be destitute on the street . whatever have happen to they , they be still here and the Home Office do not have a clue . can the Minister give we a breakdown of the 35 , 000 case ? be enforcement action take if those people should not be here ? it not , this all look like more smoke and mirror from a dodgy salesman Prime Minister . we support some of the Government ' s measure relate to France , and we support the agreement with Albania . we want to see more proper international co - operation like that , and we should be on steroid in tackle the criminal gang . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will give way one more time . I need to finish so that other can speak . I thank my right hon . friend for give way . she will recall that at the end of the last Labour Government , there be return at the rate of one every eight minute . do that not demonstrate that , where there be a will , we can tackle those who should not be in the country and welcome those who should ? my hon . friend be right , which be why Labour will set up a new return unit with 1 , 000 staff to do return and enforcement — to actually get return agreement in place , to go through individual case and to reverse the 50 % drop in return since 2010 . instead of the Rwanda scheme , as part of our five - point plan to strengthen border security and to fix the Tories ' asylum chaos we would use the money to fund proper action to go after the criminal gang . we would have new cross - border police with strong power , similar to counter - terror power . we would have new security agreement with Europol and other country to stop the boat reach the french coast in the first place . we would properly clear the backlog , end hotel use ; we would have a major return and enforcement unit , alongside reform to resettlement route , so that the UK continue to do our bit to help those flee conflict and persecution and so that we prevent people from be exploit by criminal gang ; and we would have proper international co - operation and proper plan to deal with the problem at source by provide in - region support to refugee , which be something this Government have repeatedly cut back . we believe in strong border security and a properly control and manage asylum system , so that the UK do its bit to help those flee persecution and conflict , as we have always do , and so that those with no right to be here be swiftly return . under the Tories , we have none of those thing . we just have chaos . we just have a con . five broken promise from a fail Prime Minister . he promise to clear the backlog — it be still 100 , 000 . he promise to stop the boat — last year see the second - high number of crossing on record . he promise to end hotel use — it go up , not down . he promise to return everyone — return be down 50 % . he promise to pass a new law and , to be fair , he do pass a new law — he just do not implement it . that be the problem with this Prime Minister : shiny graphic but shoddy gimmick ; wide - eyed promise but never delivery . the Tories all know it , which be why they should all be call for the same fact as we , because those fact will expose what be really go on in this government — the con on everyone . they should stop let their front bencher play smoke and mirror . they should be ask for the figure . the House should get those figure , as they be the figure we need . that be what this Humble Address should deliver . the opposition may not believe this , but I be grateful to they for give we the opportunity to debate this important issue that undoubtedly matter to people across the country . I be grateful because this debate provide I with the opportunity to highlight the fact that this Government have a credible plan to tackle illegal migration . some thing never change . when I move to the Department for Work and Pensions in October 2022 , the Labour party have no credible plan on illegal migration . and when I return to the Home Office 14 month later , guess what ? there be still no credible plan . some thing never change , and it be the same old labour ignore the british people ' s priority and try to glide to power under the radar without say anything credible about these issue . by contrast , we have a credible plan , we be work through that plan and it be deliver result . we should not see one aspect — one plank — of that plan in isolation ; it need to be see in a join - up way . small boat arrival to the UK be down by a third last year . opposition Members may not want to hear that , but it reflect the fact that the plan and the early step that be take be work . it also buck the trend across Europe , where illegal migration have rise . our european partner be follow our lead , with Italy , Germany , Austria and other all explore model similar to ours . the Government meet their target of eliminate the legacy asylum backlog and there be improve efficiency across the system . we will take forward that learning as we set about deal with the outstanding case . the use of hotel to accommodate asylum seeker be cost the taxpayer more than £ 8 million each day and one thing be for sure : if we be to take the do - nothing approach about the flow of case into the system , which be precisely what the shadow Home Secretary ' s policy would result in , all we would see be ballooning cost . that would be unfair and unsustainable , which be why we have take concrete step to return hotel to their rightful use , with 50 due to be hand back to the community this month . I hope the Minister have have an opportunity to visit some of these hotel . this be about not just the cost , which be increase , but the situation and dire condition for people wait for their claim to be assess . we be talk about family live in room with no access to food and no space for their child to learn — it be not a nice environment for people who just want their claim to be assess . will the Minister please get to grip with that ? it be absolutely right that the Government prioritise closing hotel . that be a policy we have set and be deliver against . [ interruption . ] Labour member keep say it be go up , but what we be see be hotel be close . that be happen week on week , and we will continue to sustain that process . rise — I will gladly give way to the shadow Home Secretary , as perhaps she will have a credible policy to put to the House . will the Minister confirm that the late figure show that the number of people in asylum hotel be 20 % high than it be last December , when the Prime Minister promise to end asylum hotel use , and that the cost have go up from £ 6 million a day when the Prime Minister complain about this last December to more than £ 8 million a day , as the Minister just say today ? the fact be that we be close asylum hotel and it be absolutely the right strategy to pursue . I regularly hear colleague across this House complain about hotel be open in their constituency . I want to get on and close those hotel , as do my colleague , and that be precisely what we will do . it be not sustainable just to continue with the status quo , in the way that the right hon . Lady advocate , in respect of the flow of people into the system . we must not forget that all those individual make perilous crossing of the channel , facilitate by evil criminal gang , be come from a fundamentally safe country . that be why , through our multifaceted approach to this issue , we will get to grip with it , because we be attack illegal migration at every stage , through work both at home and abroad . the Minister may be aware that the Great Northern Hotel , once the flagship hotel for Peterborough , be be use as asylum accommodation , but a Peterborough - base campaign mean that it have be stand down and now plan to be part — or could be part — of the £ 70 million regeneration package in the station quarter . be he surprised to learn that labour councillor in Peterborough oppose that and want the Great Northern Hotel to remain migrant hostel asylum accommodation ? very few thing surprise I about those in the Labour party . the thing they say and do do not always match the rhetoric of their Front Benchers . their policy — or lack of — on this matter speak for themselves . my hon . friend be an ardent advocate for get that hotel close , and I be grateful for the representation he make . the Government will continue with the mission we be on , which be to get this issue under control , close the hotel and make sure that our border and migration system be sustainable for the future . this be call a plan , but actually it be a strategy . the strategy be to dissuade and deter people from get in boat and cross the channel at huge risk . the plan may cost , but the implication be far big than just send people to Rwanda . my right hon . friend recognise that the plan be one part of the overarching strategy we be take forward to address the issue . let we not forget that if we have take the advice of member on the Opposition Benches , who have vote against so many of the measure we have put in place to try to address the issue , we would not have see crossing down by a third , albanian arrival drop by 90 % or hotel be close . it be fortunate that we do not take their advice — I dread to think what the situation would be have we do so . rise — the Minister say he have a plan , but this be the third plan set out during the last two year : the Illegal Migration Act 2023 have not work , we be tell the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 would stop the boat , and now we have the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . we be tell that the Bill have be water down because the Rwandans themselves want to comply with the international law and convention that the Tories want to breach . how be Rwanda dictate our immigration policy consistent with the Government ' s claim to be take back control of our border ? it be rather ironic to hear from Opposition Members on this subject . I well remember the shadow Home Secretary be one of the lead light of the effort to try to keep we in the European Union , and I know where her instinct lie on these issue . she be very happy to continue with the free movement of people and willing to have that open - door border approach . the hon . Gentleman cite rhetoric from the referendum campaign , but he too have vote against every single measure that we have try to take forward to make progress on this . [ interruption . ] the good news for he be that there be an opportunity to put all that right and to be in the Lobby next week when we consider the Bill , to make sure we can get on and operationalise the plan . the opposition keep say it be waste of money but they could get behind the Bill in the Lobby and help to operationalise it . rise — the Minister say that hotel be close , but in my constituency people be move from hotel to house in multiple occupation . how be that deal with the issue rather than just move it around ? the policy platform that the hon . Gentleman be stand on would do absolutely nothing to reduce the flow of people come illegally to this country , all of whom be leave safe country in order to make perilous journey across the channel , with all the risk to human life that that present . let we look at the issue over a 20 - year time span . under the Blair Government , people be try to come here illegally under lorry ; we do a load of work , we put in x - ray scanner and we stop that criminal trade . they be now try to come by boat , so we be put the work in and try to stop that . do the Minister agree that Labour do not solve the original problem and have no plan to solve the current one ? I agree with my hon . friend on both front . it be important to recognise that this be one of big issue of our time . the british people want it deal with once and for all , and so do this Government . our position be clear . that be why we have put in place one of the most comprehensive plan for tackle illegal migration anywhere in the world , and it be why this endeavour be , and will remain , a priority for myself , my right hon . friend the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister , and the Home Office more generally . rise — I will give way to the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) , but I need to make some progress . the Minister keep cite the british people . be not most people in this country look at what have happen on this vital question since 2010 — over all the year for which this government have be in power — and see that the situation have only get bad and that no policy have really work ? be the Minister not ashamed of that fact ? it be worth the hon . Gentleman reflect on the fact that the small boat phenomenon be not an issue in 2010 . he be yet another Labour Member who have vote repeatedly against the various effort we have seek to make that have start to deliver the progress that I believe the british people want to see . the instinct of my constituent , and no doubt of his constituent , lend themselves to get on and get to grip with the issue . that be a fact , and the record speak to that fact . we will continue not to take the advice of those who would do very little , if anything , to address this issue , and we will get on with deliver on this plan . the plan recognise that illegal migration be a highly complex challenge , require innovative solution . in the Rwanda partnership , we have just such a solution . we be send the crystal clear message to those think about cross the channel to get to the UK that they will not be able to stay . let we not forget that , as I have say repeatedly , all those people be leave what be fundamentally safe country to make those crossing , which have be organise by criminal fraternity . of course it be true that the creation and implementation of a novel approach such as this come with an expect cost . to date , £ 240 million have be pay to Rwanda , and those figure have be provide to Parliament . the funding arrangement be boost the economy of Rwanda , which will benefit both host community and those relocate there , and will go to area such as agriculture , job and infrastructure . we have also provide an up - front credit to pay for start - up cost in advance of flight . although we do not agree with all of the Supreme Court ' s conclusion , we respect the Court . last month , the Home Secretary sign a new internationally legally bind treaty to address the Supreme Court ' s conclusion . crucially , the treaty remove the risk of refoulement and provide for an excellent standard of care for all those relocate . both country ' adherence to their obligation will be robustly monitor . the High Court and the Court of Appeal have already confirm that the principle of the partnership — to remove those with no right to be here to a safe third country — be lawful and compliant with the refugee convention . rise — I will gladly give way to the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . I thank the Minister for finally give way to I . he skip over the cost of the Rwanda scheme . yes , we know about the £ 240 million and the £ 50 million next year , but only because , as my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) say , it be leak — it emerge from the Rwandan Government . that be be investigate . can he not just share with the House the total cost of the scheme ? there be no reason not to do so . it be a flagship scheme of the Government . the Minister , from what he have say , be clearly proud of it , so why can he not share with we the total cost commit in the treaty ? it be slightly uncharacteristic of the hon . Lady to be mean - spirited . it be fair to say that we be have a good debate , and both Front Benchers have take many intervention . the Government have provide those costing to Parliament , and we will continue to report the cost in the annual report and account in a way that be perfectly normal , perfectly reasonable and perfectly respectable . will the Minister give way ? I will give way to the shadow Home Secretary just one last time , as I have be very generous . I be also conscious that there be many member who wish to speak . the Minister have be generous . give that he have publish the future cost of the agreement with France , why be he still refuse to publish year 4 and 5 of the Rwanda agreement ? we know how much will be pay in ' 24 , ' 25 and ' 26 for France . why not tell we the same figure for Rwanda ? the taxpayer be entitle to know . that information will be provide in the usual manner — through the annual report and account . the right hon . Lady will recognise that , within that , there be element such as the number and circumstance of individual who will be relocate , and we will publish those cost . that transparency will come as part of the annual report and account , as she would expect . we have touch in this debate on commercial sensitivity and the ongoing relationship with our partner . the court acknowledge that Rwanda enter the partnership in good faith , and the mechanism that we have introduce through the treaty will provide cast - iron guarantee to ensure the welfare of all those relocate . the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , which be the tough immigration legislation ever introduce in Parliament , will enable Parliament to confirm that Rwanda be safe . there will be very limited , specific circumstance under which someone can claim that Rwanda be unsafe for they in their exceptional circumstance . if a foreign court choose to interfere , we will do whatever it take to get flight off the ground . we will debate all of that again next week . Rwanda be a beacon of Africa , a country full of potential and promise that stand ready to welcome people into its community . Rwanda care deeply about provide humanitarian protection . it be incorrect and , frankly , offensive to reduce Rwanda ' s interest in this policy to a financial incentive . claim like that be often make by people who have never be and who choose to ignore the brilliant work that Rwanda do with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to provide sanctuary to many people in the spirit of partnership . that should be celebrate and welcome , not traduce . to be clear , the Government of Rwanda do not ask for money to sign the treaty , nor do we offer any . that say , do nothing be not a free option . it be right that there be additional funding to reflect the future cost . the total cost of the partnership will depend on the number of people relocate , the timing of when it occur and the outcome of individual case . Rwanda have the capacity to deliver on this uncapped partnership , and we have be work with it to build its capacity over the past year . as I say , it already host 135 , 000 refugee and asylum seeker work with the UNHCR and other partner . we must stop the boat and save life . the moral imperative could not be clear . ensure that those who arrive in the UK through unnecessary , illegal and dangerous mean can not stay here should prove a deterrent to other who may try to do the same thing . we need to stop criminal gang profit from this through decisive action . we know deterrent work . we have see that clearly demonstrate through the return agreement with Albania . that strong deterrent have see we return 5 , 000 Albanians in 2023 alone and albanian arrival fall by 90 % . we want every people smuggler to know that the UK be off limit and that we will not tolerate any further loss of life . nor will we accept the strain that high level of illegal migration place on our community and public service . to the criminal gang profit from misery , we say , " your despicable business model will no long be viable . " we remain firmly committed to get flight to Rwanda off the ground as soon as possible . we want the british people to know that we be put they and their interest first . we will not be deter . we accept and embrace the challenge . unlike Labour , we have a credible plan , be work through it and be make progress . by stick the course , we can and will stop the boat . some 14 hon . member seek to take part in the debate . we have to go into the wind - up at about 6 . 40 pm . by my miserable math , that mean I need to put an immediate time limit of five minute on speech after the SNP spokesman . I may have to bring that down — we will see how we go . I would like to put on the record yet again that the SNP wholeheartedly oppose the principle of the Rwanda plan , of offshore people as if they be some kind of tiresome trash that the UK do not want to deal with — a plan that amount simply to state - sponsor people traffic . it be not just about the money , as Labour set out in its motion today , as egregious and obscene a waste of money as this be ; it be about how we treat our fellow human being . these be people who have experience torture , have see their family murder and be run from horror that we be fortunate never to have know . they deserve much well than be yeete to Rwanda , a country that the Supreme Court have find be both unsafe and without the administrative capacity to take on the sensitive role the UK Government be put on it . accord to the late UNHCR datum , the majority of those who flee — 69 % — stay in neighbouring country . low and middle - income country host 75 % of the world ' s refugee and other people in need of international protection . those who do make it to our shore more often than not already have tie to the UK — of family , language or the long legacy of war and empire . UK Ministers often make the wild assertion that the 110 million displace people around the world be somehow all make their way to Dover and that the Rwanda plan be some kind of deterrent . that be not an assertion base in reality . will the hon . member give way ? I would like to make some progress because , as Mr Deputy Speaker say , we be quite short of time . to take Afghanistan as example , 6 million Afghans have be class by UNHCR as refugee , of whom 91 % have stay in neighbouring country , with 3 . 5 million in Iran and just over 2 million in Pakistan . there be 239 , 600 in Germany , 71 , 200 in France and just 12 , 200 in the UK — a mere 0 . 2 % of the total . give that there be 100 million people displace , if Scotland be an independent country , how many people would it take in ? I have just make the point that , of those 110 million people , a very tiny proportion actually come here . I also point out to the hon . member that put a specific numbered cap on thing have not work either . I remember the Government say they be go to get net migration down to the ten of thousand , and that have not work out . so number be not worth speak about in this debate in the way he think they be . that be a spurious argument and he should learn to look much hard at the issue , rather than put a very basic interpretation on it . the hon . Gentleman ought to know that Afghans have consistently make up a very high proportion of the people come across the channel in small boat . as I have point out repeatedly in this place to various Ministers at various time , that be a sign of the failure of the suppose safe and legal route they have set up . for every Afghan who have arrive on a resettlement scheme , around 90 have arrive by small boat . just imagine if the UK Government scheme be not so riddled with incompetence . no Afghan would need to risk set foot on a dinghy , and no one would need to sell everything they own , be exploit , beg , borrow and steal , and be bond in debt to people smuggler if the Government have scheme that work . it bear repeat that the only way for people to claim asylum be to get themselves to the UK . they can not claim in an embassy overseas , and airline and ferry will not board they if they do not have the requisite visa to get here . small boat be very much a last resort , not an easy option , and their use have increase as the route via lorry and other mean have become more difficult . minister talk about the expense of the asylum system , but that have come about largely as a result of their own incompetent administration . they have downgrade role in asylum casework and create a work culture so toxic that employee do not stay , with a lack of expertise and unmanageable caseload . the issue with the backlog be entirely of their own making , and they deserve no brownie point at all for attempt to fix what they break . we know that the Home Office ' s new asylum backlog stand just shy of 100 , 000 people who still require to have their case process . I see those folk at my surgery every week , and they certainly do not perceive much of an improvement from the Home Office , despite the Minister ' s spin . minister appear to have massage the figure to make the legacy backlog reduce from 92 , 000 to just under 5 , 000 , but a cynic might wonder why around a third of those backlog case be not actually decision make , but withdrawal . Free Movement have say : " the heavy use of withdrawal to reduce the number of pende application do make it look as though the backlog clearance be an exercise in number management more than anything else . " minister can not tell we where those 30 , 000 people be within the system , and it be also worth note that the first - tier immigration tribunal have see a 20 % increase in outstanding appeal , which now stand at 31 , 000 . I also note the further cost to other part of the immigration system due to the political focus on deal with the backlog . for example , I have hear increase instance of international student visa not be process in time for the start of term , with people have to defer their study because they have miss so much of their course that they can not turn up and study as they have plan to . for those who recall my mention in the previous debate of a sudanese constituent whose wife have be shoot in the leg while wait a year and a half for a family reunion application , I write to the Home Secretary on the subject and finally receive a letter from a civil servant say there be " considerable delay in family reunion decision making at this time " and that " application be be consider outside of the 60 working day service standard " . in fact , 60 work day would have be quite good for that woman , because have her application be process in time at the time , she would have be out of Sudan before the current conflict break out . now she wait in a very unsafe situation for a Minister to make progress on this matter . how long must she and other wait ? the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , even admit on tv in August that process asylum claim quickly " just encourage more people to come " . of course he have never present evidence to back up that assertion . if delay of several year be a feature , not a bug , Home Office Ministers be on shaky ground when they girn about the cost of keep asylum seeker in hotel . they have set the system up to work in this way . quite aside from the eye - water £ 8 million a day — over £ 3 billion a year — that it cost to house asylum seeker in inadequate hotel accommodation , there be a human cost to keep people in limbo . the asylum seeker I listen to want to be able to work , contribute and rebuild their life . they be skilled and talented people with a lot to give to their community , and they be grateful for the opportunity , but as long as they be keep out of the labour market and prevent from work , they lose their skill and confidence , and their mental health deteriorate . I have see far too many people at my advice surgery who can not understand a system that treat they with such disdain . a recent Scottish Government paper draw on analysis from the National Institute of Economic and Social Research , which suggest that grant people who be seek asylum in Scotland the right to work would add £ 30 million per year on average to the scottish economy if it be grant immediately on arrival , or £ 16 million per year if it be grant after a six - month waiting period — tax revenue increase and support cost be reduce . only a Government so wed to a toxic ideology would refuse to accept such a logical position . it be strange still that that persist because , as we in this place know , all policy come through the Treasury . the Prime Minister himself apparently voice concern regard the cost of the Rwanda policy during his time as Chancellor . it be report that he wish " to pursue small volume initially , 500 instead of 1 , 500 " in the first year of the scheme , and " 3 , 000 instead of 5 , 000 in year two and three " . the paper , see by the BBC , also suggest that he be " reluctant to fund so - call ' greek - style reception centre ' , site where migrant could be house , rather than be put up in hotel which be say to be cost £ 3 . 5 m a day at that point , the document suggest . they say , the ' Chancellor be refuse to fund any non - detain accommodation , eg greek - style reception centre , because hotel be cheap ' . " we can see that clearly from the example of the Bibby Stockholm , which , at over £ 22 million , be more expensive per night than put people in hotel . neither the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , the hon . member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , nor the director general for migration and border at the Home Office could vouch for the value for money of the vessel or provide comparative figure when they come to the Home Affairs Committee in December . the private company that provide such accommodation — mear , Serco , Clearsprings , Corporate Travel Management and the rest — be rake it in . misery be lucrative . Home Office Ministers often talk up the nebulous concept of deterrence , but oddly enough , they provide little evidence to back it up . we know from those paper see by the BBC that the then Chancellor do not believe that the deterrent would work , but now that he be Prime Minister , he will chuck any amount of money into the same vague concept . the Minister for counter Illegal Migration , the hon . and learn Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) , say that the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill be the tough Bill ever — well , since the last one , and the one before that , neither of which have work , and some of which have not be implement . Free Movement have publish a useful graph indicate that the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 and Illegal Migration Act 2023 have not have any deterrent effect on the figure . there be no evidence to suggest that the new Rwanda legislation will be any different . no wonder the Home Secretary be report to have call it " batshit " . it will not even work ; we know that because the Home Office have earmark at least £ 700 million to manage small boat until 2030 , which it would not do if it expect the boat to stop come — it be ludicrous . as well as be illegal and immoral , the Rwanda scheme be eye - wateringly expensive . the UK Government ' s own figure suggest that remove each individual to Rwanda would cost £ 63 , 000 more than keep they in the UK . if the Government be to send every asylum seeker who arrive last year , it would cost £ 7 . 7 billion . do conservative member truly believe that that be a price worth pay , particularly when people be struggle to feed themselves during a cost of living crisis ? give the absurd cost , the Home Office have be understandably reticent to provide more detail of the scheme . permanent secretary Sir Matthew Rycroft initially provide detail of the £ 140 million pay — £ 120 million through an economic transformation and integration fund , and a separate £ 20 million to cover initial set - up — but tell the Home Affairs Committee that he could not provide detail of further payment as that be " commercially sensitive " information and would only be release in the annual report and account each year . he be then force into disclose further cost in a letter to the Public Accounts Committee , in which he outline that a furth £ 100 million be pay to Rwanda in April last year , with another payment of £ 50 million due this year . during the debate on the Rwanda Bill , the Home Secretary confirm that the deal with Rwanda also include further payment of £ 50 million in 2025 and £ 50 million in 2026 , bring the total cost of the scheme to nearly £ 400 million without a single asylum seeker have be send there . that be a cost of about £ 130 million per Home Secretary who have be to Rwanda . a Freedom of Information Act request reveal that as of last month , the UK Government have spend £ 2 . 1 million defend the scheme in the court . with new legal challenge to the Bill and the treaty , more cost to the taxpayer be surely yet to come . all the time , while this cruel posturing continue , the number of people wait for asylum decision grow , safe and legal route have not emerge and have be close down , and Home Office staff be leave without the resource they need . all in all , it be an expensive distraction from the dull and boring work of govern well . as it be labour ' s debate , I want to focus briefly on its plan . as the hon . member for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) highlight in his question , the shadow Home Secretary do not rule out offshore people should Labour be in government , so I ask the Labour party whether it be the cost of offshore that it object to , or the principle . I be particularly interested in the paper release by the National Archives over Christmas , include the paper present by Jonathan Powell to the Blair Government entitle " Asylum : the Nuclear Option " , which suggest intern people on Mull or the Falkland Islands and deport people to Turkey and Kenya . when official from the Home Office warn that those measure would fall foul of the UK ' s international obligation to refugee , the Prime Minister ' s handwritten note read " just return they . this be precisely the point . we must not allow the ECHR to stop we deal with it . " twenty year on , that be chillingly reminiscent of the current Conservative Government . back in 2003 - 4 , Labour be also try to find a way of offshore people to Tanzania , and it have be report that it have recently be consult with the architect of that plan . if Labour still plan to offshore people , I ask how many , on what term , and at what cost ? how can it possibly be cost - effective to send people halfway around the world , only to bring they back if their case be successful ? when full fact ask Lord Blunkett about those historic plan , he say that he have " look at a system for processing appeal for fail asylum seeker in other safe country but reject it as impractical " , so be Labour for or against offshoring , and be that in principle , or on the basis of cost ? will it categorically rule out offshoring , or be it prepared to sell out the world ' s most vulnerable just to get Labour over the threshold of no . 10 ? it do not need to be this way — everything that have happen have be a political choice . this be about our duty and obligation in the world ; about the european convention on human right , which protect all of our right ; and about the refugee convention , which treat other as we would expect to be treat if a catastrophe happen on our own doorstep . Scotland want none of these cruel , inhumane plan . the Scottish Government have publish paper set out our direction of travel on this issue , which I commend to all those who be listen . the Scotland we seek would take her duty to the world seriously : the spirit of Kenmure Street tell we that these be our neighbour and our friend , and we must do our part to see that they be safe . it be unfortunate that Back Benchers will have under a third of this already truncate debate on what be a very important subject , but I start by praise the opposition for start the new year as consistently as they end the last one : consistently undermine and attack the Government ' s policy to tackle illegal migration and question the cost and cost - effectiveness of such measure , while consistently vote against those measure to tackle illegal migration — no few than 86 time — and consistently fail to come up with any serious , practical alternative measure to clamp down on illegal migration themselves . when they do produce flimsy and ill - thought - through measure , as they do before Christmas , they be completely opaque about the cost , or any aspect of any effectiveness at all . today , the Opposition have excel themselves with another Opposition day debate that be light on substance , light on comprehensiveness , completely light on viable alternative , and light on throw any light on anything at all that they would do . time and time again , they have be challenge to come up with their own plan , and have fail . as you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , I have be pretty consistent myself — both on and off the Home Affairs Select Committee — in challenge Ministers and official on the working and , often , shortcoming of migration policy for more clarity and evidence . that include the withdrawal figure , on which we challenge the permanent secretary just before Christmas . that be the only part of the motion with which I agree ; clearly , the opposition get the idea from the Home Affairs Committee , and have just cut and paste it into the motion today . have visit Tirana , Paris , Brussels , Calais , belgian beach , asylum seeker accommodation , detention centre , Border Force operation and so on with the Home Affairs Committee , I know that illegal migration be a complex and challenging issue that the PM have quite rightly identify as a priority for the british people . however , the Rwanda scheme be just one element of that big solution . no one be claim that the scheme be ideal — as the Supreme Court have judge , it have flaw in its design to overcome , which the Government be now address — but essentially , it be there to deal with one major problem , and an unfairness that undermine the generosity of the british public in rightly provide and fund a safe haven for asylum seeker who be genuinely flee conflict , persecution and danger . there be a question here , and until you can answer it , you lack credibility when attack the Government ' s attempt to do so . it be the question I raise early with the shadow Home Secretary , to which she do not have an answer : " what do you do with migrant from certain country who have enter the UK illegally , who do not have credible claim to remain in the UK , yet where it be virtually impossible to return those people to their country of origin ? " on that point , my hon . friend will know , as I do from my experience with foreign national offender , how difficult it be for country of origin to accept people back . very often , they just will not acknowledge their existence , because it be not in their interest to take back people who they may think be a detriment to they . he mention Eritrea and Vietnam , and there be a lot of other country . this be difficult stuff , and he be right to press the loyal opposition to come up with something more than the soundbite we have hear . I completely agree with my right hon . and learn Friend , because once those people make it into british territorial water , they be in effect guarantee to be live in the UK at the UK taxpayer ' expense for the foreseeable future , and that be what the Rwanda scheme aim to address . it be a deterrent to stop people make that dangerous journey in the first place , and it will become a lottery whether they end up in a hotel in Kent or on a plane to Rwanda . as I have say time and again , when the Home Affairs Committee go to Calais in January , we be tell by all the official deal with the scheme over there , that when the Government initially announce the Rwanda scheme , there be a surge of people at Calais seek to regularise their migration status in France , because they do not want to risk be put on a plane to Rwanda , so we know that it have a deterrent effect . as a fellow member of the Home Affairs Committee , would my hon . friend agree that the same official say it be crucial that the United Kingdom Government have a strong deterrent policy as part of other policy to protect our border ? that be exactly right . other country have show an interest in the scheme , as do the official when we speak to they in France , and other country want a part of the action that Rwanda may be get once this scheme actually start . it can unlock a whole host of opportunity , and I hope that we can ultimately have a series of european country , particularly in north Europe , work together as a multifaceted network on a Rwanda - type scheme . People smuggler thrive on any attempt to suggest that scheme such as this will not take off , so the opposition be do we a disservice . they be only play into the hand of the people smuggler by try to undermine the Rwanda scheme without come up with any alternative that would seriously damage the trade of the people smuggler in the first place . so it be right that we should give the Rwanda scheme space to get off the ground — literally — and it be also right that we should scrutinise the effectiveness of the scheme . the scheme need to be put in the context of the alternative . what be the cost of accommodate asylum seeker who have enter the UK illegally in hotel or other rent accommodation while await their decision ? on the basis of £ 6 million or £ 8 million a day for hotel alone , every additional £ 100 million estimate to be spend on the Rwanda scheme would accommodate people in hotel for just 17 day . let we put it in that context . what be the cost of multi - agency control and operation centre , and of Border Force and other patrol the english channel and pick up the boat ? where be a reference in this motion to more transparency about how the £ 480 million subsidy we now give to the french police force be be spend ? despite the fact of that record subsidy , interception rate by the french authority actually fall last year , and there be evidence that some of our money be be use in operation on the Franco - italian border , rather than on the channel . those be the comparison that need to be make . labour — the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) — come up with the five - point plan in March last year , but it turn out that most of those five point be already be undertake by the Government anyway . before Christmas , there be a story that Labour be consider detailed plan for a so - call offshore scheme , and that the last Labour Government — David Blunkett and other — apparently discuss a scheme for offshore to Tanzania , something that have be describe by the current Labour leader as a " gimmick " , so why the change of heart ? what be different in the principle of what they be apparently look at now from those of the Rwanda plan for offshore migrant ? be this a change of heart on the policy , and if so , why be they still object to the Rwanda scheme ? be it that they just do not like Rwanda , or that they just do not like the cost of it , in which case , what be the cost of their own scheme ? if they be go to criticise what the Government be do because of a lack of transparency , their potential scheme , which have be deny and then not deny , be completely and utterly opaque . this be a sham , a shamble , a Labour gimmick and a con . it be a feeble attempt to show that the opposition be somehow tackle illegal migration by talk about it , attack the government and vote against every attempt to bring forward practical measure , while have no credible work plan of their own . they need to be call out for it , and I shall be vote against this motion . I will focus my remark on the cost of the Rwanda plan , whether it be go to be effective and whether it be value for money . nearly 18 month ago the Select Committee on Home Affairs state in our report on channel crossing : " the Home Office must provide more detailed costing for its Migration and Economic Development Partnership with Rwanda , include estimate of the likely cost within the current financial year of relocation and probable cost of relocation during the full five year of the programme . " we make those recommendation all those month ago in part because we learn that the then Home Secretary have be require to issue a ministerial direction to the Home Office permanent secretary to implement the Rwanda scheme as he feel there be insufficient evidence of deterrent to enable he to guarantee the policy ' s value for money , which , as the accounting officer , he be responsible for , and to date he have not change his view . that issue and the use of public money for this controversial plan have be a source of contention for many from the get - go , which be why we believe transparency about the cost involve be vital for proper scrutiny and public trust in this policy , yet here we be with what limited information we do have about the scheme ' s cost have dribble out slowly and most recently accidentally via the International Monetary Fund ' s board paper . that be despite question about the cost be repeatedly put by myself and other Committees include the Public Accounts Committee over the last 18 month . the most recent substantive update on cost come in a late - night letter from the permanent secretary to myself and the Chair of the PAC my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) follow that inadvertent disclosure via IMF paper , and we learn that follow the £ 140 million pay to Rwanda in ' 22 - ' 23 there have be an additional £ 100 million in April ' 23 and a furth £ 50 million would be pay in ' 24 - ' 25 , but the deal with Rwanda be for five year and we be yet to discover what the Government have pledge to pay for the final two year of the scheme . the justification , which I have hear again today , be about commercial sensitivity , yet apparently it be not so commercially sensitive that the cost can not be disclose retrospectively via the annual account . clearly there be something here that do not add up and I know that the Chair of the PAC share my view on this : that in other instance it have be possible to have regular update on spend proposal and policy like this . question mark hang over not just the fix cost of the scheme but the per - person cost of send asylum seeker to Rwanda . we know the Government have pledge to pay Rwanda a certain amount for each asylum seeker send there to have their claim process , but again we do not know how much , although it be of interest that the Home Office estimate in the economic impact assessment of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 the cost of relocate a single individual asylum seeker to a third country at £ 169 , 000 , which represent , we be tell , " additional cost incur relative to process an individual through … the current migration system . " we understand that the cost of process asylum claim here in the UK through the current migration system be around £ 12 , 000 . as the Home Affairs Committee point out almost 18 month ago : " Migration , include irregular migration across the English Channel , be an issue on which no magical single solution be possible and on which detailed , evidence - drive , properly cost and fully test policy initiative be by far most likely to achieve sustainable incremental change . " well get some then . I be go to carry on . with a singular yet untested Rwanda scheme swallow up so much Government time and resource it be vital that the Home Secretary be up front about the cost involve . this be about public money be pay to Rwanda by the UK on an issue of great concern to the british people ; it be not private fund be exchange between two company , and as the Institute for Government point out , " good scrutiny really can contribute to good government . " transparency be key to unlock good public policy . it be therefore absolutely right that Parliament ask and get detailed response to question concern the cost of the Government ' s Rwanda plan and administration of the asylum system . this be about Parliament be able to do its fundamental job of scrutiny , hold the Executive to account . I do not have time to ask all the other question I would like to raise which relate to the treaty that have be sign , the new appeal system , the right to legal advice for all asylum seeker send to Rwanda , and whether additional money will be pay by the British Government for all of those , but I hope the Minister will come clean in his wind - up as to the exact cost of the scheme . rise — order . to accommodate all member as good I can , after Sir Robert Buckland , the time limit will drop to four minute . it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who address the motion table in the name of her Front Benchers and come to the meat of the issue in a succinct way . the argument that she have put before the House be legitimate and merit close scrutiny by both her Committee and the Public Accounts Committee , and be the subject of a letter that she jointly send with the Chair of that Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , on 8 December . put my Select Committee Chair hat on , I associate myself with those remark in the spirit of cross - party co - operation . however , Opposition Front Benchers have stumble into what be , frankly , a debate between the Select Committees and the Government . they have miss a trick on this motion . we be now use to Humble Addresses , as they become a fad and a fashion much beloved of the now Leader of the opposition when he be shadow Brexit Secretary back in 2017 - 18 . those of we who be member of that Parliament may not want to be remind of those time . I certainly remember be on the Front Bench as Solicitor General during the great debate on contempt of Parliament that we well remember — I bear the scar on my back . I could simply fold my arm and say that Humble address be very 2019 , and perhaps we have move on , but I will not because a number of past Humble Address motion have relate to disclosure not to the full House but direct to Select Committees . here be the point that we might have reach some compromise on . Select Committees be more than capable , through the good office of their Chairs and Clerks , to hold sensitive information in a confidential way , yet still provide the scrutiny and accountability that , clearly , Parliament be here for . it have be do in the past , and on this occasion my hon . and hon . and learn friend on the Front Bench should actively consider whether commercially sensitive information can be share in a sensible way with the appropriate Select Committees . the right hon . and learn Gentleman make an interesting point . both the Home Affairs Committee and the Public Accounts Committee have ask for information that we would hold confidentially , just to reassure ourselves about the value for money of these scheme . sadly , we have be refuse that information by the Home Office . I know that a letter be send to the permanent secretary . I could not find a reply — the Committee may not have have one — and I suggest that civil servant in the Home Office need to respond with expedition to the Committee to furnish they with information . that be how we could have proceed . the Opposition Front Benchers have miss a trick by not couch their resolution in more specific term , with the consent that I be sure would have be forthcoming from the respective Chairs of the Select Committees . but that be not the motion that we have before we . as deputy Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , let I inform my right hon . and learn Friend and the House that the Committee have some of the most sensitive information available in a private reading room capacity , so there be no reason at all why we should not hold that information . I be hugely grateful to my hon . friend , a parliamentarian of great experience . he be absolutely right to make that point . I urge consideration of that course upon my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) at the Dispatch Box , to consider whether that could be a way forward . when Labour have a policy , it should be outline in the form of an Opposition day motion . when it do not have much of a policy , it rely upon process argument and Humble Address motion . that be what we see today . my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) put it extremely powerfully in his remark a moment ago that Labour be a party still in search of a coherent and cogent approach to this most serious of issue . it be all very well come up with idea that be already be deploy by the Government , or say , " we ' ll do it the same but a bit well , " but that be not up to the level of the event that face we . with climate change and conflict , mass migration of people out of harm ' s way , or indeed for economic reason , be a challenge not just for the United Kingdom but for the entire western world . these challenge face government of all stripe and colour . I be glad to say that it be this Government who , through their arrangement and agreement with Albania , have achieve singular success in the past year in reduce those unacceptable number of small boat come across the channel . it be this Government who be painstakingly work their way through bilateral agreement with key country to speed up the process of return to ensure that we can clear our prison of foreign national offender , rather than have to hold they in immigration facility after the expiration of their sentence . this government be seek , in an honest and realistic way , to answer the question of , " what on earth do you do with individual who have have their application determine , who have fail in their application , but whose country of origin refuse even to recognise they exist ? " I be afraid that be the big question — the $ 64 , 000 question , although perhaps I should adjust that for inflation — that need to be address and face up to . I know my hon . friend the Minister be grapple with that problem , as have his predecessor . there be nothing wrong in law or in principle with seek to work with third country to process asylum claim . I will reserve my remark for next week ' s two - day debate on the Floor of the House , when I will ask that question , but it be interesting that the Rwanda scheme be different from other scheme , such as the australian scheme , in that we be not use UK law to determine these application , but be outsource the whole thing to Rwanda . that sometimes be not fully understand , and I have to say that that have be a bit of a glass jaw , and it be quite break by the Supreme Court in its judgment in November . have say that , we be in a position now where the Government be seek to try and deal with a position , and the opposition be say that even if Rwanda work , they will not do it . I do not think that sort of extreme approach be what the british people want to see , and it be not what this policy debate need . we need an acceptance that what be be look at by the previous Labour Government on third - country solution be the right approach . only by take that particular line will we manage to crack this most difficult of problem . the unworkability and cost of the Rwanda scheme be representative of this Government ' s dysfunctional approach to asylum application as a whole . face with an election this year , and have fail to stop the boat — indeed , the failure be such that 2023 have the second - high number of boat crossing ever — the grand plan be now to embark on a £ 400 million gamble on the promise to stop the boat . that be £ 400 million of taxpayer ' money be effectively lump on one number at the roulette table with nothing other than blind faith be rely upon that the scheme will deal with the problem . what start as distraction tactic as part of Operation Save Big Dog have become central government policy as part of operation save ourselves . I be probably overstate it by say that blind faith be be show in the plan . the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary , the previous Home Secretary and the previous Immigration Minister all seem to have privately have doubt about it in office , and nothing I have hear from those on the Government Benches have persuade I that this be be drive by anything other than desperation . indeed , the Prime Minister be challenge on " Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg " about his time as Chancellor , when he supposedly examine the scheme . in effect , he say of the deterrent effect that it would supposedly have , " we have not try this before , so we might as well give it a go . " his precise word be : " this hasn ' t be try before in our country . it ' s fair to say it be novel . I ' ve be very clear that this be a novel scheme . " I be all for innovation , but £ 400 million be spend on something on the basis we have not try it before ought to be ring alarm bell , particularly when nothing else that this Government have try have stop the boat either . it seem that the Government ' s approach now be , in effect , third time lucky . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I have not get time , sorry . it be £ 400 million at least , and there may be other cost that we do not know about , and that be why our motion be so important . I think that take back control mean an end to hand over million of pound to foreign power without anything come back in return . the Government ' s impact assessment for the Bill state that it be " uncertain what level of deterrence impact it will have " , and give that deterrence be its whole point , there could not be a clear case of the headline - first approach that this Government take on so many thing , which be why , from housing to health to education to the economy , we be in such a mess . in the most optimistic scenario , about 1 % of those who cross the channel can expect to be send to Rwanda — that be if all the numerous hurdle that we have talk about be overcome . will anyone say , " I win ' t take a chance on that 1 % risk " ? of course not ; it be just a giant smokescreen to cover up the Government ' s many failing . those who work day to day in housing asylum seeker do not appear to have much confidence in the likelihood of there be any deterrent effect , either . we can go online and see that Serco , which be responsible for housing asylum seeker in private housing , be still advertise to landlord that it can guarantee rent for up to five year for do so . it would hardly be do that if it think the Rwanda scheme would be a success or any other Government policy in the area be likely to have any effect . I see nothing in the Rwanda agreement that will deliver on the claim be make about it . never before have so much be give by so many for so little in return . when we have record taxation level , public service on their knee and record Government debt , it be right that we challenge and question whether all that expenditure do what it say on the tin . it seem that the Prime Minister agree with Labour ' s approach . I will end with some word from his appearance on " Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg " . when ask about the examination of the scheme , he say : " you should always ask probe question . you should always approach thing from a position of scepticism to ensure that you get value for money for taxpayer . " that be exactly what labour ' s motion seek . the fact that the Government be set to oppose it say everything we need to know about why there be so little confidence that the scheme will deliver . put Rwanda rhetoric ahead of reality be a really poor way to run the country . with that approach , it be no wonder that the Government be run scared of the people ' s verdict . when I first come to the House , under a Labour Government , I be on an immigration Bill Committee . the key difficulty then be people come on aircraft and ferry and , for road haulier , people come in lorry . that be eventually deal with in place such as Dover by put in machinery to look at heat from body , and that stop that trade . this be a profitable trade where inventive people — criminal — look at how they can get people in . they have decide that rubber boat be one way of do so , and our maritime tradition and the treaty to which we have sign up over hundred of year mean it be difficult to deal with people once they have set off to sea . the Government have a plan and a strategy to deal with that . the opposition would have more authority in the debate have they not oppose the plan and strategy but instead shuffle the paper around , ask all these question and bemoan all the cost rather than set out what they would do . of course , the Humble Address want paperwork and more paperwork . government have internal debate and then come to a fix position . the Treasury , the Education Department and the Home Office will have different view . we would expect Ministers to argue privately and then come to a fix position , but if people keep ask for paper to try to find out what those difference be , that will drive those debate underground , into private meeting and on to WhatsApp , which would not mean good government . the fact that the current Prime Minister argue a slightly different point when he be in charge of the money prove that he be do a good job as Chancellor — he be kick the tyre and ensure that thing have be think through . we can see the opposition ' s motion as a substitute for have a policy . it just say that we be rubbish and that they would do thing well , but they do not specify what they would do well . the Government have a policy , and the $ 64 , 000 question be , as my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) say , about those people who come to the UK and can not be return to their country . the ideal thing be to have country - to - country agreement , which be prove to be work — I be glad we have more of they — and be a strand of deal with the issue . however , where we have an Iran , an Eritrea or another country where someone ' s life might be threaten be they return , we need somewhere else for they to go . Rwanda have make it part of its agenda , because it be financially to its benefit , to do deal with country such as Britain to help to deal with the problem . everybody can be a winner if we get there in the end . there be no point in people in this debate say it will not be a deterrent when it have not actually be try and when every time we have try to implement it there have be a range of people to deal with , not least some of the court . the Government be legislate to deal with the concern of our Supreme Court . we have a treaty that be base on international law and we will see whether it work . I hope that when it be prove to work , some of those who be criticise will stand up in this Chamber and say , " actually , you be right . " the Government ' s approach to asylum seeker can at well be describe as a farce . the asylum application backlog persist and be grow . thousand of people have simply disappear into the underground economy , with the Home Office admit that it have lose track of nearly 17 , 000 people . the continue use of hotel accommodation be cost the british taxpayer untold million , while the disgrace Rwanda plan limp ahead — a plan that even the Prime Minister admit be costly and unworkable . it be no surprise , then , that the Government continue to refuse to disclose the full cost of the scheme . when the Prime Minister come into office he promise professionalism , integrity and accountability at every level . one thing be sure : he have fail at every level on all three . we know that the Government have already pay £ 240 million to Rwanda . further money , in the hundred of million , will be pay . it will cost £ 100 million more to operate , with additional cost of nearly £ 170 , 000 per person relocate to Rwanda . give that it cost £ 12 , 000 to process asylum claim in the UK , the cost - benefit of the Rwanda scheme seem non - existent — and that be before one even begin to consider the moral and ethical cost of deport people to Rwanda . the UK Supreme Court find that send asylum seeker to Rwanda would be unlawful , give " substantial ground " to believe that those transfer there could be send back to country where they could face persecution and inhumane treatment . we would do well to remember that accord to the 1951 refugee convention , any person seek asylum have the right to apply for asylum in the UK and remain here until the authority have assess their claim . furthermore , it be also recognise that person flee persecution may use irregular mean to escape and claim asylum . the Rwanda scheme , along with the Government ' s continued criminalisation of asylum seeker cross the channel , amount to a complete repudiation of international law and the universal obligation under which we in the UK be bind to assist those seek safety and security . I have no doubt that the british public will see the Government ' s effort regard the Rwanda plan for what it be : a flagrant , cynical and cruel attempt to force through costly and unworkable legislation , contrary to the finding of the Supreme Court , in a desperate bid to salvage an already ruin reputation . the asylum system in the UK be in crisis . it be precisely due to the continued incompetence of the Government and their Ministers that the crisis have come about and it will persist until a Labour Government be elect to sort out the mess . listen to the debate , I think there may be a complete misunderstanding about the fundamental point of the legislation . it be a deterrent . I could pluck any figure out of the air and if the deterrent effect , together with other measure , be to hopefully reduce to zero the number of channel crossing , that will be money well spend . it be a deterrent . I agree with absolutely every word say by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , a fellow member of the Home Affairs Committee . I do not know how many member present have actually be to the beach in Calais , engage with people and ask for their view on whether this be a deterrent or not . there have be talk about Select Committees , but I , along with my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham and one of the good politician I know , the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee — I hope the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) do not mind I be nice to she in the Chamber — have actually be there . french official who be work on the frontline support this policy . what evidence could be cite to suggest that there be a deterrent effect ? well , as my hon . Friend say , when the policy be announce there be a rush to get over here before it be actually in place . this may come as a shock to Opposition Members , but when we be speak to people on the beach , who be almost universally single male in their 20 , the vast majority of those I , at least , speak to — I stand to be correct — say that they be come here for purely economic reason . they see the street of the United Kingdom as street pave with gold . the only piece of evidence that can be advance by the member of the Select Committee who have actually be to Calais show that this policy will have a deterrent effect and that it will work . there be not a shred of evidence from the opposition that it will not work . my right hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee — I will call she my right hon . friend — be an extremely good politician . as a member of the Committee , I know that the question ask about costing be extremely fair , and I be sure that my hon . and learn Friend the Minister will answer they this evening , just as he have answer many of they when he have appear before the Committee , but I do wonder sometimes when we talk about the principle behind the Bill . I ask the shadow Home Secretary whether the Labour party be consider the use of offshore processing . there be no answer , and we know that that be because Labour be consider it . the Leader of the Opposition have say that he will consider any plan that work . Rwanda will work , so on the basis of that logic , he will have to accept Rwanda . I wonder what Opposition member make of the fact that the austrian and german government be consider process asylum seeker abroad . Denmark , that bastion of right - wing extremism , pass a law in 2001 allow refugee to be move to asylum centre in third country for processing . the EU , which be exactly the organisation on which the Labour party basis itself , indirectly support offshore asylum processing as part of broad effort to stop refugee come across the Mediterranean and — I can not believe I be say this — the bloc have spend not million but billion of dollar to prevent refugee from reach Greece and fund the libyan coastguard to push migrant boat back to north Africa from Europe . perhaps we could ask the French to do it , but I will leave that question hang in the air for my hon . and learn Friend the Minister . to top it all , there be even a UN programme , the emergency transit programme , under which more than 3 , 000 people who be head for Europe be move from libyan detention centre to Niger — a scheme similar to the Rwanda scheme for asylum seeker . every international body support what we be do . they be all spend money , and they all believe that this will have a deterrent effect . the opposition have no policy . this debate be a complete gimmick . the Government ' s policy be the only policy in town , it be be follow by other country , and it will work . I be not sure whether the hon . member for Bury North ( James Daly ) have read the motion , but it be about the cost of the scheme , and it restrict itself entirely to that . essentially , it come down to one issue : transparency . do we believe that our constituent deserve to know how much of their money the Government plan to spend on their shambolic Rwanda scheme , and do we believe that they deserve to see the full detail of the asylum backlog clearance programme so that they can understand how it be possible for the Home Office to have lose track of thousand of asylum seeker ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not . I apologise , but time do not allow I to do so . minister need to be hold to account for an expensive shamble that have send more Home Secretaries than asylum seeker to Rwanda . meanwhile , our border remain in a state of chaos and desperate people suffer enormously at the hand of people smuggler , but here we have a Government duck transparency yet again when it come to the cost of the scheme . what we do know be that £ 240 million have be send to Rwanda already , with £ 50 million more schedule for this spring . we know too that the Home Office have admit that at least two further payment be plan for the next two year , but it will not confirm how much these payment will be . why not ? we also know that Ministers have promise extra payment for every individual asylum seeker send , but again they have refuse to say how much — why on earth not ? presumably they have tell their rwandan counterpart how much they be pay they , so if the Minister be still refuse to disclose those cost in this place , perhaps he can answer why he think the Rwandan Government should know more about how british taxpayer ' money be spend than british taxpayer themselves . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? the hon . Gentleman be aware of the time constraint , so I apologise , but I will not . the Prime Minister and this Government be take the british public for fool — not just over the Rwanda scheme , but over asylum backlog too . it be categorically false to claim that these backlog have be clear . the current overall backlog be almost 100 , 000 asylum case . even so , the so - call " legacy backlog " remain at 4 , 500 case . amidst this chaos , Home Office official have admit that as many as 17 , 000 asylum seeker be now miss from their system and they have no clue where they be . but perhaps the bad thing be that this complete dysfunction no long shock anybody . who could be surprised that asylum policy be in chaos , with a conservative party that have give we eight Home Secretaries in eight year and three fail piece of legislation on channel crossing in three year , and spend vast sum of money on a Rwanda scheme that have be declare unlawful by the high court in the land ? conviction of people smuggler be 30 % low under this government than under the last Labour Government , and return of fail asylum seeker be 50 % low now than they be under Labour . ultimately , if the Government have confidence in their record on asylum or the strength of their Rwanda scheme , they would have nothing to hide , and if they have nothing to hide , they would release the figure request by support the motion today . we be have an interesting and important debate , set in the global context of increasingly large number of people on the move . climate change be drive they forward . the entrepreneurial among they be look for economic opportunity , as my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) mention , but I think it be worth dwell on what our Rwanda scheme seek to stop . what be actually happen to some of the most vulnerable people in the world ? they have criminal gangster come up to they , in country in Asia , the far east and Africa , get hold of they , maybe even coerce they slightly , and say , " you know what ? sell granny ' s farm , because the street of the UK be absolutely paved with gold . you give we five , eight , 10 grand , sell granny ' s farm to mortgage it , and you ' ll be able to make a fortune and look after she . " only when they be on a beach in Calais , with a gangster pointing a gun at they , tell they to get in an overcrowded and dangerous boat , do they understand what we be try to stop . they be be sell a pup by criminal . today ' s debate be not about point scoring and policy , although you would not believe it from listen to some of the stuff the opposition say . we be take action to tackle it . we be say that if someone come to this country illegally , they can not stay here illegally , because otherwise we would be open the window to a demand model for gangster who be strap kid under lorry under Tony Blair and be now strap young man , teenager , woman and child to dangerous boat across the channel . so we be work with France , and with Albania . the Home Office be take a lot of step to tackle what happen far upstream , include where the boat be buy from . we have get a treaty with another country , we be sort out accommodation , and we be sort out the backlog . we be get involve , put more staff in . what do the opposition offer we ? they offer we a highly moralising case . if this have not be clear from my remark , there be a moral case to take every action we can possibly take to stop people get do by criminal . so what do Labour member do ? they vote against it — be it 76 time , 73 time , 83 time ? goodness know . eighty - six . I defer to my hon . friend ' s knowledge . government Members be put practical idea in place , and what be the Labour party do ? change its mind . it have no plan and no idea . its soundbite be so brittle that its member can not take intervention from Conservative Members . we have a work - through plan that be try something different to make sure we handle this in a global context . everybody be face this problem and , with channel crossing already down by a third , a nascent deterrent effect be occur . we be work with the social medium firm to make sure these — rude word — gangster can not sell absolute nonsense on TikTok and Facebook to kid who just dream of a well life . that be the action we be take , and what be Labour Members do ? they be table process motion and ask for detail but , crucially , they will not tell we their plan , because they do not have one . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for secure this debate . this emotive issue affect every one of we , which be why we need to be open , honest and up front with the people of the UK about how we protect our border and tackle migration . I thank the Welsh Refugee Council for work tirelessly with refugee and asylum seeker , in spite of the horrific abuse it face from the far right . the Welsh Refugee Council be a standout example of Wales put into practice its ethos of be a nation of sanctuary , and it deserve our praise . I also thank the sanctuary in Newport run by the gap , and particularly Mark and Sarah for their diligence , passion and advocacy . their innovative idea and compassion in work with refugee and asylum seeker be a credit to they . we be in a financial mess , and the Government need to come clean about the likely cost of the Rwanda scheme to the british taxpayer . it be at least £ 400 million , and that be without a single asylum seeker be send to Rwanda . all this be happen when the cost of live crisis in Newport West and across the United Kingdom continue to hit the poorest hard , yet Tory Ministers seemingly have no concern , no issue and no shame about waste taxpayer ' money on a scheme that simply will not work . be it any surprise that our unelecte conservative Prime Minister think the scheme be not worth the money ? for the first time , I agree with he . this unelecte Prime Minister be take we for fool on the asylum backlog . his claim to have clear it be completely false . as we have already hear , the current overall backlog be almost 100 , 000 asylum case , which be why record number of people be still in asylum hotel , cost the taxpayer £ 8 million a day , 12 month after the Prime Minister promise to end it . the Tories have not even clear the so - call legacy backlog , with 4 , 500 case still unresolved and ten of thousand of case have simply be withdraw by the Home Office . I have some experience of the backlog in my constituency , and it be a very real problem . I have real people in Newport West wait for Home Office decision , such as the ethiopian student who have be wait for a decision on the interview he have in 2021 — he have still not hear . a husband , wife and four child who apply for citizenship in December 2021 be still wait , too . those case be just the tip of the iceberg , and let we remember that those be real people do their good in very difficult circumstance . on the opposite side of the coin , we have official admit that as many as 17 , 000 people be miss . they do not know where they be , and they may well be in the underground economy . what a disgraceful state of affair . can the Minister tell we how many asylum backlog case be clear simply by remove people from the list ? do he know where those individual be ? the motion before the House call for the Home Office to publish the full cost of the Rwanda scheme , as it do for the France co - operation programme , for which funding have be announce up until 2026 . over the last six year , the Tories have let the criminal smuggler gang take over the channel , and they have allow Home Office asylum decision make to collapse . we have record asylum backlog and huge delay , and the taxpayer be have to fund asylum hotel . this be the Tories ' asylum chaos , and they be fail to fix it . labour ' s plan would strengthen our border security and smash the criminal gang network and supply chain , with new power and a new cross - border police unit . we will clear the backlog with new fast - track system and end hotel use , save the taxpayer over £ 2 billion , and we will improve enforcement with a new return and enforcement unit to reverse the collapse in return for those who have no right to be here . that be how we in the United Kingdom can do our bit to help genuine asylum seeker who be flee persecution and conflict , while return those with no right to be here , but we have none of that under the Tories , just more chaos . the soon we get rid of they , the well . I wish to start by emphasise that many asylum seeker be flee abhorrent condition that many of we in this Chamber could only imagine , and it be important that we do not lose sight of those story . however , we must end the current chaotic approach adopt by the Government . the unworkable , unaffordable Rwanda plan claim to deal with 100 people , but we need a proper plan to deal with the 100 , 000 people ' s case stick in the backlog of the system . in my constituency , local resident be concerned about the use of the Holiday Inn to host asylum seeker ; the enormous backlog of case mean that many be still there . my constituent be concerned not only because these hotel cost the taxpayer £ 8 million per day , but because this hotel play a fundamental role in the local community and economy . some of these people have be live in the hotel for year — they have be there so long that they have the right to work and be contribute to a charity in the local community . some have even be baptise in the local church but have be move to other location and once again find themselves uproot in this chaos . for those who have try to settle in the community but whose application have still not be process , this be a terrible failing . tamworth be a beautiful town that many people come to visit . we be proud of our local heritage and landmark tourism site , be it the Drayton Manor theme park , the SnowDome or Tamworth castle , and the Holiday Inn should be use for holiday . this £ 8 million per day would go a huge way in help Tamworth to redevelop its town centre and bolster its tourism economy , and it could be far well spend in revitalise local community across the country . my constituent want to know that those seek refuge and who be eligible have their claim deal with swiftly and fairly , but they also want their hotel back . can the Government explain why it be take so long to recruit the staff need to process application , whom they cut year ago ? that have land the Government in this mess in the first place . I call on my colleague to adopt Labour ' s plan to strengthen our border security , clear the backlog once and for all , and finally bring an end to hotel use . that include recruit the Home Office caseworker to clear the backlog and 1 , 000 staff for the return unit so that those who do not have a right to stay here can be quickly remove . crucially , the plan will crack down on the criminal smuggler gang , through the cross - border police unit and deep security co - operation with Europe . the Rwanda plan have see £ 240 million of taxpayer ' money pay to Rwanda so far , yet not one asylum seeker have be send to the country . the current overall backlog be almost 100 , 000 asylum case , result in record number of people still in the asylum hotel , such as the one in Tamworth , 12 month after the Prime Minister promise to end they . I know that my constituent be concerned about the use of the Holiday Inn to host asylum seeker , which they feel be a waste of money , so when can we have our hotel back ? we still do not have a clear idea of just how much taxpayer ' money be go to be funnel into this broken project . we have weaken border security , a broken asylum system , criminal gang take advantage and risk life , and record level of boat crossing . transparency be fundamental to any good democracy . with this level of taxpayer ' money be funnel into a scheme under which we be yet to see 100 asylum seeker send to Rwanda , the Home Office must publish the full cost of the Rwanda scheme , as well as the full detail of the asylum backlog clearance programme , so that we know how many people the Home Office have lose track of and what decision be be take . I call on my colleague to adopt Labour ' s plan to strengthen our border security , clear the backlog once and for all and finally bring an end to the use of Tamworth ' s Holiday Inn as an asylum hotel . labour ' s plan include recruit the additional caseworker who could deal with this — order . I call Michael Shanks . the last debate we have in this place on this Rwanda plan be such a bizarre moment , as we watch Conservative Members , from one side of the party to the other , lobby one another , with threat to vote against the Bill all quietly dispense with when the moment finally come . today , we seem to have a bit of consensus on the Government Benches — consensus to withhold transparency from the taxpayer as to how much the Government ' s plan be go to cost . I be surprised that we do not agree about that , because surely we can all agree that the public have an interest in know how taxpayer ' money be be spend . I have not yet hear any explanation from Government Members about why not withhold this information be so difficult . perhaps it be because the economic note attach to the Bill have an intriguing section under " cost and benefit summary " that state : " there be no monetise cost or benefit . " the assessment be not even convince the plan will work , say " dependent on the deterrent effect achieve , there could be few individual undertake hazardous and unnecessary journey " . as I say last time we debate the issue , we be unite in want to bring these dangerous crossing to an end , but it be clear the Government themselves do not have confidence that the plan will work , which be why nobody be surprise by recent news report that the Prime Minister be not convince by it either . instead of face up to the Government ' s failure on immigration , we be present with this hugely costly distraction . the chair of the Home Affairs Committee and the Public Accounts Committee have have to drag out of witness the fact that even more money will be spend on the plan in year to come . in December , the permanent secretary at the Home Office tell the Public Accounts Committee that he could not confirm any future funding have be agree for Rwanda , and I hear the Minister say in his opening remark that the Government of Rwanda ask for no money and no money be offer . that mean either the funding for future year be already agree in advance , or we be not send any further money to Rwanda . in either case , it would be easy for the Government to simply confirm one way or another what funding be be send . these be , of course , only the cost we know about . aside from the financial cost , there be a broad cost to this absurd plan : a moral cost . the Home Office ' s own statistic show that at least six out of 10 of those who make the dangerous channel crossing to the UK last year would be recognise as refugee , and would therefore be give asylum in this country , mean the plan will not tackle that particular problem , and it do not deal with the criminal gang who be exploit these vulnerable people in the first place . there be also a cost to Britain ' s stand in the world and a diminishing of the sense that we follow the rule of law . now we simply pass law say that one thing be true , even if it be not . no doubt , a flurry of amendment be be draft as we speak ahead of next week ' s debate . the agreement we have see on the Government Benches today will disappear by Tuesday , when we will see the Bill back before we and it may not even pass . as unpalatable as I find the legislation , I can not understand why there be no transparency for those Government Members who support it . if they believe in this policy , if it be a rock - solid proposal that present good value for money and if the cost be already write down somewhere , as we know they be , why not just tell we what they be ? the least this Government should do today , with no effort whatsoever , be release the financial cost to the public , so that we know how much of our taxpayer ' money be be spend . I pay tribute to all colleague who have take the time to speak today , particularly the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , for Birmingham , Hall Green ( Tahir Ali ) , for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) , for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) and for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) , who make excellent contribution to the debate . it be crystal clear that the money be waste on this fantasy — this fixation — in which member on the Government Benches choose to indulge would be far well spend on proper investment in a cross - border police unit and a security partnership with Europol to go after the criminal gang upstream , smash those gang and stop the boat get in the water in the first place . that be what the Labour party have spend the last year urge the Prime Minister to do and that be what we will do in Government , to help end this Tory small boat chaos . yet the Prime Minister have instead choose to bury his head in the sand and double down on failure . the Rwanda farce be so riddled with absurdity that it be difficult to know where to start . perhaps the most absurd aspect be that the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary agree with the labour position on this whole sorry mess — they be Rwanda sceptic and non - believer . last week , it emerge that when he be Chancellor and during his leadership bid , the Prime Minister privately indicate that he have profound concern over the value for money and the workability of this hare - brain Rwanda scheme . " the deterrent win ' t work " , he write . how extraordinary then that he be now stake his entire premiership on a scheme that he do not even believe in . how humiliating it must be for he to know that his Back Benchers be push he around . they be call the shot . when all be say and do , what have the Tories ' farcical Rwanda fixation deliver ? they have send three Home Secretaries to Rwanda , but not a single asylum seeker . there have be plenty of pie in the sky , but not a single plane in the sky . I mention early the strong contribution from those on the Benches behind I . I be however struggle a bit to understand the logic of the Minister ' s point about the information be request around the cost of the Rwanda plan be somehow commercially sensitive . the Government be all too happy to reveal that they be fork out £ 500 million on pay the french police to puncture dinghy on the beach of Calais . the permanent secretary tell the Public Affairs Committee that the Rwanda - relate cost would be reveal in the account in July . why not just reveal they now ? what be they afraid of ? well , they be clearly terrified of admit that they be blow £ 400 million of taxpayer money on this fail scheme . they should ' fess up and reveal what the real cost be both in term of what it will cost to fly each individual asylum seeker halfway around the world and what it will cost in term of processing and related support . we know that it be at least £ 169 , 000 per asylum seeker , but can they confirm whether it be even high — £ 200 , 000 or more , as be say early ? what have they get to hide ? well , perhaps we know what they have to hide — that this Rwanda plan be unaffordable and unworkable . even if flight take off , they will be about 1 % of the 30 , 000 channel crosse at a maximum . that will not even scratch the surface of the people smuggler ’ business model . meanwhile , we see that : more than 100 , 000 asylum case be unresolved , despite the deceitful nonsense the Prime Minister put out on social medium ; nearly 400 hotel be be use for asylum seeker — a number that have go up not down under this Prime Minister ; and 56 , 000 asylum seeker be languish in those hotel , cost the taxpayer a staggering £ 8 million per day . we need transparency on this . we need transparency around the issue of withdraw claim . astonishingly , they make up one third of the recently process asylum claim that the Prime Minister have be boast about clearing , yet they have not even be process properly . as an exercise in the politic of smoke and mirror , this be surely without parallel . do the Prime Minister and Home Secretary seriously think that nobody would notice ? do they seriously think that they could pull the wool over the eye of the british public ? what an insult to the intelligence of the electorate . they should come clean to the british public , with a full breakdown of the 35 , 000 withdraw claim : who be they ; where be they ; and be they simply reapplye , or be they drift away into the underground economy never to be hear of again ? last summer , the hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) describe that trend as an amnesty by the back door . be he right ? the Minister must come clean on these point . we need a serious plan . we need the end of these headline - grab antic . we need common sense , hard graft and international co - operation , as have be set out in Labour ' s five - point plan for the past year . [ laughter . ] conservative member do not like it , but the fact be that their plan be not work . they need to come clean over these cost . they need to clear this backlog . I urge member from all part of the House to support our Humble Address today so that we can begin the long road back to recovery . oh , how much I enjoy the smile on the shadow Minister ' s face as he wind up . I be delighted to have the opportunity to wind up this debate . my only disappointment , perhaps even slight sadness , be that this motion be more about process than it be about substance . on the substance , what we have not hear from those on the Opposition Benches be the cost of not act . there be the financial cost : the illegal migration cost to the british taxpayer , amount to billion of pound a year , include £ 8 million a day for emergency housing , pressure on public service and more . there be also the human cost , the moral case for our Rwanda policy — I will turn to the speech of my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) in a few moment — and the compassionate case for our Rwanda policy . how many more life must be lose in the channel before Opposition party join we in our mission to end those dangerous journey ? the Rwanda policy be one part of an intensive and focused strategy for tackle illegal migration . as my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) point out , the plan be deliver . small boat crossing be down by 36 % — a reduction that have be achieve even as number rise elsewhere in Europe . we know that there be more to do , and the Rwanda policy will give we a powerful tool to complete this mission . I will turn to some of the Back - Bench contribution , but I will start with the SNP Front - Bench spokesman , the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) . I do not disagree with everything she say . I ' m resign ! the hon . Lady threaten to resign , even as I say that . I know she would be disappoint because I agree with she on this point : she rightly challenge Labour on what its plan be . she be right to ask those question , which have be repeat across the House . my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) be absolutely right to set out that this be a complex and challenging issue . there be no lack of robust scrutiny from he , not least during the course of Home Affairs Committee sitting . he rightly point out the lack of credibility from Labour — that there be no plan or alternative put forward . I look forward to further scrutiny from he , and he rightly say that the motion be a Labour gimmick and con . the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) address the substance of the motion and be credit for that by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) . what she do not set out be what labour ' s plan be in the alternative . my right hon . and learn Friend remind we that this be a process debate , not a debate of substance . he rightly say that when one do not have much of a policy , one rely on process debate and Humble Addresses — how right he be . this be a global issue , and labour ' s one policy be that even if Rwanda work , it would scrap it . my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) set out his experience , and I treat it very seriously not only because he be my neighbour , but because he be an MP with a port in his constituency . he put it well when he say that the motion be a substitute for have a policy , and how right he be . I do not have time to delve into each and every one of the intervention by my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) . he rightly comment that the debate be a gimmick , but he also set out quite seriously the deterrent effect that be part of our Rwanda scheme . my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble set out the fact that some of the most vulnerable people we be talk about be be coerce by criminal gang . she be right to state both that and the moral case for our policy . the Government have a plan — this Rwanda plan — for deter those dangerous journey , but what again be the Opposition ' s plan ? they do not have one . their only report plan be one that would increase the number of asylum seeker to this country , by allow they to make claim from other country . we do not accept that proposition . it would mean take people from safe country where they can already seek refuge from persecution , and there be no way that we could accommodate each and every one of those claim . what be the Opposition ' s plan ? as we have hear during the course of this debate , Labour have vote against our measure 86 time , but we will not be deter . we will do right by the decent , law - abide people of this country , who want and expect secure border and an effective immigration system . when people with no right to be here know that they will not be able to stay , they will stop come . we know the deterrent effect because we have see it with Albania . a year ago the Prime Minister secure the deal with Albania . plane take off and more than 5 , 000 people have be return to Albania . the deterrent effect have work and arrival be down by more than 90 % . it have work with Albania ; it will work with Rwanda . illegal migration cost live . it cost billion of pound a year . we need to end it , we will end it and we will stop the boat . question put . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Tonia Antoniazzi Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam cat Maria Caulfield Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan djanogly Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mike Wood Suzanne Webb the House divide : Ayes 228 , Noes 304 . question accordingly negative . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services that the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing ( high - risk Countries ) ( amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 1306 ) , a copy of which be lay before this House on 4 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Environmental Protection that the draft Biodiversity Gain Site Register ( Financial Penalties and Fees ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 30 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft biodiversity Gain ( Town and Country Planning ) ( Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 30 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Disclosure of Information that the draft Digital Government ( Disclosure of Information ) ( Identity Verification Services ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 19 September 2023 , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Building and building that the draft high - Risk building ( keeping and Provision of Information etc . ) ( England ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 9 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . Petition - Boots Pharmacy closure in Hull North I rise to present this petition , mirror the Boots pharmacy closure petition on my website , currently sign by over 430 Hull North constituent . cut to pharmacy be part of the wide crisis in the NHS , include GP shortage and in dentistry , in the most deprived and leave - behind community . I know that my local people in Hull North be particularly concerned , as be the elderly and family with child , about these closure . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Kingston Upon Hull North , declare that the Boots Pharmacies in Hull North should not be close ; note in particular resident ' concern about lose the pharmacy at 860 Beverley Road and 132 Chanterlands Avenue ; further note that pharmacy play a vital role in alleviate pressure face the NHS and be rely upon by local community . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that the Boots Pharmacies in Hull remain open and that local pharmacy be sufficiently support and easily accessible to resident . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002885 ] Petition - NHS dental appointment in rural area I rise to present a petition on behalf of 2 , 652 of my constituent , who declare their concern about the lack of NHS dental appointment available in rural area such as our in Cumbria , give that 50 % of local child and 64 % of local adult do not have access to an NHS dentist . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , Declares concern for the lack of NHS dental appointment available in rural area . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to increase training place for new dentist , reform NHS dental contract and make it easy to recruit experienced dentist to fill dental vacancy in rural area . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002895 ] Grangemouth Oil Refinery : Energy Security Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) " Bathgate no more , Linwood no more , Methil no more , Irvine no more " sing the proclaimer as they detail the devastation cause by industrial closure and the hardship and emigration that follow . that be in the 1980 as Thatcher mercilessly shut the pit , decimate scottish industry . not just the many individual who lose their job , but entire community and the whole country suffer as de - industrialisation take root . the country have recover but much have still be lose and for some it be irrecoverable , irreplaceable , or both . scar remain and pain run deep . the devastation will neither be forget nor forgive . but be there now to be a new line of " Grangemouth no more " ? Scotland ' s oil refinery stand threaten . its closure would result in the perversity of an oil - produce nation lack refinery capacity . I ask the House of Commons Library for research on oil - produce nation and refinery capacity . there be few nation which be oil producer yet lack refinery capacity . Norway have two refinery , and of those nation which lack a refinery capacity none be in the top 25 oil producer , as Scotland be . instead , they be country which neither produce as much oil as Scotland nor even have a develop economy . they be largely develop nation such as the Congo or Trinidad and Tobago , not a developed and industrial land like Scotland , which now face the absurdity of be a major oil producer yet lack refinery capacity . if closure proceed , Scotland will be get treat like a develop nation : its raw product take for a song and then sell back as a refined product , but at a premium to people and nation . exploitation be what it be call . the Rosebank field and the North sea be to be the saviour of the UK economy , yet Scotland be to lose its refinery and face social and economic hardship as a result . exploitation be what it be . that be what we will inherit if action be not take . oil be first discover in the 1960 and it would have make Scotland one of the wealthy country in Europe , but it be deliberately hide from the scottish people . that be to downplay expectation and diminish ambition . Norway across the North sea have be transform socially and economically by its oil resource , with a standard of living that scot can only look at with envy and a sovereign wealth fund that Scotland can only dream of . yet scot have continually be tell that the resource would soon be go , and in 2014 at the referendum it be not just run out but even an impediment , a drain on an independent Scotland . yet now it be at the heart of the UK ' s economic recovery . although it have be rediscover , what be in it for Scotland ? as have be say , some nation discover oil and make the desert bloom , but Scotland discover oil and be see an industrial desert create in so many of its community , and one could well now be Grangemouth . it be not just absurd but perverse that an oil - produce nation should have no oil refinery capacity . it be more than an economic argument ; it be vital for economic security . War in Ukraine and conflict in the middle east have show the consequence . in the world in which we live , energy be essential and secure all aspect of the supply chain be common sense . let we look at the economic argument and consequence of any closure . the loss and hardship would be significant for thousand , not just hundred , send shockwave through industrial Scotland . the plant ' s workforce be 500 but there be also some 2 , 000 contractor attach to it . moreover , they be skilled job and their loss , as with past industry closure , will impact on future generation . not only have current and past generation benefit from work there , but numerous apprentice be train there , even if ultimately ply their trade elsewhere . we already have a skill gap ; this would worsen it considerably . job loss would be significantly high than those simply at the site . closure would reverberate across industry cluster nearby because of the refinery . if it close , many of they will also be lose . they be in a variety of sector , whether chemical , plastic or other field . that be without even consider the huge number of individual who depend on the site whether for their corner shop , as driver or in other trade , both locally and from more distant part . there be always a multipli effect in any redundancy but , give the pivotal nature of the industry to the country ' s economy and its impact across a swathe of sector , it would be huge . both the town of Grangemouth and all of Scotland would suffer . the knock - on effect would echo across the entire country as industrial closure do decade ago , whether the pit or car plant . Grangemouth ' s refinery be a national asset upon which our energy security and industrial economy depend . that be why it must be retain . there have be a refinery there for a century . it currently provide 70 % of scottish filling station , as well as many in northern England . it be also the primary supplier of aviation fuel for Scotland ' s airport — not an insignificant issue for an island nation with many remote island community . as I have state , energy security demand it . we be seek to transition from a carbon economy , but it must be a just transition and at a pace allow our economy and society to adapt . the cumulative impact of closure might not be the 4 % loss of GDP suggest by Petroineos , but even the 0 . 25 % or 0 . 3 % loss of GDP suggest by the Fraser of Allander Institute would be damaging enough . where be the outrage and anger ? where be the ministerial statement here at Westminster or the call to action at Holyrood ? instead , there have be silence or sanguinity , hope that it just might not happen or , even more disgracefully , quiet resignation to its fate . thankfully , unite the Union and the workforce be strenuously make the case , and I be grateful for their assistance and input . closure be still only potential rather than actual , but the threat be real , and there have to be a balance between cause unnecessary alarm and take urgent action . unless action be take now , disaster will befall Grangemouth refinery and the impact will be grave upon all — worker , the wide community and the entire nation . what need do ? ownership have change over the year , and profitability have be affect by under - investment . no blame can be attach to the current or past workforce . responsibility may also rest with previous owner other than PetroChina and ineo , currently in charge . step can and must be take to address the current profitability and buy time so that a transition can take place both at the site and across our economy . moreover , there be also action that will increase capacity and thus profitability and productivity . that mean link Scotland ' s oil refinery with Scotland ' s oil production . finally , there be the just transition and the need to prepare for the new world . that can and must be do at this site . let we examine those three aspect that must be do . first , there be the need to fix the hydrocracker at the refinery . its current inoperability be impact on profitability . restart it would increase profitability threefold . that be significant , and would allow an extension of life at the plant , even without any additional step be take . it be estimate that it would cost between £ 60 million to £ 80 million to do so , but it must be do . the money must be find , whether from Westminster , Holyrood or the exist business . surely , from all three , finance can be find . it be a small cost for such a huge asset that be essential to not just our economy but our society . after all , there be a moral as well as a financial economy . the price must not be pay by the individual and community who would suffer from its loss . as well as restart the hydrocracker , there should be an increase in capacity and in what be refine . it will surprise many that North sea oil be not refine at the Grangemouth refinery , despite the pipeline for the Forties field come ashore at Cruden bay and be pipeline on to Grangemouth . almost all the product refine at the plant be bring in on tanker from elsewhere . it come in on ship and go away in truck . meanwhile , North sea oil be transport to other refinery , whether in the UK or abroad . that must end . it have always be absurd , but now it be criminal . oil from the Forties field pipeline , which last year move approximately 40 % of the UK ' s oil from the North sea , must be refine at Grangemouth . it require technological and engineering change , but they must be make . as Rosebank come on stream , and as the Forties continue to flow , refining must be at Grangemouth . Scotland be entitle to expect no less from its resource . the Prime Minister have trumpet the necessity of continue to exploit North sea oil , and while I can take issue with the extent and pace of it , I agree with the logic . it be absurd to import oil when we have our own resource . not only be it economic self - harm , but it be environmentally daft to transport it across the sea when it be off our shore . why spew out the significant fume of a supertanker by the hundred of thousand when we can pipe the oil ashore ? to achieve that require ensure that the oil be refine here , which it currently be not . the hypocrisy of the Prime Minister ' s position have be expose by those who oppose development . their argument have legitimacy unless step be take to ensure that the resource be refine here , rather than have the environmental double whammy of transport our product far away for refining and then have those ship cross with other import refined product from elsewhere . the Forties field oil supply must be refine at the site , and the technical and engineering work to achieve that must be do . it be bad enough that ownership of the Rosebank field lie with the norwegian state energy company , but to have that product refine abroad compound the agony and the absurdity . finally , there need to be preparation for the transition from fossil fuel to renewable . step must be take to prepare the site for biofuel , which will be require in the future . the site to refine they need to be establish . it make sense to secure the short - term future of the site by restart the hydrocracker . similarly , extend the refinery ' s capacity by ensure that North sea oil be process there be essential . step need to be take towards that transition , which humanity be require to make for the sake of life itself , not just the planet . but it must be more than just warm word and empty rhetoric ; it require preparation and action . make Grangemouth a future site for biofuel refining must be part of that . in summary , secure the refinery be essential for Scotland , not just Grangemouth . the argument for it be social , economic and environmental , and the case be overwhelming . it be simply perverse that an oil - produce nation should have no refinery capacity , or that an industrial desert be create where a natural bounty should see a country and its community bloom . it be for those reason that I ask the Minister to meet I and worker ’ representative from the site . additionally , and most essentially , will he ensure that these three step be take ? first , will he ensure that fund be find to restart the hydrocracker ? secondly , will he ensure that oil from the Forties field that be pipe to Grangemouth be refine there , and that oil from new development such as Rosebank will also be refine there , negate the environmental harm of the trans - shipment inward and outward of oil ? I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this debate forward . do he agree that the East lothian oil refinery at Grangemouth be a necessity not only for Scotland , but for all the United Kingdom ? it must stay open not in opposition to renewable target , but in partnership with they . yes , I agree with that . my final point be that as we transition , we must ensure that action be take at the site for that new future by ensure a biofuel capacity there . we simply can not have the absurdity of an oil - produce nation lack a refinery capacity , never mind the perversity of the oil it produce be ship across the sea for refining . may I begin by thank the hon . member for East Lothian ( Kenny MacAskill ) for secure this important debate and colleague across the Chamber for join it ? I recognise that news of a plan to transition Grangemouth refinery into an import terminal be undoubtedly a matter of concern for many people . however , I make clear that the Government be commit to ensure continued fuel supply , protect job and create opportunity in Scotland and across the UK . the primary responsibility of my Department be for the energy security of the whole of the UK , include Scotland . on 29 November , I meet the Scottish Cabinet Secretary , Neil Gray , and we agree that both our government would continue to work closely on this issue through forum such as the Grangemouth future industry board . Scotland and the UK will continue to have reliable supply of fuel after the transition , in line with the UK Government ' s commitment to energy security and resilience . before I go into specific , I want to recognise that Grangemouth refinery have be an important asset for the fuel supply of Scotland and the local economy since it open in 1924 . no final decision on the future of the refinery have be make , but the planning for the conversion of the refinery into an import terminal be a commercial decision by its owner , Petroineos . that reflect its view of the economic sustainability of the refinery in the context of expect refining margin , domestic demand projection and international competition . even in this macroeconomic context , the UK and Scottish Governments be work together to understand all the option for the future of the refinery . as the Minister just say , Grangemouth be a vital economic factor for the immediate vicinity , for my constituent in Edinburgh West and indeed for all of Scotland . will the Government continue to support Grangemouth , give its importance to the future success of the green freeport , of which it be a vital component , not least because of its future capability to produce the sustainable aviation fuel on which so many development be predispose ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to champion such opportunity , of which there be so many go forward . that be why , if a decision be make on refining there , I believe that would be countermand multiple time over by the opportunity in issue such as SAF , which she mention . Scotland and that area have such a role to play in deliver and continue the UK ' s global leadership in cut emission . we recently celebrate the fact that we have halve emission — we be the first major economy on earth to have do so — and of course go forward we be ambitious than any other major economy on earth . Scotland have such a vital role to play in that . my right hon . friend make an excellent point about the importance of the job at Grangemouth and the skill that have be develop over the year — this year , it be 100 year since it first come on stream . do he agree with I and most of the oil and gas industry , which be adamant that the skill , technology and supply chain that supply not just the Grangemouth refinery but the whole North sea offshore industry be vital for manage not just the energy security of today but the energy transition of tomorrow ? my hon . friend be a great champion of those worker in the oil and gas industry . we now have an integrated energy industry . he may have see the recent research suggest that 90 % of those currently employ in oil and gas have transferrable skill to the green transition , in which we can positively expect to see many more job in future if we maintain the strength of that industry today . that be why it be so disappointing that some opposition party oppose new licensing of oil and gas when that be vital to maintain those job and that capability . in that respect , the Alba party be more constructive than other sit on the Opposition Benches . we be work closely with both the company and the Scottish Government to ensure a manage transition of the site , support its worker and ensure that Scotland ' s fuel supply remain resilient . petroineo ' s plan will ensure that the Grangemouth site can maintain Scotland ' s fuel supply through import . adapt the infrastructure to accommodate import in large tanker , particularly of diesel at Finnart on the west coast of Scotland , will ensure that the import terminal have great flexibility and maintain robust fuel security . I recognise that consumer may be worry that increase the UK ' s reliance on import fuel product could increase the price they pay at the pump . I want to provide reassurance that this conversion be unlikely to drive up the price of petrol and diesel for the scottish consumer . fuel price be mainly drive by international petroleum product market and exchange rate , and import into other site such as Clydebank be already competitive in the scottish market . I also want to acknowledge that the announcement of the conversion will be concern to the refinery ' s employee and their family . we remain in close contact with the Scottish Government to mitigate impact on job and the local economy . as part of our commitment to level up , the UK Government be already support the Falkirk Council area through the UK share prosperity fund . its allocation of more than £ 6 . 1 million will deliver a range of intervention that support local business , community , people and skill . we be also support Falkirk Council with £ 40 million of UK Government investment through the Falkirk city and regional growth deal , which be support a range of locally drive project that will create high - value job to help boost the local economy . we be work with the Scottish Government to deliver the Forth Green freeport , which cover the area . the freeport aim to drive a transition to net zero by 2045 by attract up to £ 6 billion - worth of investment and create approximately 50 , 000 job , generate an estimate £ 4 . 2 billion in gross value add in the first five year . the Minister be give a comprehensive reply . the Forth Green freeport be really important . he mention that he have be in discussion with the Scottish Government and other in the Grangemouth area . will he also make a direct plea to the freeport to make sure it be fully involve in any potential reinvestment in the facility at Grangemouth , which have be part of the industrial heritage and the industrial scene in Scotland for a very long time ? it would be a very valuable contribution if the Government could make such an intervention . as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , through contract for difference and many other policy announcement from the UK Government , we be drive enormous growth in job in the green sector . we expect they to grow to 480 , 000 job by the end of this decade . as I say , as a global leader in decarbonisation , Scotland , and that area in particular , have an enormous amount to offer and there be huge opportunity come forward . we will publish next year a green job plan , work with industry to identify the pressure point and the opportunity go forward . the Government remain absolutely committed to support the North sea oil and gas sector . the conversion of the refinery into an import terminal be not expect to impact significantly on North sea production . that be because only a very small amount of oil refine at Grangemouth currently come from the North sea . indeed , since the start of 2022 , Grangemouth have receive on average less than 10 % of its supply from the North sea via the Forties pipeline , which the hon . member for East Lothian refer to . this North sea crude would be make available to the open market via the terminal at Hound Point , alongside the rest of the Forties blend production . I can also confirm that there will be no impact on gas supply . I assure the House that the Government will continue to back North sea production by grant licence for new project , such as the Rosebank field development . development such as Rosebank will continue to strengthen our energy security , support the transition to net zero , and create new job and opportunity . Rosebank , for example , be expect to be significantly less emission - intensive than previous development , which will help the UK to reach its ambitious target for net zero . its operator , Equinor , estimate that it will produce oil at around 12 kg of carbon dioxide per barrel , compare with an offshore production average of more than 20 kg of carbon dioxide per barrel . so it be already a much more efficient production . if electrification be to go ahead , it would be significantly low again . in addition , the Rosebank project will provide investment of £ 6 . 3 billion in UK - base business , support around 400 UK - base job , and add around £ 24 billion to the UK economy across the project ' s lifetime , accord to its operator . yet that licence find itself oppose by the Labour party , even if it support job and help we to green the basin . I want to finish by reiterate to the House the Government ' s commitment to back the North sea oil and gas sector to protect our energy security , attract investment , and create opportunity for community in Scotland and across the UK . it be a decline basin . it be expect to fall , with new licence , at 7 % a year . new licence be not part of increase production , because we will not have increase production . it be about manage the decline and do so in a way that bring forward development such as Rosebank with low emission than the alternative . that be why it be the right thing to do for the environment , however counterintuitive that might seem . it be also the right thing to do for job and for the maintenance of the capability for the long term as we go through the transition and the green economy grow in the freeport as well as elsewhere . the UK Government will continue to work closely with the Scottish Government on this issue to ensure that when the time come , there be a just transition of Grangemouth into an import terminal — if that be the decision make — and to ensure that fuel supply for Scotland and the UK be maintain . the Government will also continue to support economic development in the local area to ensure that there be a just transition for the workforce . I look forward to continue to engage with member , and with the hon . member for East Lothian in particular , on this vitally important issue . question put and agree to . House adjourn .