the Minister shake his head , but if we have shut down all that capacity — if we can not generate the electricity ourselves — we will have to get it from other place . there be phenomenon call wind drought , which can go on for very long period . what be we go to do when the wind turbine be not turn and the sun be not shine during a very cold spell in the middle of winter ? we have one or two close scare this winter . the generate margin that we use to enjoy have go . the great risk of accelerate the decarbonisation of the electricity system be that there will be more appeal for voluntary or compulsory restraint from industry , because industry be the hide customer that be shut off when we be short of electricity , or we risk more brownout or even blackout . that not impossible , so where be the datum that the Minister be place so much confidence in that show these forecast to be wrong ? I be not make they off my own bat — there be plenty of people out there make they . that bring I to the final brief point I want to make . I understand the logic that the Minister explain in his letter to I . I absolutely share that ambition , but the question be how quickly we can get there . at the moment , tidal power produce almost nothing as a proportion of our electricity requirement . it be also intermittent , by the way : four time a day , there be a period during which it do not generate anything and we need to replace that supply with other thing . the real challenge be how we get to the objective that the hon . Gentleman and I share in a rational way that carry the british public with we . it be noticeable that what people be complain about most be the price on their electricity bill . today , the constraint cost , balance cost , infrastructure cost and import cost that I mention make up perhaps 50 % of domestic electricity bill . if that figure be wrong , let the Minister produce some figure of his own that explain what proportion of consumer ’ bill arise from all those factor , because it be not explain . there be no transparency on our electricity bill . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about the objective of decarbonisation , we be not go to get there at all if we lose the public — if the light start brown out or go out , and we find that we can not meet demand . to some extent , we be pile up that demand by decarbonise transport and other part of the system , include decarbonise building heat through heat pump . the demand for electricity will rise , but our capacity to produce it reliably at all hour and in all condition be be reduce . on the question of import and export , we might become a net exporter of electricity , but perhaps the hon . Gentleman can explain how the price at which we be export compare with the price at which we be import . the difficulty be that we will be import when the wind be not blow or the sun be not shine , and it be likely that the wind will not be blow across the entirety of the North sea , so we will be import fossil fuel - generate power at a very high cost to compensate for the fact that we have get rid of our own gas production and gas - fire power station . I be not sure that situation will be very good . if the hon . Gentleman would look at the Arup report on the Tarchon interconnector , which will come into my constituency under the present plan , he will see that that interconnector will not actually contribute very much to security of supply , but will be use almost entirely to export when there be too much wind . it will export at below the strike price because there be too much wind and it will export at a loss , and the cost will finish up on the bill of the british consumer . so the british consumer be pay for all the investment , pay for the strike price , pay for the infrastructure and then pay to subsidise the export to the Germans , who will be the beneficiary of all this investment . I appeal to the Minister to just read the Arup report and look at this . that be why I ask about the offshore co - ordination support scheme work that have be do . I be not go to ask for the impossible and ask he to revive the OCSS , but I would like from he an assurance that the work ESO have do will not simply be throw away and waste . please can he assure the House that that work will be incorporate into the spatial plan that ESO say it want to produce ? some very interesting innovation come out of that work , but there be also a lot of work discredit the long - term viability of Norwich to Tilbury and , look on a different timeframe — in the long term — that could produce a much more viable alternative than be currently on the table . there be still work to be do on that , but I have no doubt that Fintan Slye will want to do that work as part of his project for the Government . I would like to know that the Minister be go to support the holistic approach to which the Secretary of State refer , because Norwich to Tilbury be certainly not the product of a strategic approach to electricity grid upgrading . we need a much more strategic approach , and I be look for that from this government , but it certainly will not come from this Bill .